ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u1	Good morning, again. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. Before beginning the development of the agenda, and after the information I could access today morning, it seems to be confirmed that it is a crime of macho violence that occurred yesterday in Chapel; therefore, I ask all of you, all who accompany us here today, that we keep a minute of silence. [[All members of the House, stand up, keep a minute of silence.]] [[Applause]] Changes in the development of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u2	We enter the development of the agenda, and first I'm telling you some changes in it that basically consist of which we will now begin with the request for the commission of inquiry; then we will proceed with the two appearances. In the afternoon, the motions, which we shall vote on, depending on when the morning shows are over; it will be at six and a half o'clock, around that hour, when the votes will take place. Then we will discuss a non-law proposal, and then we will discuss two interpellations, which are from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in particular commitments made in the local Covenant and an interpellation to deal with problems related to violence in sport. These are the changes that will be going on for today. We start with the development of the agenda. Application for the establishment of an investigation commission, on a proposal from the parliamentary groups of En Marea and the Galego Nationalist Block, on the causes of the railway accident in Angrois, as well as on the safety conditions in the high-speed rail network in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u3	To begin with this proposal, you have, first of all, the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to Mrs Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u4	Good morning, gentlemen. I would like to begin today with verses from Rosalía that were in principle dedicated to the victims of Angrois, but that we also want to dedicate today to a new victim of this macho violence, of this macho terrorism, which makes us desolate: "Those who have a reputation for being honored in the village / they stole me so white that I had; / they threw me out in the galas of a day, / the whipped me in strips. / I was dishonored, they made a lot of life, / they made a bed of toxos and woods; /–Save me, oh, judges!, I scream... / Toleria! / They made fun of me, they sold justice. /–Good God, I helped, I cried, I screamed / Inda... / so loud that I was, good God did not hear me." These verses form part of this known poem of Rosaly, "Justice by Hand." Indeed, in Rosaly's work justice is a cross-cutting issue, which clearly appears as an ethical challenge and as a political challenge. And today, precisely, it is the demand for justice that it brings, the cause of it, that we ask again in this House that we constitute a commission of inquiry. A research commission that asks for victims, also calls for an independent investigation commission, but they believe it is important that political responsibilities be settled, and I believe, and I say it on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block, that we have an ethical and democratic debt to the victims of the accident, but that, above all, this investigation commission should serve to make us know the truth, so that there is justice and that there is reparation. Because if you, ladies and gentlemen, are not going to support this initiative today, if you had sat for a moment to listen to the victims, I think you would shake your heart by listening to your story. Because they're not asking for revenge, they're not asking for anything that's not normal, but really what they're claiming — since the dignity of what they've been doing for the last three years and since that strength of knowing that they're only looking for truth and justice — what they're asking of us, is that today we walk hand in hand with them. They don't just want us to tell them that we share the pain, but, above all, that we will spare no effort until we know the truth and, above all, until we assume responsibilities. And above all, let us make the political decisions that are necessary so that never again in our country will an accident of these characteristics happen again. I want you to think that today we're not only talking about investigating everything related to the accident, but we're also talking about investigating what the safety conditions of the railways in our country are. And I believe that after having had the second largest accident in the Spanish State, Galicia's largest railway accident, after two railway accidents in Galicia with deaths in less than three years, we have an obligation, as Members and Members, to set up this commission and take a step forward. Because we're also seeing that when the victims get out of this fence that created the People's Party and the Socialist Party, the truth is going to open up. How long have we been told in this Parliament that there was an independent committee in Madrid? Well, the victims had to travel to Europe. By the way, I take advantage, too, of recognizing the work that the representative of BNG Ana Miranda did in this work, and for the European institutions themselves to recognize that this report was addicted, that it was a report that was not independent, because they did it to the same ones who had responsibilities in Adef, Renfe, and therefore that report was not of any kind of validity. I remind you that for a long time that was the official excuse to prevent an investigation commission from being constituted. So we ask ourselves, what are the lords and ladies of the PP and the lords and ladies of the PSOE afraid of? What's so strong that you have to hide so that having a majority of parliamentarians deny there's a commission of inquiry? Why are they afraid that we can really move forward in this Parliament? I don't know, maybe you're afraid that if you know your lies, the lies of that independent technical commission, the lies that you know you've been breaking the railway safety regulations, that you've opened an AVE that turns out it wasn't AVE, and that this can therefore be a deceptive advertising crime, that European railway safety regulations have been breached. Maybe they're afraid they've discovered that they haven't evaluated the risk of political decision to withdraw the fair ERTMS in the most dangerous curve of all the plot in our country, or I don't know, honestly, what you're afraid of if they're so sure there's no kind of political responsibility. The constitution of this commission of inquiry is legal, it is a debt we owe to the people who died in that accident, to the victims, and a debt to all the people in this country who want to know the truth and who we want there to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u5	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u6	...justice. But also, ladies and gentlemen, it is the necessary step for the victims to find a real protection and for us in this country to say that we are up to the circumstances. Over the past four years, since the accident, the victims have demonstrated their dignity that they are up to. I ask them today, before voting and pressing the red button, they really think they'd vote if they were some of the 218 people on the Alvia train. Are you sure they'd vote no or their conscience would make them have to vote yes today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u8	Good morning. A greeting to the representatives and representatives of the Alvia Victims Platform, who have been demanding what by themselves should give them governments worthy of such a name, politicians worthy of such a name. As well as having to fight for fourteen years the families of the Yak-42 victims, victims also of the same political party that hides corruption in dark spaces. Or the victims and family members of the Valencian subway, who have to fight, too, because they're clear about what happened there and because they're clearing up their responsibilities. The same ones responsible for what happened in the subway of Valencia and the Yak-42, who were for years in government responsibilities for the humiliation of victims' families and for the humiliation, in general, of our citizenship. He said a newspaper chronicle recently: "When the spokesman of the organization, Jesus Dominguez, took the floor, the House changed." —referred to the European Parliament— "Only three minutes short to summarize to the European representatives the extensive catalogue of irregularities and non-compliances in which the Spanish authorities suffered before and after the accident. They denounced the absence of a correct risk assessment during the modification of the Ourense-Saintiago line plot, the lack of information to victims during searches leading companies involved in the claims - Renfe, the Adif and the Ineco-, the disconnection of the automatic braking system ERTMS before the corner curve and the misleading advertising of the supposed high-speed line. "If the European Railway Safety Directive were complied with, the accident would not have happened, avoiding more than 80 deaths." "We were victims," said Jesus, "of a very serious accident for non-compliance by the Spanish State, we need to open an independent new investigation. When we need a state we only have Europe," said Dominguez. "The face of the Director General of the European Railway Agency, Joseff Doppelbauer, has turned towards the victims with an unbelievable look and has returned to the Spanish Government and the CIAF" (the Railway Accidents Research Commission) "recalling that the Spanish body's investigation "has failed to meet the requirements", he pointed out before listing the list of detected anomalies. "The causes of the problem have not been investigated, there have been no answers, there are no references to risk assessment and there is no evidence of the application of the interoperability directives. The accident was not the subject of a thorough investigation, as the directive requires," he said. That's what the chronicle said, and I think this sums it up perfectly. I only disagree on a question of the chronicle, in which the lords of the People's Party don't draw the colors from them. It looks like this doesn't make any colors out of them. In short, high speed was announced in December 2011; in 2013, July 24, an accident with 80 deaths; a change in the original project that removes the ERTMS where the accident occurred, with which everyone recognizes that the accident would not have occurred. That ERTMS is withdrawn on 23 July 2012. In the face of the downside of security, no measures are taken to cushion this security drop, all the risk is left to the driver, without a second level of protection. Ourense's chief mechanics' alerts are dismissed, which warned of the danger of the sudden speed transition that was to be made; danger that could be eliminated with a simple ballast. Reports about similar areas, such as the Puertollano curve, are not taken into account. They refuse to set up a commission in the German Parliament and in the Congress of Members; one here because they say that they have no competence in the German Parliament and another because, according to Rafael Hernando – that [...] they have as spokesman in the Congress of Deputies – it is unfortunate to demand this commission of inquiry. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] The CIAF is declared by the European Railway Agency not independent and does not go to the bottom of the matter. No one here resigns. You don't cooperate with the investigation. Adif's risk management analysis is delivered three years late, discus per sneeze. There's no God here. Shame on you! Shame on you, gentlemen of the People's Party! And it's not strange, you deny the collaboration of the victims, deny the collaboration to clarify the truth, they cover themselves between you, and it's not strange, because you have a story, a black story with the Yak-42, with the subway of Valencia, a black story also with the mortgage legislation, which they also had to receive from civil society that has been fighting for years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u9	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u10	...I'm oxygenating it from Europe. And you'll come here to vote that no, vote that not the truth, shielding yourself in lying excuses. Here you can do and there must be an investigation commission. The regulation states that any commission of inquiry may be made on a matter of public interest. But it's more, they don't do it here and they don't do it in Madrid, and they've done everything they've done undercover, obstructing, missing about the victims, because you have a lot to hide. If you want to get rid of that black story that you have in the past, you, the ones here, the ones here who also participated in this whole Paris, not those in Madrid... you're the People's Party, they're the ones who participated in this Parisian...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u12	Each one of you is responsible for this hunchback, this lack of respect for the victims, this cover up a lobby that is running in dark spaces...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u13	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u14	...to your foolish mind. It is a democratic necessity, of transparency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u15	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u16	...which is the commission of inquiry in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u17	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u18	...and let them discover the clarification of the truth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u19	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u20	You're responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u21	Thank you. Mr. Sánchez, I ask you to remove the expression you have alluded to by the Congress spokesman, I ask you to remove it. That expression I ask you to remove it. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, I'm asking you to pull her out, and if you don't, I have to take her off. No, don't answer me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Answer the question I'm asking you. Do you take that back? Don't you take it off? [[Refusal.]] You have a call to order. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] He's retired from the presidency and he's got a call to order. No, you're talking, you're talking... No, no, it's no longer in the use of the word. [[Murmurs.]] I'm gonna have to call him back to order. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It doesn't work anymore. Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u22	Good morning to all of you. The truth is, the date of July 24, 2013 is recorded, I think in everyone's memory. We are reminded — at least I am — of what I was doing the moment I met the news of the most serious accident. I was out of Santiago, but I remember perfectly, and at last -- I suppose everyone -- for moments of rape, concern and pain, for the personal damage caused by that accident, which only maybe later was tempered by the satisfaction, by the behavior, not only of the people of Anguilla and, in general, Santiago de Compostela, but also by the public services and the volunteers who came there to try to minimize the damage caused. As a matter of fact, there are two procedures going on from there. BNG's spokesman demanded justice. I think it's by law that this is so, and the judicial procedure is just for that. The Provincial Court ordered that the investigation be resumed at the instructional stage to extend the scope of the investigation, to determine the responsibilities just in relation to ERTMS, to make an integral assessment of the risk of the line and, finally, to see if this was normative and technically necessary. We are in favour of this being done, that it should be completed perfectly, and the sooner this judicial investigation is better, because it will ultimately allow it to determine the criminal responsibilities, if they exist, in all its amplitude. And, secondly, there is a technical investigation — it has also been mentioned here — an investigation of the accident by the Railway Accidents Research Commission of the Ministry of Development, questioned since the European Railway Agency rightly because that commission does not seem to retain the characteristics of independence of its components in relation to the infrastructure companies and public companies responsible for the design and supervision of the works. It is good for us, too, to say this to us from the European Railway Agency. We believe that technical research must be reopened to ensure its independence and that we can all finally know well, with an essential technical expertise in this as in other accidents, not only of a railway character, which were the elements that ultimately produced the concatenation of events that gave rise to this accident. And that expertise should also be used to improve safety on railway lines across Spain and make transport through this medium safer for everyone. So there are two ongoing investigations that must determine the criminal responsibilities — if any — that are behind this accident and that must allow them to define the technical improvements in security to minimize the risk that another such accident may occur. Both actually respond to the material request of the investigation commission that we are determining here whether or not to create. But finally another step in this research is missing, which is the determination of political responsibilities, and this is done, in any case, through the committees of inquiry own to parliaments; political responsibilities that have to go beyond the penalties, which go beyond technical assessments and which have to do with matters of a more general nature in which political decisions are made. It seems to us that it is not in the Galician Parliament where this work must be done. We know the need for the victims' and victims' families to have full satisfaction and to be able to have a convincing account of the responsibilities behind this accident, but we also know that Parliament in Galicia is not the right instrument to advance knowledge about the causes of the accident. The Galician Parliament, for other committees which have already taken place here, has no capacity for the relevant reports to be issued in time and form, for the necessary witnesses to take place and for the commission of inquiry to function in an operational way and to produce useful knowledge. And that is a basic question, because if we all decide to set up this research commission in the Galician Parliament, we would certainly be feeding on the frustration of the inability to move the investigation forward on this subject for a few months. Can we set up the investigation committee? We can believe it. Would it be useful to determine any political responsibilities? In our opinion, it would not be useful in the Galician Parliament, because the appropriate scope for the functioning of the commission of inquiry is not this, it is the Congress of Members, who has full competence over these issues and who has the ability to demand that the technical, political, business, of all kinds, etc., who have to explain what their decisions may be. This Parliament has no obligation to attend and would only come with a strictly voluntary character. In spite of this, we believe that the demands of the victims and their families need a complete satisfaction that has not occurred today; neither is there a result of judicial investigation nor is there an adequate result of technical research and no political investigation commission has been created. There are some groups — which are the ones who put this committee forward — who consider this to be the right place, and we are not going to oppose that criterion. We just don't share it. But you all know that the responsibility for setting up this committee of inquiry today in this Parliament will not depend on our group. If our group voted in favour, this would not ensure that the committee was created; if it voted against, it would not guarantee that it was not created; if we abstained, the result would not influence the end. It's the People's Party who has the decision, it's not us. We are going to be consistent with what I am expressing here in our vote, but in any case you know that it is the People's Party who has not only the decision on the commission of inquiry, but also about its functioning, its conclusions, its organization and all aspects of it. This is a majority regime, and the majority regime works like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u23	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u24	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Let me say that health in a special way, with the deepest respect, in my name and in the parliamentary group, the representatives of the victims of the Alvia train who today have the kindness to accompany us in this plenary session and also to all the families of all the victims of this accident. Before entering the content of the proposal, this Popular Group wants to once again express our solidarity with the victims and families of the victims of this accident. This solidarity I would like to do not only collectively as a group, but also individually, because I, like so many other Greeks, had and have personal friends among the victims. I would also like to transfer our respect, affection and understanding to them. How many of us have lost in a tragic accident one of the most dearest beings for us, for you, we find no consolation, say whatever is said, no peace of mind. The slow pace of time and the truth — also the truth — help us to keep living, to continue to draw and to have that relief that gives us courage to continue. I also want to start by reiterateing that the interest of this People's Group is clear that the causes of this accident are fully clarified as deep and as quickly as possible. We believe that it is a fair demand of the victims, of the family of the victims and of the whole of the Greeks, that we want to know what happened and that they want, as a result of this investigation, if they take the appropriate steps to prevent it from happening again. But to gain this knowledge it is necessary to do it in the proper forums, in those who have competence for it, with depth and rigour, fleeing from demagogic and partisan uses. The People's Group agreed for the fourth time that debate is being held in this Parliament on the setting up of an investigation committee on the accident in England. We accept all the debates, but we reiterate the arguments we have already defended in this House, because we understand that this is not the right forum. In the field of competence, Galicia was responsible for helping the victims, and did it diligently and properly, and as all of the Greeks we are very proud and grateful of the people who worked and collaborated in this care to the victims and their families: health, safety, emergency personnel and the same neighbors. They were all up to it and did a great job, more than laudable, I'd say excellent. And that's when the powers of the Union ended. Out of the question of emergencies and health care, Junta has no competence over the accident. The aspects of rail safety, infrastructure planning, works, rail transport, road maintenance or traffic management, among others, are all of State competence. According to the already established doctrine of the Council of State, the Heads of State Administration do not respond to the autonomous parliaments, and those responsible for the General Administration of the State and its agencies respond politically to the General Courts, so we believe that this commission of inquiry would have little capacity to investigate this accident, as has been said earlier. If the reason for you to come to this House now — for the fourth time, as I said — the request of a committee of inquiry is the report drawn up by the European Railway Agency and the demands made by the Eurocamera for the opening of an investigation that meets the requirements of independence and examines the weaknesses of research carried out on the English accident, I have to say clearly that we are in favour and share with the Eurocamera the needs of an independent report. We are prepared, and we propose for the third time, to adopt an institutional statement by this Parliament requesting the drafting of this report with the criteria of complete independence proposed by the European bodies. I would like to remind you that the first reaction of the President of the Party and of the Union to the opinion of the European Railway Agency was to demand an independent, incontroverted and unquestionable report on the accident. And I say the third time because I have already proposed the People's Group, on 12 July, the adoption by the plenary of an institutional declaration by which an independent investigation was requested about the Angois accident, although, unfortunately, that statement did not go forward as a result of the veto of the parliamentary groups of the BNG, AGE and Mixed at that time. Our spokesperson Pedro Puy, a few days ago, I proposed for the second time to these opposition groups to make this joint statement, and today, for the third time, I make that same proposal again. From the People's Group we are prepared to resume this institutional statement, with the incorporation of Eurocamera's recommendations, which proposes the drafting of a new incontroverted and unquestionable technical report that provides certainty and truth to the victims. We would like to read that statement during this same plenary session. It's still time for us to make this institutional statement, it's up to you. Furthermore, I would like to remind you — if you have mentioned — that the Parliament's Rules of Procedure take up the possibility that one third of the Members will ask for and approve the opening of an investigation commission, so that if the opposition groups want to open this commission of inquiry, they could do so without the votes of the People's Group, Mr PSOE. Beyond the parliamentary route, the accident is being investigated at the courts, so the responsibilities must be addressed in that framework, and the technical responsibilities in the framework of the relevant independent technical committees. Once judicial investigation and technical conclusions are known, it will be time to demand, if so, political responsibilities, but always in the appropriate forum. We believe that the deepest research that can be done is the judicial or the independent technical commissions, so we insist, over and over again, on this path to reaching the truth about the causes of the accident. Furthermore, the judges — if they consider it appropriate, as we are seeing — can request all independent reports they consider necessary for the clarification of the accident. The experience, in all known cases, is that judicial investigations have come much further than any parliamentary investigation commission. I think we have to let justice go. The People's Parliamentary Group understands and shares the pain of the victims and their families, and what we have asked for from the very first moment on is that it comes to the end in clarifying all the causes that caused the accident, so that our greatest collaboration. And I would like to finish by repeating our support for an independent, incontroverted and unquestionable report on the accident. We believe it's the most effective to help achieve the whole truth. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u25	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Replica roll. First of all, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I really regret that today both the People's Party and the Socialist Party are losing the opportunity for us to do something really useful in this Parliament. Justice provides me with judicial and criminal responsibilities, it is their role, and our role as Parliament is to manage political and administrative responsibilities. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a judicial investigation has absolutely nothing to do with which this Parliament may or may not set up an inquiry commission. This is a political decision, and the problem is not the competence of this Parliament, the problem is that the People's Party refuses to have a political inquiry into Alvia's responsibilities. They have always voted against here, but in the Congress of Deputies, which in theory has all the competences, the People's Party has also voted against. The current Minister of Development, when he was mayor, voted in favour of setting up a commission of inquiry, and now that they have the power to create that commission, they refuse to break down and try to tell us here that they are now in favour of an independent investigation into the state. Just a few days ago, Mr. Feijóo met with the Minister of Development, why didn't you file this complaint? Now they come here to tell us that the PP cannot approve anything in Parliament because we are against it. But what kind of manipulation is this about reality? This is not receipt, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. We, of course, believe that, if there are no committees of inquiry, if there is no political control over governments, there is no democracy, and that is what is happening in this Parliament today. You, in practice, have decided to disable this Parliament. If it's going to have such little impact, what's the problem with creating it? Let's see what impact that investigation commission has, don't put the wound before the sale. Let's make a work plan and really believe a political tension to know the truth, and then evaluate what was the scope of that research commission. But they do not devalue Parliament because it is to devalue the institution that represents the Greeks and the Greeks. Why, ladies and gentlemen, has this Parliament created an investigation into the Prestige? Why has a commission been set up years ago to study how we wanted railway development in Galicia? There are thousands of background issues that are of interest to the country, but to those who have no competences, which have been analyzed and which we have talked about. We, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, today we want to give them the opportunity to vote in conscience. The Rules of Procedure allow the vote, if requested by two parliamentary groups, to be kept secret. I'm telling the Marea Group we're asking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u28	...that vote, and I would ask, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, which today do not think of which are the guidelines of their party, which today do not think of which are, indeed, the orders given to them by their leaders, but rather think in conscience if they think it's more worthy that this Parliament gives a door to the victims of Alvia or that we open a door to hope that there will be truth, justice and reparation. It's in your hand, it doesn't depend on any direction of any party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u30	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr. President of Parliament, I called Mr. Hernando a blue shirt. Did they say anything to Mr. Hernando after he accused of being miserable to those who were asking for an investigation commission? Did they tell you something about the channels of his party? Well, I think those who deserve a call of attention, a call to order, are you. [[Applause]] If for something we can define the position of the People's Party and intervention right now is hypocrisy. Hypocrisy: We want to clarify, we're next to the victims, we thank the victims, we have people affected by the accident. But what have they done in the nearly four years since the accident, Mr. Fernández Prado? What did they do? Because you have a past, not only because of what I was saying about the Yak-42 or the Valencia Metro, is that to you the European Railway Agency has just told them that the technical commission they created was not independent, nor did it try to detach the truth, which was a Parisian to obstruct the knowledge of the truth, did not resign anyone and did not demand the cessation of anyone. You have no credibility here to come up with any proposals. They follow the proposals that we always defend the same. You don't have credibility now to come and ask for institutional statements to continue with the eternal pariepe where you are. Fourteen years have been keeping that same match with the Yak-42, and now they want to get the people who are defending the truth, the family of the victims and the victims, to make a pilgrimage also until they spend enough time. I said the spokesperson for the People's Party: it must spend time. Of course, as long as time passes! When it is impossible to defuse political responsibilities and Mr. Federico Trillo withdraws from the Council of State after he is ambassador to London. Mr Rafael Catalá, after defending the AVE contracts above the dignity of the people — like Mr Feijóo — was awarded to the Ministry of Justice. That's their past, so they don't have credibility. They have, yes, the chance to rectify it. Just as you have the opportunity to rectify the Socialist Party, which is debating the renewal of the Party. They can't regenerate themselves and renew themselves if they don't crawl with this past, socialist gentlemen. They can't. On the other hand, this is not a second parliament, don't look for false excuses. This isn't a second parliament, we have the right, and it's our right, in an accident in Galicia, in Greek territory, to work for knowing the truth. Don't make excuses, because, as I said here, they vote this here, they say this here, and in Madrid they also prevent there from being a commission of research that develops political responsibilities. Very serious things have happened, we know. The original project has been modified, no measures have been taken to alleviate the only person responsible, all risk, falling on the driver. There have been obvious failures, what more must happen for you to really face the clarification of this issue and the clearance of responsibility for the victims and, in general, for the democratic quality of this State, which unfortunately have to come to European people and authorities to do what you should do here? Why does the European Railway Agency say this? Because they're from En Marea, because they're from the Nationalist Block Galego, because they're communists... No, no, just because they're independent, because they're not in the mood, and you've got to investigate those who were...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u31	Thank you. Finish it, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u32	...for years in the core and in the high-speed business. They just said it for that, because they see it with their own eyes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u33	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u34	...and they can judge correctly, and that's what we're asking here for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u35	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. We shall proceed to the vote. Have you expressed your request, Mr. Sánchez?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u36	Yes, we also ask that it be a secret ballot.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u37	Thank you. This will contain the Regulation in Article 92. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. We vote for the current system, but it will not appear reflected. It won't appear reflected. I think it's exactly the same, it won't appear reflected who votes or their intention to vote. I think it's exactly the same. Let the lawyer advise me on this matter because, if not, we would vote in the ballot box, but I think, if the intention of voting is not going to appear, I think we're in a secret ballot, I think. In addition, it contains Article 91, Mrs Pontón, which says that the secret ballot — listen to what is said in Article 91 and we can then value this — can be done by electronic procedure which confirms the total result of the vote, failing the identification of voters. And second, on paper, when it comes to election of staff, when it is decided upon by the Presidency and when this modality has been specified in the secret ballot.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u38	Yeah, give him a voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u39	What we are asking is that there be a secret ballot in the ballot box, so that the Members and Members of this House can actually vote in conscience. There's a big difference between voting in your seat and voting to be really secret in this ballot box. Very few votes can decide whether or not to set up this commission of inquiry. I ask you not to interfere — since this is your competence — and to allow us to vote on this issue, which I believe has sufficient transcendence and importance. If not, I wouldn't ask you, because you know this isn't something we do every day, but it's something we think we should do this way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u40	I think I gave an explanation about what it was. And I think what it's about preserving is that the vote is a secret. I think it's the essence of what you were asking for. Now, I don't have any problems either, if you take a vote in the ballot box, I don't have a problem. But I believe that what the Rules of Procedure say and what the lawyer says is that the secret ballot is also guaranteed. So, I don't know, it's a question we're... (Mr. Sánchez García asks for the word.) [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You can speak when I give you the floor. This is what is so stipulated in the Rules of Procedure. Now you can talk, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. We asked for the secret ballot and the voting mode in the ballot box. That's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u42	Well, I've understood that, but see if you understand me. I don't have a problem either. No, no, but please! we're reasoning, I think things can be reasoned. [[Murmurs.]] If we have to go to a vote in the ballot box, we'll have to do it later. We won't be able to do it now because we'll have to prepare everything. We can make a vote in the ballot box. I was putting on the table a matter referred to in the Rules of Procedure, which is essentially what you are asking for, which is that this is a secret, that you do not know what Members are voting for. Now, is this the subject where we vote in the ballot box? I don't have a problem. We'll vote in ballot whenever we go. Well, we'll vote in the ballot box as soon as possible, there's no problem. It's clear, but we have to prepare it in time. [[Applause]] Then we'll warn. Now we're going to substance the appearance. Opinion of the Economic, Employment and Industry Adviser, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u43	Whenever you want the word, Mr. Economic Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today I appear in this House to expose to its lordships and to the whole of society the strategic lines of the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry for the tenth autonomous legislation, some strategic lines that seek to respond to three objectives that we mark as government by 2020. The first objective is to consolidate economic growth by supporting the creation of more companies in Galicia and the boost and growth of those companies we already have, particularly in the industrial sector. The second objective is to accelerate job creation and promote quality and equality, because we want to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u45	Excuse me a moment. Silence, please, there's a lot of murmuring and disturbing who's in the use of the word. I beg you, please, if possible, let us keep silence, because if you are in the use of the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u46	I said, Mr President, the second objective is to speed up job creation and promote quality and equality, because we want a more competitive economy, no doubt, but also an economy with more opportunities for all and an economy that breaks with the inequalities that still remain. In the meantime, the third objective will focus on people; in particular, on expanding the protection of the Greeks and the Greeks as consumers, because we want, in addition, an economy that respects the freedom of choice and the interests of all of us when we buy. [[Murmurs.]] These objectives are the ones that will guide the Council's political action over the next few years to make Galicia... [[Murmurs.]] He said, Mr. President, that these objectives are the ones that will guide the Council's political action in the coming years to make Galicia the best land to invest in, the best land to work and the best land to live in. And we will do so through the guidelines that we have put ourselves in a position to write the future of Galicia. I am talking about the Law on Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness of Galicia, the Law on Innovation or the Law on Social Economy. And I'm also talking about the strategies for smart specialization and internationalization of the Galician company, as well as the Industry 4.0 Agenda and the 2020 Employment Agenda. They are all fully effective and fully accepted instruments, which reflect our way of doing politics, with proposals and ideas drawn to the reality that governs planning and consensus. That is why we are going to update and expand these instruments with new ones — which I will further detail — by offering, as always, political dialogue and social dialogue. Because all efforts are still needed and because we are convinced that it is the will of the Greeks and the Greeks. So, ladies and gentlemen, I turn to this audience with a double objective: firstly, share the vision that this government has for economic Galicia, industrial Galicia and labour Galicia on the horizon of 2020, and also with the vocation to listen to its proposals, inviting them from the very first moment to establish bridges of understanding that overcome our differences in the common interest of Galicia. I am convinced that everyone here unites us with love for this land. And surely, if we overcome this feeling, from realism and from the point of view of rules and institutions, and if we also gain confidence in the capabilities of our businesses, of our entrepreneurs and of our people, ladies and gentlemen, it will be easier to address the solutions that we have pending and the answers that citizens are asking us for; answers that provide Galicia with a future with more well-being and wealth, of a future that maximizes Galicia's productive potential to push the creation of employment and of a future based on industry, innovation, the talent of human capital, in the autonomous and in small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, that Galicia is consolidating its economic recovery is hard to discuss, and today the situation for many Greeks and Greeks is better than in past legislates, too. Just as it's hard to deny that Galicia, usually, has a better situation than the whole state. This is the reality, although we realize that we have to keep working hard to keep our economy more dynamic, more competitive and above all more job and quality employment. In fact, if we look at the data, Galicia closed the year 2016 with the main green indicators. The Greek economy is already growing at an annual rate of 3.3%, the highest rate of the German gross domestic product since mid-2008; an evolution that is explained by the good behaviour of domestic consumption, by the good behavior of all productive sectors — and especially in the case of industry, whose production index increases by 4.1% in 2016 when Spain is only doing so to 1.6% — and also by the good behavior of Welsh exports, which one more year has shown an exceptional evolution with an increase of 6.4%, registering a new historical record and marking in the last four years the best export cycle in our entire history. For their part, business creation data also shows that Galicia is a land to undertake. And that leaves out the more than 8,500 companies created between 2015 and 2016, a trend that is being consolidated at the beginning of 2017 with the creation of 439 companies that were set up in January, more than 14 companies a day. Even so, statistics confirm that we create jobs, even if we expect to do so much more intensively. But the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that Galicia ends January with about 20,000 memberships more than a year ago, which is the biggest figure since 2012. In addition, indefinite contracts grow by 22.1%, more than twice as much of the temporary recruitment. And they're all figures that let us explain that today 2 out of 3 employees in Galicia have an indefinite full-time contract. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has improved and advanced much in recent years in a very difficult context and in a very demanding context, and not only for the crisis and economic recession, which would be enough to explain it, but also for the new demands of a more global economy and a more connected economy. And what we aspire to is that this situation of positive evolution can continue to improve and advance in this legislation, because we count -- so we understand it from the Government -- with enough sources to give a new impetus to achieve in the legislation the future that we propose, with more growth, more employment and more well-being. A boost in which we are working since the first time the current Government of the Union was formed, and that in the case of the Council of Economy, Employment and Industry collects, as the main milestones, the 2020 Autonomous Strategy, which amounts to more than EUR 40 million in 2017, to boost the implementation of new projects of the autonomous Greeks, the growth of those already and also the highest quality of employment; the Training and Entrepreneurship Programme in rural areas, with about EUR 30 million, to promote economic diversification and create more labour options in the less populated municipalities; the action plan for the collection of investments, with the objective of enhancing all Galician capacities at the new facilities; the second phase of technology and industrial Rozas, announcing seven biddings for innovative working solutions that will help to improve their capacity, to improve their capacity and to enable them to set up European public services, and to implement them with a new facilities; 14 million programmes, including Euros, 40 million, including programmes; and 14 million programmes. So, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about facts. And if you'll excuse me, we've been talking about a lot of things over the past eight years. That's thanks to the majority confidence of the Greeks, it revalidates last September, but above all thanks to the commitment and will of each of them to get out of the way. And we, as a government, certainly do not want to let them down. That's why our maximum during this legislation will be, once again, full-service work, which we will articulate on four major strategic lines that will form the main axes of the performance of the Economic, Employment and Industry Council. First of all, I refer to industry and innovation as priorities for making a more competitive Galicia. I mean improving competitiveness to make our community a more attractive place for new investments. I mean, I keep working to create more and better jobs, with more equality and more quality. And I mean, fourthly, stepping up protection and defending the rights of the Greeks as consumers and users. Step by step, ladies and gentlemen, detailing each of these four strategic lines. The first line, and with regard to the drive of industry and innovation, our task, ladies and gentlemen, will be to advance towards consolidation of Industry 4.0 with a new thrust: the intelligent factory, the competitiveness of all our companies and their internationalisation; to continue the development of the technology of Rozas; to start the launch of large innovation consortia in emerging sectors that place us as international European leaders; to strengthen the value chain of the forest sector within the framework of bio-economics; and to get small and medium-sized enterprises to incorporate innovation into their strategies. The Galician Union bet on industry will continue to develop the Industry 4.0 competitiveness agenda. That is why we will continue to do so, especially in the fields of innovation, industrial soil and bet on talent. And in this sense, we will continue with the help of Factory 4.0 projects, called to transform the Welsh industry, also with the training of workers, because the modernization of industry necessarily depends on people. And with the focus on sectoral industrial entrepreneurship that continues the Business Factory Auto, without logically forgetting the programs to support internationalization both in origin and in destination. But in addition to continuing the initiatives launched during the past legislation, we will promote new measures. And so we will launch a digital transformation programme in industry to support projects that accelerate the implementation of ICT technologies, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises. We will create collaborative spaces that facilitate the creation of new products from Industry 4.0 at a cheaper cost. And we will develop the comprehensive logistics optimization strategy of Galicia, to improve a very valuable asset in the competitiveness of our companies and to attract new investments. Even so, in the industrial field, we will focus our efforts on the Rozas pole to build a new technological and industrial heart in Lugo, a technological and industrial pole linked to a sector of high expectations, such as unmanned air systems. We are aware that investing in knowledge is the only way to develop our productive model. And in an emerging sector like the aeronautics sector, linked to unmanned planes, we're betting on this Rozas deal with commitments amounting to 150 million euros, with a clear impact on our universities, our technology centers and our companies. Rozas consists of, ladies and gentlemen, an opportunity to capture talent and create quality jobs. And it's also an opportunity to introduce innovative solutions in the provision of public services, such as marine resource management, land management or air traffic management services. But, ladies and gentlemen, the wager for Galicia's new production model requires us to continue to take steps in favour of an innovation capable of generating great ideas and big projects with the sum of them all. And that's why we're going to take another step in this legislation, and what we're going to do is start three innovation consortia around the value chains of the aeronautical sector, bio-economics and industry 4.0. These innovation consortia will aim to combine talent, knowledge, technological capabilities and funding to generate high-value products and services for the market on the basis of more effective cooperation. I'm talking about public-private collaboration, which will allow us to be more attractive when we raise funds outside Galicia and prepare ourselves for the European stage of R & D+i from the 2030 horizon. In the industrial field, it is worth a special mention of the creation of the Galician Forest Industry Agency, an agency that will aim to develop a strategy for the competitiveness and internationalization of the value chain of our forests, with specific attention both to the first and second transformation of the timber sector. The priority in this area will be to value forest resources and to do so through a greater presence of wood, such as the material used in other sectors — such as the automotive, aeronautics or the naval sector —, to increase the added value of current forest products and to promote the development of new products — in this case through innovation and through design. And it also supports traceability and quality certifications to boost their marketing abroad. The bet, ladies and gentlemen, of Industry 4.0 and of innovation will have a special role in the next legislation in the forest sector. But the importance of innovation goes beyond the innovation applied to industry. Innovation is a decisive factor in all areas of our economy, and that's why it's also going to be the key part in this legislation in its entire dimension. In order to achieve this goal, we plan to amend Galicia's Research and Innovation Promotion Act, Law 5/2013, with the aim of updating the aspects of valorization and transfer of R & D+i results that improve the competitiveness of our productive fabric. And in a special way, we will be dedicated to the development of new dynamization models that give rise to a changing context, such as the Innovation and Reverse Transfer Association. Even so, we will develop the new Galician R & D+i plan, which will be a government programming tool to implement by 2020 the main lines of action of the Smart Specialization Strategy. We will push the community's leadership into innovative public procurement; a leader, ladies and gentlemen, who has become manifest, for the second time, with the achievement of the National Innovation Prize we received a few days ago. And we're going to make this bet through a specific program focused not only on Join, but also on other agents of the Welsh R & D+i. This innovative public procurement programme will enable the identification of new transformative projects in areas such as the green economy, the training of public employees on the new innovative public administration model or the creation of a strategic intelligence laboratory that will enable the systematization of innovative public procurement processes. Fourthly, we will continue with the bet to set excellent researchers in Galicia. And we're going to encourage the recruitment of new researchers, not only in universities and technology centers, but also in companies. That's why I can announce to you that the Galician Innovation Agency will launch a new program of innovative talent capture that extends the timely programs of Principle, with the aim of turning our community into a pole of knowledge and innovation. And all of this we'll do is strengthen our support for business innovation, we'll develop new calls for aid so that no project of interest to our country, whether large or small, will stop developing in Galicia. New aids that will, of course, be added to the programs known to their lordships, such as joint research units, Connecta Pemes programs, Ignity evidence of concept and also the Innovation Acceleration Network. The second area of economic, employment and industry policies will focus on improving the scenario in which companies have to develop their business. In this sense, we will continue with the work that we have begun with Galicia's Entrepreneurship and Economic Competitiveness Act, which has already enabled us to move forward, as you know, in the search for a suitable context to learn. It has done so with greater administrative facilities through the general elimination of municipal licences and the creation of municipal certification bodies. And I have also done it with greater instruments of support through the Galician Enterprise Unit and the current funding programmes. So in this legislation we will take new steps to strengthen this ecosystem and, most importantly, to make it a more user-friendly ecosystem. And we'll do it by working on three areas: administrative axillization, financing and energy. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia's ability to fix industrial fabric and capture new investments is directly related to the facilities we can give businesses for their deployment in Galicia. We must facilitate and speed up administrative processes, and we must also offer the best tax treatment of your investments. Precisely these objectives are taken up in the Investment Pickup Plan that the Galician Union has just launched a few weeks ago and which takes two measures that we understand are of particular importance. I am referring to the new Act for the Promotion of Entrepreneurship, aimed at facilitating industrial activities with measures such as the administrative simplification of the implementation of specific projects and measures for the management and dynamisation of business areas. And I am also referring to the implementation of a protocol of good practice, in collaboration with Fegamp, which highlights Galicia's attractiveness; both in administrative axillization — including the municipalities — and in advertising and availability of industrial soil, as well as tax measures and promotion measures with additional benefits. This action to facilitate the implementation of industrial activities will be accompanied by the provision of new financial instruments for entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. The financial approaches of the council, therefore, will meet once again the needs of entrepreneurship, internationalisation, innovation and, also, of increasing the size and growth of our companies. The Galician board will keep the help thoroughly lost through Galicia Entrepreneur and Galicia Investe programs. But above all, and with more emphasis, we will develop a new programme of financial and innovative instruments that will enable us to multiply the impact of public resources. This programme will have an amount of EUR 80 million up to 2020 and will have four lines of action: the ICE Enterprise, for companies made up of new entrepreneurs; the ICE Innovation, for small and medium-sized enterprises developing innovative projects; the ICE Growth, to invest in the creation of a new establishment or to improve the competitiveness of existing installations, and also to enable the increase in the size of our productive fabric; and the ICE Export, to expand the productive capacity to meet export needs. As regards financing, we will also complement innovative financial instruments with venture capital instruments through XES Galicia, such as the Innova XES funds, the I2C fund, or the Galicia Entrepreneurship Initiatives Fund. And we will also consolidate the network of private investors, because we understand that the venture capital in Galicia has to continue to focus on the most innovative projects. No doubt, energy is one of the areas of support for the economy of Galicia and also for our well-being, as I shall speak later. In this sense, ensuring the availability of a more competitive and sustainable energy supply system continues to be, ladies and gentlemen, a priority for this Government. That is why we are going to propose to this House a pact that allows for consensus on energy projects of self-interest, as well as all the measures necessary to simplify and speed up its administrative process. A new framework that allows us to increase our energy generation capacity with renewable sources. Even so, we will work to boost self-consumption through a package of measures in line with the competences of the autonomous community: the improvement of energy infrastructure by boosting further improvements in quality and safety, especially in rural areas and industrial areas; the development of planned interconnections with France and Portugal; the follow-up of the adaptation of thermal power plants to the Industrial Emissions Directive; and in the implementation of energy saving and efficiency measures that benefit companies. The third strategic line focuses on the job. Government commitments to the Greeks and to the Greeks by 2020 are clearly defined: generating between 80,000 and 100,000 jobs in this legislation, reducing the unemployment rate to 10% and creating or converting 50,000 contracts into indefinite. All of these objectives are set out in Agenda 2020 for Employment, with the aim of promoting a more favourable framework for further activation of job creation and its quality, and ultimately bringing the highest yield to our human capital. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, among other measures, it is essential to develop a new self-employment strategy, with which we seek to improve the conditions of these workers, which in Galicia, as you know, represent 1 out of 4. A week ago, we celebrated the III Self-Government Bureau — in less than a year — a meeting with the main associations of this group, where we had the opportunity to evaluate a package of 20 measures with EUR 160 million up to 2020, 20 measures to incorporate new people into the sector, to facilitate the best possible conditions and, above all, to simplify and speed up administrative processing. Since the council we want to support more than 10,000 workers a year, with a budget allocation that will increase by 45% over the past legislation. To that end, among the innovative measures will be the expansion to the 50 euro flat rate of the state; improving reconciliation by increasing in sixteen weeks the 100% bonus of the share of social security that corresponds to the person hired; we will create an autonomous bonus, for the first time, to support those self-employed who have an age of more than forty-two months for the consolidation of their activity; and we will launch a program of generational relief. All of this with the establishment of an autonomous office, with the aim of the autonomous having a single window in the Galician Union to act with direct contact, to identify their needs and resolve their doubts. Even so, in terms of employment, we have to speed up job creation in Galicia, so we will develop an employment law, as we have already announced, which makes us into the first community by adopting a legal text adapted to the new state framework. But above all, a law that enables us to implement more effective policies to achieve new stable and quality jobs, and that directs the current employment ecosystem by promoting coordination of actions carried out by different administrations. So, Your Honor, in the context of this new law, we are going to make a pact for employment in Galicia, a pact for employment that will stimulate job creation and improve the employability of the Greeks. A pact that enables the renewal of active employment policies, with the focus on modernising the Public Employment Service in Galicia, improving vocational training and accreditation systems and stimulating recruitment among the most vulnerable groups. In any case, from the council, we will continue to work to maximize the results of recent years. And, in this context, I would like to highlight three areas that are particularly relevant for their qualitative element: the development of an employment plan that promotes equality, seeking the collaboration of the social partners to advance wage equality between men and women; facilitating the reintegration of women, who have left their employment for personal and family reasons; as well as the development of careers and inclusion in high-quality occupations. In addition to promoting equality, we will pay particular attention to youth employment. That's why Together will continue to work to create more and better jobs among the younger. As you know, we have expanded the youth guarantee system to all under thirty years of age registered in the employment offices, which will facilitate the execution and accessibility of the most young to the youth guarantee system, and we will continue to offer greater support to their recruitment, improving training opportunities and job integration opportunities. We will also develop new programs that facilitate the acquisition of skills and skills that companies demand, and, above all, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of Industry 4.0. And the third issue is people with the greatest difficulties. We will promote new measures, such as the Employment Guidance and Integration Programme, aimed at persons belonging to family units in which all their active members are unemployed, will expand resources to facilitate the inclusion of groups at risk of exclusion, in particular those who perceive the risk, and will also follow the assistance to long-term unemployed over forty-five years. Finally, we want to focus more directly on the creation of stable employment and quality employment. And we will do so by giving priority to indefinite contracts in employment aid, introducing valuation criteria for businesses, with a higher rate of job stability and a higher ratio of men and women in their staff. We will strengthen measures to prevent occupational risks and health at work, promote the implementation of social and business responsibility and policies for equality, reconciliation and rationalization of working hours, and stimulate the training of workers. I'm going to detail the fourth strategic line, and I mean, in this case, actions in people and enlargement in consumer protection, a priority axis for this government, because we know that economic development and competitiveness must also be next to the services and rights of all Greeks as consumers. That is why we will improve consumer care services and promote responsible consumption, also reinforcing the fight against energy poverty, in addition to moving forward with the stimulation of renewable energy and savings and energy efficiency to improve the well-being of housing and cities. We will also carry out actions that reinforce the excellent work being carried out by the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competitiveness. They know you've been working on very sensitive matters, as were the preferences, and now you're doing it with the same professionalism and rigour in transferring information and advice into ground clauses and also in electrical situations. In this sense, and in the wake of the Galego Institute of Competitiveness, we will develop a plan for the protection of consumers. This plan will aim to improve the quality of the service to the Greek consumers by digitizing and optimizing processes to facilitate and speed up the submission and resolution of complaints, boosting mediation resources for conflict resolution and implementing, ladies and gentlemen, a pioneering measure, such as electronic arbitration, an electronic arbitration that will allow the submission of documentation digitally, but that will, above all, allow meetings to be with virtual means, avoiding, in this case, displacement. The plan will also include actions to increase the prevention of risks for consumers, as a boost to codes of good sectoral practice, whose accession may be a guarantee certificate for the consumer, or campaigns to control new consumption formats, which are emerging on the market, in particular through electronic commerce and through telephone offers. Already in the energy field, to point out that the Galician Union will continue to take the necessary measures to support the well-being of all Greeks, even though our main interest will once again be with the families who need it most. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia we have help to lower the electricity receipts of the most vulnerable families since 2014, being one of the first communities to do so. We also have help to avoid supply cuts since 2015, which we have now expanded to natural gas by 2017; aids that have benefited more than 6,000 homes as a whole. We will also develop the "Give Light to Your Bill" campaign to inform and, above all, to train electric consumers. And we will continue with the development of the Energy Savings and Efficiency Plan in housing, with which we are improving the thermal quality of over 7,000 Greek homes in two years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with this and other measures throughout the legislative process, aware that there is room for improvement, but with the commitment expressed in this House to move forward once the state achieves the social bonus so that the Union can develop a new framework of aid that gives a more integrated response to the most vulnerable Greek energy consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, these are, in broad terms, the most important priorities and strategies of the Economic, Employment and Industry Council by 2020. With them we seek, as I said at first, to consolidate economic growth by supporting entrepreneurs and also self-employed people, because they are — entrepreneurs and self-employed — those who really risk and work day by creating jobs and wealth in Galicia; accelerate job creation and promote quality and equality, because we know that there are Greeks and Greeks who do not yet have a job; and expand the protection of the Greeks as consumers, because we want to be at the service of their well-being. So we have a very intense job in which we demand the involvement of all and also of the opposition groups, because this is the best way to achieve and be more effective in achieving our main objective, which is nothing but to defend, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia's interests and the interests of the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u47	Thank you very much, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG has the floor to Mrs Noa Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u48	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen. We have observed, from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the same in this presentation of strategic lines of the council that we are dealing with today — as it were — that we are living in the debate period in budgets. We see how the strategy of the People's Party for Industry and Employment is the strategy of double pe, with propaganda and advertising, but little more than common places. In these ten minutes, I will try to introduce some of the issues that we have been deeply concerned about since the BNG Parliamentary Group that we believe that the Government's action is not what this country needs, neither action nor attitude. However, I welcome that Mr. Count today had also asked us for suggestions, so I will try, on my own behalf, to ask some questions for some clarification and some suggestions. And, the first thing I have to do, unfortunately, is ask you again, please meet once and for all with the Ferroatlantic Business Committee, as I ask you, from the absolute sincerity, if this is going to be the strategy of the council, to hide when this country has a problem. [[Applause]] Albert Einstein said, precisely, that the formulation of a problem is more important than its solution. From the BNG we understand that philosophy, we understand that the first step to looking for the way out of any problem is precisely to state it. That's why we see with concern some self-comprehensive analysis of the socio-economic context that we are living in. You, of course, will be accused of alarmists and fifty, but I say no, that we have worked from optimism, from confidence in our country's potential and from the optimism of knowing that another exit is possible through other policies. But it goes to our consciousness, too, the duty to put the letters on the table and to move the concern and uncertainty that we live many Greeks and Greeks face a theoretical recovery that only comes from the press notes of the Galician Union, not from the growth of stable net employment, not from the increase of non-temporal work and not from the reorientation of our productive model. I hope the diagnosis was different, but the fact is that the analysis we make of the labour market shows that the austere policies of the People's Party, both in the Union and in the state, have contributed to dismantling, and have contributed to dismantling, Galicia at the price of balance, while we lose population at a rate that no economy or no country can afford. They won't deny that for that there is one element that is fundamental, that is employment. So, you're taking advantage of certain macroeconomic indicators that have a positive evolution, such as GDP, or cold data, without further deepening of occupation, but the truth is that if we scratch a little, if we go below, what they hide is the consolidation of precariousness and the model of poor workers, which is something we see with deep concern, because we have a labour market in which the creation of net employment is scarce and where the loss of active population advances without brakes since 2012. By setting an example, in the last quarter we lost over 10,800 people in active activity, this is equivalent to the Grove Town Hall or the Xinzo Town Hall, but the worst thing is that the bulk of the active population that is lost is that of my generation, is that generation between twenty-five and thirty-four years old, that we would have to be developing our professional careers and our personal life in this country. And they're also not to throw too many rockets into the occupation data, which, although it's increased in the last year, in the quarter that we've closed, we see how it came down at 0.78%. So, I do want to transfer to you, on behalf of the BNG Group, the concern about this phenomenon of the worker and the poor worker and that you intend to make Join with the normative capacity that you have to prevent this consolidation, and if that is going to be one of the objectives of that future employment law that we hope you really have a foundation, a social dialogue, as you point out. We also see with concern the loss of membership in Social Security, already 30,000 people less, which is like picking up or Ames or Carballo and also removing it from our map. You've talked about self-employed people, actually it's the work group that has increased most in workload and that more incentives are being received from both the Union and the State. However, we are concerned that the phenomenon of false autonomouss is also being given, has a double thread this knife. On the one hand, to be a tool for that job creation, but on the other hand, we are also seeing how the union forces and different associations denounce how this phenomenon is being seen that certain companies are making a policy of coercion towards people becoming autonomous and autonomous. So I ask you if you've already planned for the Joint Largest Control Mechanisms for that, so that it doesn't end up instead of an exit becoming another bag with a certain dangerous and toxic content for our labor market. So, I ask you that, and you'll also get into some kind of strategy within that self-employed office that you announced to us. In this respect, with regard to the future employment law, we would like to invite them to be genuinely ambitious and ambitious since the Galician Union and to commit themselves to being a tool for the working class and to help protect themselves from the labour reforms of the Spanish State, both their own and that of the Socialist Party, because within the normative margin we have, we have ways to do so. As for equality, I, the truth, am a little disappointed, Mr. Count, because unlike you, who usually underestimate others, I have it by a skilled man. So, I'm surprised that being so close to March 8 is limited to announcing to us an equality plan that has already been announced in July, and since July there has been no novelty. I hope that plan is already ready and exposed to dialogue with trade union and feminist organizations. Because the truth, given that by 2015, women have entered 77% of what men have entered, I think it's time for something more than theoretical plans and what common places. A year ago, precisely, the BNG proposed that they comply with the Equality Act and make a women's employment plan, and the response from the Board was that it was already on Agenda 20 for employment. But a year later we went on without seeing that realization, without debating here that text of having the opportunity to judge it from the opposition. If we also look at the industrial employment data, we see something that is also dangerous, despite the slight increase, because it's still far from the horizon that we had 120,000 employees in this sector that there was when Mr. Feijóo arrived at Junta. The industrial business survey also provides us with some worrying information until 2014 as well as the industrial production index. This concerns us, but, above all, we are concerned that we see that outside the common places there has not just been a project committed to the reorientation of our productive sectors. That's why we want to insist, in the last few minutes of this meeting, on the importance for us to bet on innovation. A bet that I'm listening to you now, the truth is that it's a good trade, and it almost convinces us that it's a priority for the government, but then we're going to the figures, we're going to the economic effort, and we see that we're still anchored to that 0.89% of GDP in the last data we have from 2015, when really there's a GDP growth, as you know repeatedly. So we apply that growth also to investment and research. That's why we want to make a proposal in this respect. There are only six months left to discuss new budgets in this House, so we want to install them to which we now, with time and planning — no margin to be told that our amendments are inaccurate — are committed to raising that investment to 1% of GDP for the forthcoming budgets of the Galician Union. Then I'll stop more on research issues, for lack of time, because the fact is that these ten minutes are limited. There's another question that I wanted to keep playing in my speech, which is all about relocations. From the BNG we see as good news that at last Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Rueda, talk about relocation. When I entered this Parliament a few months ago, we were aliens when we said that this phenomenon existed, despite the worrying data. So, I'm going to take the word of that vocation to listen to you, I believe that precisely in this matter of driving and fighting against the settlement of relocation is something in which we have to dialogue all political forces. So I ask you also if in that new promotion law you will have a specific consideration on the question of relocations and, above all, how that affects the southern provinces. In view of this, we propose that, on behalf of the BNG, we turn the question of relocation into a country strategy, which first bets on research; we are not worth the policy of bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, but we understand that research is a fundamental pillar to put here the body of the car. We've got top-level qualified staff, let's take advantage of it. We also claim that one of the other axes is a transparent control over the fate of public money, removing the aid to those companies that use the relocation of part of the template or production, and also betting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u50	...—now finished—for a third point for this collective proposal to work around combating relocation and also shielding guarantees so that workers and workers can no longer be the currency of exchange to retain companies here in this sector. We understand that politics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u51	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u52	...of double pe, propaganda and advertising, they are not enough, and today, that we celebrate the memory of Rosaly, we invite them to adopt the following verse as their motto: "In the sowing of joy, / in the heart the effort." Of course, on our part you'll have positive suggestions for that effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u53	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. You have the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, you spoke thirty-seven minutes or so. I missed everything that had to do with the distribution of wealth. He spoke, in my opinion, very little, very above, of inequality, and practically nothing, and I think it's an important subject, very important in this context. I, if I had to qualify for his intervention depending on a more scholarly approach or less, could stay between reality and desire, from Cernuda, or, well, not a bad word or a good deed. It's such a little more approach to walking down the street, but I'm sure you understand perfectly what I mean. You're still a real master, beyond the lack of rigour of opposition groups, which I already give for... Well, it's a constant in the model and, therefore, we're not going to affect it. At least, lack of rigour from this spokesman, I don't stand up as a representative of the rest of the spokespersons. You're a magician of posverity and alternative facts. The truth is, I don't know if they'll fix it in Washington, but it does pretty well. All indicators in green. I'll give you two that were published today. National Institute of Statistics, entry of orders into the industry, given December 2016, therefore, annual data: in Spain it decreases by 4.6%, in Galicia by 25.8%. It's true, I told you at some point, Counselor, when it goes up a lot, don't come up with this data, which has very important cyclical components. Of course, but if you have very important cyclical components when you get up and come here so that then the next day in the media comes out that industry goes like a shot, because now, too, and tell us this second largest download of the 17 autonomous communities in Spain. But the other indicator that comes out is much less affected by the trend cycle and seasonality, as you well know, and that's the turnover. In Spain the industry grew in 2016 by 2.5%, in Galicia by 0.8%. I insist, data published today by the National Institute of Statistics. I think something should make it reflect. I find it very difficult, the truth is, I don't know very well enough to prepare the interventions, because then, listening to it, you're extremely successful. He failed to speak — absolutely nothing — of the international environment. Galicia could be galactic, we could be in the middle of the interstellar space perfectly located; the United States does not exist; the revival of protectionist policies, those that defend Trump and some other parties or social movements, that socialists do not share, are there; Brexit is there; the elections in France, Germany and Holland this year are there. Anyway, I'd like you, who is an illustration person, to tell us something about these issues. Above all, Counsellor, because you know that 10 percent of the exports from Greece go to England, the United Kingdom and the United States. So, I think, at last, it's a variable of which I would be worth saying something. We still have green variables. Look, it's true that in 2016 GDP grew the same as in Spain, 3.2%, according to GDP data. But it is also true that in the whole crisis the negative impact was greater in Galicia than in Spain, in Spain, 4% of GDP decrease, I speak of the years 2008-2015, which are the ones I have been able to approve, and I already put 2008 to catch the year of the former Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño, and I collect three years of the Government of the former President Rodríguez Zapatero, i.e. I catch the years of the crisis. In Spain it dropped by 4% or GDP, in Galicia by 6%. At least it's the data that comes out to me. But they don't just come out to me, they go out in terms of generation of income, wealth and distribution of that income and wealth, which is the theme of what you, at last, speaks a little less. A recently held holder and, by the way, also with sources from the Galego Institute of Statistics, not from Abel Losada or the Socialist Party of Galicia: "The Greek economy pinks the levels prescribed." Here already counting the data from 2016, which are not disaggregated to compare them since the year 2008, with almost 20% less working hours. And here we go to the point, Counselor. We produce the same with 20% less working hours and an average hour's pay off. Who's taking the cake? One question -- I think it's relevant -- given that you're a Labour, Economics and Industry advisor, I know that it's not about Fairy, but well, I think it's a question -- I don't know whether it's strict or not, it has ideology, that's right. It's not a management question, nor is it a technical question, it's a question that we produce the same with the 20% minus hours of work, and in addition to the average hour payout worked decreases. [[Applause]] So, unless there is a fourth dimension, and in this galactic in which Galicia is moving because, in fact, there are paranormal phenomena, what the statistics say happens: that wage mass has lost 4% of GDP in the crisis and increased the remuneration of capital and wealth, we call it as we wish. I'd like you to talk to us about this, because I understand that thirty-seven minutes of talking to us... absolutely respectable. You are a member of the Government and you come here and you talk about exactly what you consider, of plans and other plans and more, and speaking, in addition to calling for appeal, the collaboration of parliamentary groups. I don't know how you want us to cooperate, I don't know if you want us to make a symbolic pilgrimage to the Economic and Industry Councillorship, because then I don't know what I'm going to do with I2C, RIS3, Industry 4.0 or Galactic 5.0, which is that they come here with a plan, you leave us a story during an appearance, thirty-five minutes on average... what is the way of collaboration? I would also like to thank you for explaining to us what the way of collaboration is, because the fact is that this humble Member has some difficulties in working together. Look, recently Valonia, a region of Belgium, blocked for a while, with a great media rush in the European Union, the signing of the trade treaty with Canada. You know why? Because you lost 5% of your jobs in the crisis, exactly 9,000 over about 350,000 industrial jobs. That was the reason why the Government of Wallonia had to block or try to block — after it was effectively negotiated — that issue. Here in Galicia, 20 percent have now been lost, 25 percent, and nobody tells anything about it. You come here, actually, between reality and desire, tell us a lot of plans, but I'd like to, Counselor, to talk about a few specific issues. What's going to happen to the relocation? The other day, the Territorial Planning and Environment Advisor announced the bid for the Plisan Debugger Project, she announced, I insist. I repeat, in case it is a lack of rigour from the intervener, you announced the bidding of the Plisan debugger project. You know, perfectly, that without debugger there can be no companies. And I don't know if you know -- but I remember you -- that that same advisor said a year ago that at this point the first companies would be settling in Plisan. So, Counselor, what are you talking about here? So another subject that is also extremely relevant, the issue of energy, beyond the social dimension, that we will talk about in the second intervention, which without any doubt is of great importance. Hey! I think, really, this way of Damascus has become a highway, because you're falling to lots of horses. Do you really come here to talk about renewables and self-consumption, after what the PP government in Madrid passed in the previous legislation? I understand that Mr. Arias Cañete has no shame — not in the sense of shame but in that he does not get colored when he contradicts himself, of course — and comes to make the apostolate secrete Santiago de Compostela and to tell us about the goodness of renewable energies. But, man!, a little shame away!, a little bit of getting a little colorful; at least a little. It's not about squeezing any silicon, it's about getting a little colorful. Do you really, after what happened with the wind competition, then, exactly, everything that happened with the renewable energies in Galicia and Spain — that the European Union and all the international bodies are saying that we are losing the train by fast steps — come here to tell us that this is the future of not knowing very well what? Hey, no, that we read something, we understand some chart, some data table, at last, something like that we're going to know about. Financing is also an extremely interesting subject. We're not going to talk about what happened to the boxes. Igape. Look, there's some amazing avalanche, and you, who was so against the avalanche and it seemed to you an unbalanced risk solution by the Public Service... blah, blah, blah, blah, blah... in 2016 there was an extremely generous one that I'm sure would meet all the requirements.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u56	It's over, Mr. President. But, in any case, you'll recognize it's surprising, because the company, which has already been endorsed in previous conditions... so we all have our Alfageme. Don't you know what I'm talking about? Well, then, ask yourself, ask yourself—ask yourself in the sense of asking—that someone will certainly explain it to you. And in the question of employment, look, I used to say this in terms of the distribution of income and wealth, but in qualitative terms, of quality of wages, the data are all absolutely overwhelming.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u58	One third of the occupied Greeks charge the minimum wage or less. By the way, the rise of the minimum wage, which I stand for, if you don't have very strong public training support policies, is a risk to these workers. The left knows. But the left, when he governs, he tries to get these training policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u60	...are capable of correcting these risks. And with you — I would like to remind you, Counsellor — in 2016 — I do not know whether it was your competence or not — the training courses for employees were exactly [...].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Mr Manuel Lago has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u62	Good morning to all and to all. What today the councillor announced to us here is that he will continue with the same policy that the Government of Galicia has been doing for eight years. That's the news. And he does it according to the logic that the balance of management of this period is so good that it justifies that these policies continue. So I'm going to focus on making a different reading from reality. I shall begin with a statement: Government Feijóo is what has the worst economic balance in thirty-five years of self-government. I recognize it's an opinion, but it's an opinion based on objective data. The first is that, under his mandate, the Greek economy has been in recession for four years and two years in stagnation, so that from 2009 to 2014 we have suffered the longest and hardest recessive cycle in our country's modern history. The result of this negative period is demolition. With data from 2015, by the same argument as Mr. Losada said, the level of wealth production of goods and services is still below six points that we had in 2008. It still took 3,500 million euros to get back to where we were. Let's get the reading of this information, because this had never happened in the modern history of our country: that a government had finished a legislation -- in this case two -- with a level of wealth lower than when it started. No government has ever closed a mandate with a GDP level below what it found when it started legislation. However, until well advanced 2017 we won't get back to the level of wealth we had before Feijó began to rule. Galicia has lost a decade, because two and a half laws are not going to serve anything but returning to the exit cottage. We're not moving forward, we're going back, and we're doing more than the state's average. The second fact is that the Greek economy evolves worse than the average state. From 2009 to 2013, GDP in Spain fell by 8.6% while in Galicia by 9.5%, one more point. And now the opposite is happening: in the period 2014-2015 GDP has grown in Spain by 4.6 % while in Galicia by 3.6%, a minus point. Galicia is among the group of autonomous communities that occupy the cola platoon. We just grew up more than Asturias, Cantabria, La Rioxa and Castela-A Mancha. And when you give the relationship of the communities behind you, you know what they are: uniprovincial communities of small size and low self-government. Therefore, among the great territories of the state, we are the ones who have the worst evolution. The recession was more intense here, and the recovery is getting weaker. We have fallen further and now we have grown less, so that since 2009 the Greek economy has lost two points compared to the Spanish average. Galicia contributed 5.3% of the State's GDP in 2009. With the last known data, we contributed 5.1%. It's two tenths. The letters may seem small, but two tenths of the Spanish state's GDP is 2,000 million euros. This is the differential cost of government management Feijóo, because if Galicia had evolved just like the Spanish average, the wealth produced in our country would be 2,000 million above what we actually achieved. Galicia shares economic cycle with Spain and the European Union, there is a high synchronisation. To evaluate the management of a government, what to measure is the differential, what the difference is. And this differential is what I just said, quantified in those 2,000 million euros of lower growth. And what do you owe? Because it's because the government Feijóo was the administration that first began to cut and the one that did it more efficiently. We meet the deficit, that's true. But to do so, we pay a high price in terms of employment and well-being. And that's why the Feijóo Government is the worst of thirty-five years of self-government in the economy as well. Counselor, I'm going to make a statement that I'd like you to lie to her when she goes up to the gallery. Galicia is the autonomous community that has the worst employment evolution in the entire state. After eight years of Feijóo's government, there are 103,000 less busy than when it started, and today there are 38,000 unemployed men and women more than there were in 2009. And that had never happened before in the history of autonomy. No government has ever shut down a less busy legislation than when it started, not even the evil of Touriño and Quintana. However, now, after two legislates, nearly 100,000 jobs are still missing to get back to where we were when you began to rule. That's the real balance of the Feijóo Government. That's why In Marea talks about three laws lost for the job. Because even if that goal had been met that you have defined to create 100,000 jobs in the remaining legislation, we would reach 2020 with the same level of occupation that we had in 2009. Twelve years of government to return to the worst year of the recession, to a catastrophic situation that the then leader of the opposition, Nuñez Feijóo, rightly described as a disaster. He said Galicia has the worst employment evolution in the whole state. Because it's true that jobs have been lost in the state as a whole, but here more. They have lost more in the recession and are now growing less in the high economic cycle. Since the second quarter of 2009, when he began to rule Feijóo, so far employment in Galicia has fallen by 9%; in the state as a whole, by 3.4%. If you do the division, there's a data I think frightening, and it's that the destruction of employment in our country multiplies three times the average state. The result of this negative differential is that Galicia is the autonomous community leading the ranking of job destruction in Spain. We are the autonomous community that is at the head of the destruction of employment throughout the state. It's data from the National Institute of Statistics. Fewer jobs and poorer jobs, because the precariousness of work in all formulas does not stop growing to become a structural feature of our model of working relationships. It's true, Counsellor, that the precaution rate is -- and then we're talking about it -- 27% and, therefore, one in four people working as employees has a temporary contract -- sorry, that two in three has an indefinite contract and one in three has a temporary contract. But that has to do with the past of the country, because its management in that sense is terrifying. I'm going to tell you, from the end of 2013 until now, 95% of the waged employment generated is temporary, and only 5 out of every 100 waged jobs generated in Galicia since 2009 is indefinite. Even — as you well say — two out of three have an indefinite contract. But as we leave a couple more laws at this rate, Counselor, the ratio will change. And it's not a problem that corresponds — regarding this data, counsellor, please — to the initial phase of the cycle. It's just that the worst data is just the one in the last 12 months. In 2016 all wage employment generated was of a precarious, temporary nature. The exit of the recession is being done on precarious work, as demonstrated by the shooting and shooting evolution of the temporality rate. Counsellor, in 2013 the temporality rate was 22.5%. Now it's 26.7 % Recovery, growth, wealth, it turns out that precariousness has increased by four points. And here we also have a worse evolution than the Spanish average, because, as IGE, Galicia and Poland say very well, we lead the precarious rate in the European Union. Counsellor, is this the recovery model of what the Galician Union is satisfied with, a precarious labour model, low wages and low value added activities? Because that's what's happening. Since 2013 there has been an increase in the occupation of hospitality, commerce, cleaning, surveillance, TTEs, and declines in the primary sector, in the financial sector, in telecommunications and in the car industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u63	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u64	Since 2009, 35,000 industrial jobs have been lost. Industry contributed 18% of the occupation when you started ruling, and now it's 16%. And the same is true of the primary sector, which has lost 20% of the people working in it; a very worrying fact because in this period, in the Spanish state as a whole, employment in primary activities has grown by 3%. I'm going to finish. Less work and therefore more unemployment. The number of unemployed people in Galicia has increased by 23% since 2009, while in Spain the variation was by 2%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u66	Unemployment increases 11 times more than in the middle of the state. And I'm done with three questions. How can you explain this to Galician Union? How can you explain that Galicia is the second community where unemployment has increased since 2009, only behind Extremes? How can you explain that the number of unemployed people had dropped 24% in Balearic Islands, 20% in Navarra, 10% in Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u68	...while here you grow 23%?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. You have the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Counselor, firstly, I would like to thank you for your presence. I have the feeling that some people change their names every four years, when they present themselves to the elections, because they can think so that the world starts from zero. But, Mr. Lago, you weren't born on September 25, but you started to die. You've been, therefore, you can't come here to make tabula raza, to appear in this gallery and say that you just discovered the economic crisis, something you didn't know, it's Feijóo's fault. You come here, do a paraphernalia, but you forget it's a crisis that has affected all over Europe. It has affected Spain in a very special way because no measures have been taken in Spain. You guys didn't know where they were then. They'd be thinking about getting a name for election four years later. But the reality is that there was a crisis and we were working here to get Galicia out of this crisis well. You were not sure where, and now they come here to give lessons that we, of course, did not share. Listening to them, we believe that you don't believe in Galicia, because recovery is an undeniable reality; a recovery that is not a government achievement, is a achievement of society as a whole. And after listening to him, what we know, what we know, what we're sure of, is that you didn't participate at all in that achievement of economic recovery. That's why they're here today participating in this negationism of reality, participating in that catastrophe: everything is fatal. You know how to do it right, but the Greeks, who are fools -- as this fellow of yours says -- and they are alienated, can't recognize in you the solution to a crisis that, when generated in this country, you didn't know very well where you were. Look, as it couldn't be otherwise, from the People's Group we fully shared the three fundamental objectives of this Government which the adviser exposed in his intervention. We need to consolidate economic growth and put it into solid roots. We need to speed up job creation by fighting to make it more and more of a quality. And we need to extend consumer protection as a guarantee of the well-being of our citizens and their freedom. This group and this government often have to hear about the opposition, about the economy, that we live in an unreal world, that we don't go out into the street and that we are possessed of triumphalism; that's what you tell us. From the Galego Nationalist Block, we're told by self-comprehensive analysis. I'm not going to give you an accelerated lesson in economics, industry and employment. I think there are much more authoritative voices than I do in this House. But if I'd like to make a reflection today, I'd say almost linguistic. The dictionary of the Royal Galaga Academy defines the word realism as fidelity and detail that manifests itself in representing reality. You are set up in negationism, catastropheism, and we do not practice triumphalism, we practice realism. To represent reality with the greatest possible fidelity and detail, let me make a small press lecture in recent weeks, in the last few days, something that usually does Mr. Abel Losada. He didn't today. Let me do it for you. "Galice closes 2016 with the lowest unemployment rate in six years." This one didn't bring her, you see she didn't care. "Galice closes in 2016 with 18,500 unemployed less and 17,100 more busy." "In 2 out of 3 Galician municipalities employment was created last year." "The Galician households with all their members in unemployment fall to a minimum in a lustro." This one didn't interest them either. "Galice is again leading the naval industry in Spain for the first time in five years." This one also didn't interest Mr. Abel Losada, who usually comes here with the press dossier. [[Applause]] "Textil, engine and equipment goods lead to export to a new record in Galicia." They're not interested in this either. "Galice increases her sales to the United Kingdom, despite the shadows of Brexit." "Galice culminates in last exercise growing to 3.7%, the highest rate in eight years." On the same page we can see above: "Felipe VI blesses with a national innovation prize to the pioneer for drones." Pick up the award from the Industry Advisor. Ah! this one won't go away, this one wouldn't bring Mr. Losada or Mr. Manuel Lago: "Compost it destroys jobs for the first time in five years." Look, that's what makes us different from each other. And that's what's different from what we rule thinking of the general interest and those who govern trying to defend their own plot. Suppose the mayor of Santiago would say that this is a coincidence, that guilt is his legal situation, which is strange, or would be rock and roll, the case is that Santiago actually comes out of this path. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I think we could be accused of triumphalists if any of us heard of saying that Galicia is at the Champions League, but that's not what we told us; that was that, we didn't. They could call us triumphalists if we came here to promise the legitimacy of full employment. It wasn't us, it wasn't us, it was you! We could be branded as triumphalists if we said all those things. Of course, we believe much more in a revenue that we use to grow 3.3% and create 17,000 jobs in the last year than in those of the Socialist Party, who co-governed with the Nationalist Galego Block in a Bipartite than today we don't know whether or not they assume, but in any case, Mr. Manolo Lago was there. So we have nothing to learn from these recipes. With you the economy was decreasing at a rate of 3.4 percent; therefore, Mr. Lago, no lessons. They destroyed 35,000 jobs in 2009; that was their revenue. We, of course, are proud of everything we've done, but we're not going to claim that model, the failed model. The problem is we don't know that it was a failed model, the problem is that the Greeks know it. The only ones who have not yet realized that this model was failed, and that you have led Galicia to that worst situation you were talking about, are you, and you don't learn. They didn't learn in 2009, they didn't learn in 2012, and after listening to them, we have a feeling that they haven't learned the lesson of September 25th. Look, we're going to continue working to open up Galicia's economy. Here's the export record that bothers you so much! We're going to work to open up the Greek economy. If something has shown us the study of economic science over these centuries, it is that the countries that best develop in all aspects are the ones that have the most open economies. We're working in that direction. It is only thus explained that populists of every sign, who need permanent confrontation and base their rise in economic crises — like many of you — are always those that oppose the progress and openness of societies and economies. This is the only way to explain that Mr. Las Mareas de Podemos and Mr. BNG have exactly the same position on free trade treaties as Mr. Donald Trump or Mrs. Marine Le Pen. They don't like to be told. I understand, Mr. Sánchez. They don't like it, but they have the same speech as Mr. Donald Trump and Mrs. Marine Le Pen. It's reality. They're talking about economic indicators, about putting numbers in green, and there I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, the data are talking for themselves. When you ruled, GDP dropped by 4.5%; today GDP grows by over 3%. The unemployment rate in the last year has grown by 32%; 50,000 unemployed more in the last year of Bipartite. Today unemployment drops by 10% per year. Today we're talking about 24,000 unemployed less than a year ago. Social Security affiliations with you were down by 4.7, with us going up by 2.13. Industrial production index, but what are they talking about? With you, you were down by 20%, with us the IPI is up by 4.1%. Exports, historical record. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that what distinguishes us from each other is, of course, the policies, the results of the policies and the macroeconomic indicators, which, as much as they bother, are on the table to see what we are talking about. The Councillor today came to talk about specific issues: the 2020 autonomous strategy; the rural training and entrepreneurship programme; the investment recovery action plan; the second phase of the Rozas industrial technology programme. He told us about the implementation of the industrial competitiveness path 4.0; he told us about the implementation of three innovation consortia on aeronautical, bio-economic and industry 4.0; he told us about the amendment of the Research and Innovation Promotion Act. The councillor announced a new employment law for Galicia and showed the arrangement of a contract for employment. But of all that you didn't want to talk about, because you're installed in that negationist speech, in that catastrophic speech. Our roadmap? More industry, more innovation, more openness in our economy, better competitiveness, more and better jobs, defending consumer rights. What's your roadmap? We know you perfectly well, Mr. Sánchez: close Reganosa, close Endesa's thermal power plant at the bridges, close Ence, close Meirama. They're against the marine wind, they're against Rozas, against the expansion of PSA-Citroën, against everything that could mean future opportunities for Galicia. Clearly, it's hard to negotiate, it's hard to agree, it's hard to reach agreements with those who are installed in negationism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u72	...and that they're installed in that, the worse it goes to Galicia, the better it can go to you. I think they should be corrected. They've already had a good correction on September 25th. You keep looking forward because all Galicia is wrong, only you are right. Counsellor, of course, has a warrant coming from the polls on September 25, which says that the road map of the last few years has been the right one. Keep on that line, because we're only going better than bad when those who don't want to accompany are against Galicia; because it's better to go alone when behind us what we have is the vast majority of Galicia reflected in the election result of September 25. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u73	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. You have the word, for the reply, Mr. Economics and Employment Counsellor, Mr. Count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, I'm a little surprised because I don't know very well, after listening to the different interventions, that we came to talk about here this morning. I thought we were here to talk about the strategic lines of the council and, therefore, that we were here to talk about industrial policy, economic policy, innovation; that we were here to talk about the future, that we were here to talk about proposals, and I am surprised that the intervention of the opposition is simply following statistical tables, that logically we have to evaluate them, but in no case are we planning and talking about the future, and especially industrial policy, innovation policy and, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, quality employment creation. I think it would be a good exercise — and I, of course, came with this intention — to know what targets you were not in agreement with on the part of the Government. I think it would be good to do that exercise. Because I spoke here about industry, internationalization, innovation, financing, energy, I spoke about administrative simplification, I spoke about the protection of the Greeks... and I think it would be good, as I said to them, to put us in line with what; it wouldn't have to be so complicated. Then we could talk about how, but I think in an appearance of this kind, and once the Government raises what their goals are, it would be good to know that you don't agree with them. I insist that we could build and debate how we could even discuss priorities, but the first is to know what we agree with, who we agree with and also with whom we want to make and develop each of the policies. I sincerely believe that this should be the exercise, beyond — I insist — of the analysis — which must be done too — of the evaluation of the different statistics. I'd tell Mrs. Presas, since we're on the day of the mother tongue, that changing the letter, because toxic, propaganda, austerity, advertising... this is recurrent, and I think playing with the same words will give her the same result. I think I should change the letter; I don't know if the verses, but, of course, the letter I think so. You tell me about common places. And what is a common place for you? Because I have not heard anything about your thinking about innovative public purchasing and whether or not innovation policy should really promote the creation of innovation consortia, which is certainly the policy that is being marked by the European Commission in the spirit of the year 2030. I didn't hear you talk at any time about Rozas, and I'm not surprised. But I don't hear you talk about specific matters of industrial policy. So when you're referring to this government building common places, I'd like to know, because I'd like to identify in which we agree, which I think is the way forward. If you refer to statistics, they have a lot of reading, they don't talk about exports. Never in the last four years, never, Mr. Lago, never had an export cycle in which exports were so much increased, never! And that is a clear reflection of how the competitiveness of the productive fabric is moving to international markets. You tell me about false autonomy. You should know perfectly well that the Labour Inspectorate develops more than 33,000 performances every year. And that the Labour Inspectorate also has, among its objectives, logically, to fight against irregular employment and, in particular, against false autonomy. I believe that when he speaks and addresses this government with which he dedicates himself to commercial policy, man!, I am the only commercial policy to which I devote myself is to working on the impulse, visibility and internationalization of our companies, he dedicates himself to that. If you understand that this is commercial policy, I do, indeed, because I owe it to companies to create jobs and create markets. Several interventions referred to having location. Let me agree on what it is, once again, because I'm in my intervention of what I've talked about is how Galicia should locate and fix here in Galicia industrial fabric. And I failed them, in particular, with an investment capture plan and a plan to fix industrial fabric here on which no one made any reference. I'd like to know if you're in line with the impetus of the Industrial Implementation Promotion Act. And I'd like to know, therefore, whether you agree with the fact that we simplify and work at the Galician Summit to further simplify the administrative processes. I would also like to know whether we agree that we should promote a protocol of good practice with the municipalities, so that the councils are also involved in industrial policy and therefore develop good practices, from the point of view of administrative agileization that must be done by the councils and from the point of view of taxation that apply the councils in their industrial development. I think it would be good, therefore, to talk about that protocol of good practice too. Just as I understand that investment-fixing policy has to be directly linked to innovation support. When we talk about the location and when we talk about the balance of this government and you refer to the automobile, why don't we really talk about the work that has been done by the sector, by the Citroën factory, by the workers and by this government today, we can talk about a blockage of the automotive sector for ten years here in Galicia? Isn't that a location, from their point of view? Is it not to locate that, in fact, linked to the new K9 van, there are 500 million euros a year of billing? Isn't it to locate, gentlemen, that thanks to the second model, the V20, there are 250 million euros in billing in the automotive sector? Isn't that for you to locate? Localize, for you, isn't developing an industrial and technological pole in Rozas, with the contribution of 150 million euros of public-private investment, to generate industrial fabric and generate investments in Galicia? Fixing industrial fabric isn't supporting the development of a Goodleit investment for milk transformation in Curtis? Ladies and gentlemen, the reality of Galicia, thanks to the development of industry, thanks to the development of industrial fabric, and to the knowledge of our universities, technological centers and the government's own performance, is completely different from what you want to reflect on your data. Mr. Losada, tell me if I'm a magician. The truth is, I've always been fatal about magic, but I'd like to because I think it's a very interesting activity. But of course, man! say all the data, because it doesn't mean... the play of magic is noticed in your intervention. You don't want to talk about that Galicia has increased the industrial production index. The actual output in 2016, 4.1%, and in the State the increase was 1.6% —4.1 Galicia, 1.6 Spain in 2016 —. And he came here to tell me about the post of orders in Galicia in December 2016. If you go to the 2016 data, you will see and will check that at the 2016 order entry in Galicia, Galicia was the third autonomous community with the highest order entry. As you can see, if we've come to talk about statistics, we can do it, but I think we'd bring nothing -- I insist -- in the policies and actions that we should do, and we should agree on what. Indeed, the international border is an outline with which we have to be vigilant because, logically, it affects us, except Mr Lago, who lives in an autarchy and therefore only considers what is happening in Galicia. But, indeed, we have to work on the impact Brexit can have and the impact that certain policies — which this Government disagrees with — of a protectionist nature. And what we're going to try, logically, is not only to accompany our entrepreneurs, but, logically, through the state, to defend the interests of our economy. Galicia has increased 49% of its exports since 2009, so the consolidation of economic recovery is directly related, precisely, to the evolution of exports. Therefore, the international context is something that we must logically take very much into account. Let the PSdeG tell me about renewables, about his history, because I think we have to talk about the future, not the past. I've come here to talk about the future and therefore to plan a pact for energy. But, of course, if you tell me about the past, I have to remind you, Mr Losada, that the energy deficit you left was EUR 30 billion; and that the cost we had to pay all the Spaniards for the introduction of certain renewables was annual commitments of more than EUR 6 billion in premiums. And yes, that situation had to be corrected, Mr. Losada; and there had to be a difficult reform of the electricity sector in Spain. And now, corrected by that deficit, Mr. Losada, the Government has called for a auction of 3,000 megawatts of renewables because the Government aims to meet the 2020 target and therefore boost renewable energies. I think, Mr. Losada, that's where we have to agree on the future and identify how Galicia can regain that leadership. We have done so along with the wind sector during these years of difficulties, and of course we will do so, and the wind sector will have us by its side to continue to boost renewable energies. Mr. Lago, you in your analysis seem to have identified no kind of economic crisis or international crisis between 2007 and 2009; it seems that this period for you doesn't count. Man, I'm sorry you came here to find a headline. He may be very well. Honestly, it doesn't have any kind of content; as you said, it's an opinion. But from 2007 to 2009 nothing happened in Spain, nothing happened in Galicia! Looks like the Bipartite didn't govern and it doesn't look like Zapatero either! It looks like... it looks like... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if you dare, I think with excess verbality, to qualify or try to qualify the performance of the Galician Union for these eight years. You can see what the result is, because you were talking about the balance of three legislates. I don't know how you then value the management of Government Zapatero or how you value the management of the Bipartite. Because, of course, everybody here denied the crisis, remember? Remember there was no crisis? Do you remember this at the 2008 elections? And of course, later, logically, there was a price that neither the Greeks nor the Spaniards deserved a bad performance and a bad policy of both the Socialist Government of Zapatero and the Bipartisan Government here in Galicia. [[Applause]] What is clear is that since 2009 we have been correcting policies. I don't know whether you agree or not that the policy of compliance with the public deficit has actually led us to a path of control of public debt. We are the autonomous community that has increased debt during the whole crisis. And you know that with that management Galicia has avoided having to pay EUR 3,000 million more debt; you know that we have kept and are maintaining financial autonomy; and above all you know that you are allowing us — when Mr. Losada told me about the distribution of wealth — the biggest tax discount in Galicia's history. 98.5% are paying less for the income tax of natural persons; 99% of the Greeks are not paying inheritance taxes; and those who bet on dynamizing rural know that they will benefit from zero taxes. I therefore believe that an important effort is being made and, above all, as I said to them, with a vision of the future. I, ladies and gentlemen, sincerely — and I hope so in your reply — want to talk about what, what we agree on, what we can push forward in the field of industrial policy, in the field of economic policy, in the field of innovation policy. And once we identify what, we can certainly debate how and sure we can discuss the different priorities. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. There's a special round of government double clarifications. [[Pause.]] The Parliamentary Group of the BNG has the floor to Mrs Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u76	"Don't sow joy, / in heart or effort." I even gave him a poem, Mr. Conde! I don't know what else he wants us to prove to him that, really, we're not always on "no" and on catastrophe! [[Laughter]] But logically, there's data that's there and we have a different reading, so we're different political organizations and projects, almost antagonistic, I dare say, but I don't want to offend you with those adjectives that you don't like so much. You see, in the replica, you've lost that button with which you arrived today. Look, I'll make you a request and a recommendation for the rest of the legislation. Actually, there are arguments that are not solid and that are cheated. Because, really, having the opposition only ten minutes to evaluate that the analysis is different and that the proposals have different nuances, that their strong argument is that we ask few questions and few proposals, man! for I must learn, perhaps, to speak faster, but, of course, we have made quite a lot and quite concrete. And, really, not that way, because that's why we're doing it to make the climate of the debate worse and it's going to be complicated that if you really want to accept any proposals, we can have time to materialize and defend it, right? I'm going to the concrete. For example, R+D+i. Do we agree that, as you said, is the key to developing a future economy for Galicia? Yes. What's wrong? We don't agree on how, for example, we don't agree with the budget for R+D+i. We made a concrete proposal, we asked a question: "Will you consider the Government for the budgets that we will discuss within six months that rises to 1% of GDP?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh They stop bragging about GDP rising and make a corresponding R & D+i effort, for example. We're talking about statistics, actually, because statistics show that we're going wrong in R+D+i too. We need to see, for example, the evolution of companies with innovative activities, and it is worrying to the extent that the data referred to to in the case of Galician companies are the ones that hit the state average. In fact, if the state as a whole remains the corresponding data for Galicia, we note that the rest of the state increases. How are we not going to be worried and worried? But let's talk about that strategy. What's the matter is he won't want us to solve everything in ten minutes. Also for lack of time there were things that remained in the inkkeeper, in mine and in his. Because I'd like us to talk about the wind cannon here. What will the Galician Union do in front of the wind canon if that will have an effect on consumers' and consumers' bills? Is your assessment of the wind cannon the same as you did before January 27th? And as we want to talk about the future instead of going into the retail, I won't have time to respond to his argument against the wind power of the Bipartite — which, of course, I'll tell you what I stand for — because instead of talking about the past, he talks about the future and tells me what he's going to do before that predictable imposition of the wind canon. Exports, for example. I'm worried that in Ourense exports the data will reveal stagnation. So, what corrective measures will they apply to that particular aspect? From the relocations. Well, I'm a training philologist and not an economist like Mr. Lago, although I'm worried about percentages, I like to talk about semantics. If you want to talk about semantics, but you really want to reduce the problem that the opposition is talking about relocations instead of location, when we're talking about a sector that in Galicia has lost 2,000 jobs and that in Portugal has won 6,000, or that the Ceaga report, which is not the BNG, says that there are 27 car component providers with a Welsh matrix that are installed in northern Portugal, is to divert the debate and do it on its part, when here from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego three specific proposals were made for the question of relocation. Don't you agree? Then let's keep arguing. But don't lose weight, that we have alternatives too, because that's a reductionist debate. We are talking about more proposals and specific questions that have been moved here, because we are talking about Ferroatlantics. This is a very specific question we've been asking for weeks: "Are you going to meet the Committee of Workers and Ferroatlantic Workers or not?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh We'll have to go on. Of course, before he spoke of 2008, we're now in 2017, I don't know if we have to wait for the same temporary fan and lose a decade until we talk about it and it's late. So you have to apologize that in the end there are issues that make us angry and distance us. But, of course, for us it will not be left to make proposals, to make concretion. Now, too, be a little honest, because logically, if we're talking about future laws, we're not going to do here in ten minutes the breakdown of concrete proposals. Just like we're talking about these consortia, because we're going to have to see the planning of these consortia in a more detailed way to assess and make proposals in a positive way. Of course, when you come here to be more concrete, we'll do it. We'll also make them to that female entrepreneurship plan if we have opportunities, if your advisors give us an opportunity for that procedure to be participatory and we can bring it closer, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. On the part of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, you're done very well, you're done talking ideology. Look, tax returns never redistribute income, never, and in a crisis context as the current least, Counselor. And that's neither management nor philosophy, that's ideology. So, if you think about that model, it's all right, it's yours, I don't know how many votes, 41 Members, but it's not true, it's a mantra that's not true. When did tax returns redistribute income and wealth? So you're done... finally, I like to talk about ideology here. I recognize that it seems to me that this is the place, of course, of talking about politics at the bar is very good, but in Parliament it is also good to keep a little bit of shape. Mr. Tellado, nothing, since a significant statistical approach is the number of selfies that Mr. President does, because I think we're not going to talk more about statistics. [[Applause]] I want to talk about Mr. President. I want to talk about when it's said to breast-feed in Madrid for compliance with the deficit, and I'm going back to the data. By the way, Counselor, I wasn't the first one to talk about the entry of industrial applications into this Parliament, you were, when you were interested, and that's why I brought you here. And that's why I told him at that time that it was a little bit of a representation, and I said it again today. But if you use it, don't tell me I can't use it. Or is there any special pedigree in the university of CEU San Pablo, which allows us to use statistics that others cannot use? So we all use it. I think it's a bad index, yes; but who started using it was you. The deficit ceiling and the low-tax ceiling are in which non-income households — by the way, Mr Tellado, put the selfies aside — actually, the unemployed all households have fallen in Galicia by 7.3%, but in the whole of Spain by 10.8%. So tell me everything. But I go to the others, I go to those who have no income, those 37,500 homes that are, those are in galactics, you know, but it's a very fucked-up galactic, sorry, very worrying, sorry for the expression. Okay, okay, very worrying. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I know this is like an English club, I know. In that case, Counsellor, that deficit and those tax reductions, what they meant was that in the last year, while in Spain that number of households was down 12.6%, in Galicia it was 13.1%. And they're data from EPA, they're not data from Abel Losada, they're data from PSdG, they're data from Tourin, they're data from EPA. By the way, I am very proud of the Government presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño, very proud, very proud. [[Applause]] And by the way, you were teaching at that time in Madrid, in CEU San Pablo, you know that in a February 2008 board of directors, the first measures were adopted to facilitate funding in a context of a crisis of restriction of funding to the Greek companies. And if you don't know, you do know it because I told you a thousand times; it's good that you don't want to recognize it. I insist: February 2008. You can go check out the minutes of the board of directors. But we're not going to the last year, Mr Tellado, we're going from the year 2009 -- and I'm going to the third quarter 2009 -- not because Mr Feijóo started there, but because it's since the data are homogenized at the National Institute of Statistics -- from the third quarter of 2009 to the fourth quarter of 2017. Homes without income, I insist—no income—do you know what I'm talking about, Counselor?—, in Spain they grew 21%, in Galicia by 88%, from 19,700 to 37.100. This is the result of Feijóo's policies. And you can't ask us in ten minutes... I'd like to change Parliament's Rules of Procedure and have time indefinite, also to speak to Mrs. Presas, Mr. Lago, Mr. Losada and Mr. Tellado. Of course, it's not possible to respond to thirty-seven minutes of intervention in ten, or at least I can't. I know that the intellectual level of certain parliamentary groups allows certain exercises of magic; I am not capable. In any case, I insist: 21% increase, those that have nothing in Spain, 88% in Galicia. It'll be someone's responsibility. From Zapatero? Zapatero ruled in the whole of Spain, which I know. And, man, the Bipartite seems to me too much responsibility. And, by the way, the last one, really. So did you make the new wind competition that brilliant 6 billion euros of investment and 100,000 jobs to correct the dysfunctions of the Spanish energy model? This is the first time I've heard it. It's a novelty, finally, important. The truth is, it was a terrible failure. The truth is, counsellor, was that it was a respite failure, and if not there are the mills.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u80	Finished, Mr. President, two more things. Actually, don't say there's 150 million euros invested in Rozas, which looks like we're talking about James Bond when the mountains opened and inside there was a city submerged. Hey, where's the 150 million invested in Rozas? I don't know how much he's going to invest, and I'm very glad he's been invested. I insist solemnly, I am very glad that he invests himself in Rozas as much as possible. That said, don't fool the Greeks, there's no invested...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u82	...150 million euros. Anyway, I'm not able to calibrate how much there is, but don't keep repeating those mantras that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u84	...they don't respond to reality. And, Counselor, in terms of R+D+i, tell us what you want, but you know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u85	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u86	...Ukraine and Turkey, we're still on it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Mr Manuel Lago has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u88	Counsellor, I've come to talk about the reality of the country and I'll use the differential technique, because it's true that it wasn't Emilio Pérez Touriño that put us in the recession, that's going to have to do with the American subprime market, and it's not Feijóo that takes us out of the recession. We're in an economic cycle that has a huge synchronisation and, therefore, what needs to be explained is the differential. And the differential is: why is Galicia the autonomous community where the most employment is destroyed from the entire state?, why is Galicia the second largest community in which unemployment has grown?, why is Galicia the third largest community in which the active population has fallen?, why are we the fifth community with the lowest wages?, why do we have a precaution rate higher than the Spanish average? And why is our level of unemployment protection below the state average? [[Applause]] But, Counselor, you have to excuse me, because I'm going to fall into Miguel Tellado's provocation. Mr Tellado, I am a member of "In Marea", and we are proud that in Marea is Podemos, that Cerna is with Paula Verao, that is Anova, that we are even those of Left Unida, that is Equo, that are the ecologists, that are the tides. We are proud of our history and our past. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As it seems that in this Parliament a Member may call a party and a parliamentary group with the name he wants, I will do it. When I talk about the People's Party, I'll talk about the heir party of Franco's dictatorship, because the founding father of that party signed Julian Grimau's death penalty... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u89	I call him in order...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u90	...a Democrat...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u91	Sorry, sorry, please wait a minute, Mr. Lago. Sorry, they respect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me, I ask all Members for silence. I ask all Members for silence. [[Murmurs.]] Let them speak to who is in the use of the word. And I also ask the one who is in the use of the word that meets the Rules of Procedure, to adhere to the question and not to use any names. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I'll explain. I'll take advantage of it. When Mr. Tellado talks about the Tides of Podemos, it's no insult at all. No, sorry, I'm in the use of the word, Mr. Lago. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u92	I think so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u93	No, what you think might be. Here you don't insult what if you don't... No, listen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In fact, the parliamentary group is in Marea, and there is no problem and it is formed by several political groups, among which we can find ourselves. Therefore, it is neither insult nor disrespect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, please, I'm asking you to take up the matter or you'll take your word off. And I also ask all Members of all the boards who respect what they are talking about, all of them. Thank you very much. You can go on, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u94	I have a second name that is the war party, because the second founding father of the People's Party put us in the Iraq War, a war they're investigating for alleged war crimes in countries more democratic than ours. I can say it's the party with dangerous drug-trafficking friendships. [[Applause]] And I'm not going to talk anymore because it shames me. I can say it's the corruption party, because the full list of ministers, former ministers, presidents of autonomous communities, concelers and mayors of the People's Party would take us two days... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u95	Mr. Lago, I'm calling the question, we're in a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u96	...to talk about what's the cut-off game...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u97	Mr. Lago, Mr. Lago... [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Lago, Mr. Lago, I call the matter a second time; the third time the use of the word will be removed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u98	...Francisco Franco threatening members of the En Marea Group. I can say it's the Yak party and the Angois crash party. I can say it's a party that has a long history of what I don't know if Mr. Tellado feels proud how I feel. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm gonna finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u99	Mr. Lago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u100	...I will end by pleading precisely to the presidency of Parliament. My group is called "In Marea", and I formally ask for the presidency of Parliament that when a Member is wrong... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u101	Mr. Lago, you don't have the word because it takes all five minutes talking... it's the third call to order to you, you withdraw the use of the word. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr Miguel Tellado has the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, the regulation is well learned, there's someone who didn't understand it. And I know you're calling Mr. Lago before you tell him what to do in this second intervention because that's not what Mr. Lago does. So, please respect, because you're not in the use of the word, and that makes the Rules very clear. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well clear: it's not in the use of the word. So I ask you to listen to who has the use of the word. And, in this case, Mr. Tellado Filgueira begins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Look at me being moderated because I had a low voice. I'm sorry I offended Mr. Lago because it wasn't my intention at all, and I think in the parliamentary debate it's good not to lose your nerves. Madam Presas, apply the story, indeed, or in this case the poem of Rosaly: "In the sowing of joy, / in the heart or effort". That's what we've been doing these years: believing in Galicia, betting on Galicia and working hard since the government. I think it would be nice for the BNG to abandon that eternal goat of Greek nationalism and stop working for the party and start working for Galicia, right? And, therefore, I think if they follow that path we can find each other. [[Applause]] Mr. Losada, you who denied the crisis are now the ones who deny recovery. I think it's consistent your stance because in negationism is where you're best. And I have to tell you today: do you speak on behalf of whom? What is the Socialist Party? Because I've read the hemorrhage these days, but I haven't read those I didn't want to read to bother you like Mr. Manolo Lago. You were talking about selfies in a comment I made in an interview, and I think it was you who registered in this Parliament an initiative on a tweet. You presented an initiative on a tweet, which two of your comrades signed and then deleted, and you just stood up for that initiative. Don't chill with politics, don't chill with this House. We're here to talk about Galicia. We're here to put solutions where you left problems, and many left. [[Applause]] Therefore, I have the feeling that you come here today not in the name of your group, nor in the name of your spokesperson, come in the name of an emissary who sends you from Vigo to generate more internal confrontation within your party. Stand by the side of those we are in favour of finding solutions to Galicia and leave the internal struggle and that war north and south. I think it'd be good. It'd be good for everyone. You spoke about homes with all your members unemployed. Look, he gave the fourth quarter EPA: the total number of homes in Galicia with all its members in active unemployment has fallen; it has decreased by 6.38 % in the last year, it has down! So don't come here to twist the numbers because I think it's a mistake. Mr. Lago, we won't apologize for bringing Galicia out of the worst economic crisis in our history, we won't ask them. When you ruled, because you were part of that government, the Bipartite, that bad government for Galicia -- we didn't say so, the Greeks said -- GDP dropped by 3.7%, and today it grows by 3.7%. Do you know the difference of going down and up? It's Epi and Blas. With you the GDP was lowered, with us it went up. [[Murmurs.]] So, what are you talking about? [[Applause]] I have to thank him for the efforts he has made to explain to us the gallimaths that are the tides of Podemos. I have to thank you. And I discovered something after his intervention. Apart from an unprecedented level of sectarianism and historic wounds from the sad past to come from a member of the Communist Party of Spain, I discovered one thing after their intervention, and it is that the tides of Podemos are more parties than Members. That's the reality of the minority you represent here. I am proud to belong to a democratic party like the People's Party, first party in Spain, first party in Galicia, not because we want it, but because when we call the citizens to the polls we are voted for. And you guys when there's a call to the polls, you know what happens? [[Applause]] That they're not even able to agree on what name they're in. So I have to give the reason to a member of my party who says that you're not called "In Tide," that you're not even called "The Tide of Podemos," you're called "We Can Dide." It's what they do, it's what they've been doing over the past few months. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counsellor, you have come to this House to bring future initiatives for Galicia's industry, economy and employment. On the other hand, there are closed groups in themselves, telling us about their own problems, they don't care at all about the economy of Galicia, neither employment, nor our industry. They are the same groups that when they have the opportunity they bring to this House initiatives to close companies. I have to tell you, Counsellor, that you will not find in the ranks of the People's Parliamentary Group any Member who comes here to propose the closure of companies. They sit at the En Marea bench, sit there with the complicity of a BNG who doesn't know what he wants to defend and a Socialist Party that unfortunately is drifting. [[Murmurs.]] I hope we can keep our roadmap to continue contributing Galicia to the path of economic recovery and job creation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u104	Of course, on this side we will be able to expect very little collaboration. First of all, because they haven't done well with the analysis, with the diagnosis of the situation in Galicia. And secondly, because there's no provision...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u105	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u106	...there is no predisposition. The worst way Galicia goes, they think it's best for them to go to their groups. We think the better, the better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u107	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u108	The better it's going to Galicia, the better it's going to all of us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u109	Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u110	...and you'd better go to this House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u111	Thank you very much. You have the floor to close the appearance of the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Napoleon Hill said that failure afflicts those who resign themselves to him with indifference. The proposals we put forward today, ladies and gentlemen, for this legislation show that, despite the fact that the main economic indicators make us optimistic, of course, this government does not comply. It does not comply because we understand that this legislation must be the legislate of consolidation, of economic growth, of legislate of continuing to bet on innovation and legislation to speed up the creation of jobs and quality jobs. We have four years in which we will develop measures that contribute to consolidating Galicia as a synonym for Industry 4.0. This is what the Government wants to talk about in industrial policy, that Galicia is synonymous with Industry 4.0, and that it is not only developing the programs that we put in place in the past legislation, but also promoting new digital transformation programs in industry, collaborative spaces that favor the development of new products and also through this comprehensive logistics optimization strategy that you didn't want to talk about. Mrs Presas, BNG's automotive proposals are in the Official Journal. All you were proposing was to question the aid to the automobile and to propose control by the unions. If that's your proposal, I regret to see that you have no vision of the needs of the automotive industry to compete in international markets. I'm also sorry that In Marea in industrial policy has no input; it's to spend time on anything but industrial policy. I understand that Mr. Lago doesn't want to talk about Rozas, he doesn't want to talk about Reganosa and he doesn't want to talk about industrial policy because they simply have no proposals on industrial policy. And, Mr. Losada, I clearly reminded you that you didn't talk about the industrial production index, you talked about the burden of orders and also about the delivery of industrial production, but I just reminded you that you omitted a really important data — as you know — which is the industrial production index. And I just reminded you that if you want to give a data, you can look at what you consider most appropriate at any time, but, of course, giving the order delivery data of the month of December and omitting that there is already a data of the whole year 2016 is at least a curious reference to how you read the statistics, from the perspective in this case of Vigo. In any case, I think we have important initiatives so that this government, this country, can play an important role in innovation. That is why we are proposing specific policies; that is why we want to develop consortia linked to emerging innovation sectors: in the aeronautical sector, in bio-economics and in Industry 4.0; that is why we want to develop a new R & D+i plan; and that is why we want to continue to capture innovative talent and complete the Opportunius and Principle programmes. And, Mrs. Presas, business R & D in Galicia is the fifth in the ranking of the period 2013-2015. Galicia is the third autonomous community with more R & D spending in 2015. And if I go to budget data, I should know that over the past four years, the Galician Innovation Agency has increased its budget by 22% between 2013 and 2017. And if you want an additional data: spending on R & D from the Public Administration in Galicia increased by 10.4%, and in Spain that increase was less than half, 4.7%. Clearly in Galicia we're talking about innovation. Like, Mr. Losada, we're talking about innovation when we talk about Rozas. I talked about an investment commitment in Rozas on the Horizon 2020 of 150 million euros. And you know perfectly well that this breakdown is also credited to the Official Journal of Galicia, because it knows that it is 10 million investments that are already being developed in the Rozas aerodrome, 10 million euros of Feder funds, 24 million euros of innovative public purchase with an agreement signed with the Ministry of Economics and Competitiveness, and that we have already announced the development of seven bids amounting to 14 million euros. And you know perfectly well that there is a contract signed with Indra and Inaer for an investment of 115 million euros, of which 40 million euros are investments from Galician Union and 75 million euros are investments from Indra and Inaer. Therefore, a perfectly known scenario, perfectly committed and perfectly known everywhere. And what we have to do is bet that, in fact, that technological-industrial heart of Rozas can with all its strength. I hope to continue to count on the support of the Socialist Party. In terms of improving competitiveness we have four years in which we will continue to work so that Galicia is a land able to continue to capture investments and to be able to locate investments in Galicia. They do not want to speak when referring to these aspects of automotive, they do not want to talk about the Industrial Emissions Directive and therefore about the investments to be made in thermal power stations to suit compliance with the Industrial Emissions Directive. I sincerely believe that if we want to talk about location and fixation of the industrial fabric, we have to be serious and, therefore, identify which are the sides. And these steps are actually going through a business implementation promotion law that allows industrial projects to be dealt with with with with swiftly and that can simplify their processing; it goes through that protocol of good practice, because we understand that the municipalities have to collaborate also in the development and fixing of industrial fabric in Galicia; and it actually goes through an innovation bet, such as this call for Industry 4.0 of 60 million euros, which will allow investment in R & D in Galicia by the companies that presented their investment projects. So we're talking about turning Galicia into a land of opportunity, fixing the industrial fabric, capturing investments with a specific policy. Just like that programme of innovative financial instruments. None of the opposition groups wanted to talk about funding or the opportunities generated by European funds through innovative financial instruments. The government will continue to support entrepreneurs, will continue to support innovators, will continue to support the growth of businesses so that they can increase their size and become competitive. and will continue to promote exports. Four years, ladies and gentlemen, employment will again be the cornerstone of the policies of the Galician Union. Because with industrial policy, with innovation policy, we can generate quality employment. And here are the targets to create between 80,000 and 100,000 jobs, reduce the unemployment rate below two digits and create or convert 50,000 contracts into indefinite. And to achieve all these figures, ladies and gentlemen, we will support the autonomous ones. No one in his speech spoke of the support of the autonomous. We will invest 160 million euros — which is 45% more than in the past legislation — in 20 concrete measures that we are consensing with the autonomy. We will develop this employment law to allow for a redefinition of active employment policies and, of course, we will articulate that pact for employment in Galicia so that we can give citizens concrete answers. These measures will, of course, complement the promotion of equality and the promotion of quality employment. Mr. Lago, it is strongly uncertain that Galicia is the autonomous community that has the highest rate of temporality, it is simply uncertain. But we will continue to bet on indefinite recruitment, labour stability and corporate social responsibility policies. And, ladies and gentlemen, during these four years of citizens, we will talk about the defence of the Greeks and the Greeks through this plan for the protection of consumers. We're going to boost mediation and we're going to launch electronic arbitration, because we understand that there's a lot of capacity to improve in consumer defense too. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe — so I began my intervention — that it is time to establish bridges of understanding, to walk in the same direction, to know what we agree on and — sure — to discuss how and about priorities. I think we have four years ahead to continue to maintain a proactive position in Galicia, so that Galicia is actually the best country to invest in, work and live in. And I believe that if you add to this the political and institutional stability that guarantees this government and add that it is a perfectly predictable government, we will certainly be able to continue to grow, create more jobs and continue to generate well-being for our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u113	Thank you, Counselor. Before we move on to the second appearance, which is that of the Health Counsellor, I inform you that the vote on the inquiry commission that was pending in the morning will be taken after the motions vote in the afternoon. I shall therefore communicate it to all Members. It will be when the motions have just been voted. And now the two appearances of the Mr. Health Counsellor's agenda are gathered. Mr. Health Counsellor's comprehensibility, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department Like Mr. Health Counsellor, at the request of the GGs. PP. of In Marea, the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block, to account for the facts produced in the Psychiatric Unit of the Hospital de Conxo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u114	The Health Counsellor has the floor to formulate the intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Today I come to this plenary to report on the main lines that will guide our activity and the health of our country during 2017, and also to report on the Psychiatric Unit of the Conxo Hospital in Santiago. President Feijóo's successive governments have always shown special sensitivity to the health service, without any doubt the most important and best valued by citizenship. For this reason, the Health Council will have an budget for this year — as you know — of 3,614 million euros, almost 42% of the total Galician board; figures that clearly reflect the firm commitment and the determined commitment of the Government of the Union by our public health system. The evolution of health since the transfer has been enormous. And although I'm talking about 2017 today, I wanted to give you some data so that we also know where we came from. In 1995, per capita expenditure was in health care of 525 euros, in 2015 it was 1,403 euros. The average cost per person in medicines was 135.38 euros in 1997 and 306 euros in 2015. We were 19,000 workers in 1997 and 36,000, about 2015. There were 36 health centers in 1990 and 393 in 2015. And since the transfers from 1991 to the present seven new hospitals have been built, in front of a single hospital that has been built in the Basque Country — by the way — a comarcal that is currently only open for external consultations. We went from 142 surgeries to 255. And also very important issues: infant mortality was 8.7 in 1990, and is currently 2.1 -- a very significant decrease in infant mortality -- and life expectancy was in 1990 76.88, and in 2013 82.58. These important data do not indicate real activity. In 2016, the number of surgical interventions was 204,000; the number of hospital consultations, more than 5 million; primary consultations, more than 25, almost 26, millions of consultations; and hospital emergencies almost reached the million. This means that Welsh health has evolved in a very important way day by day, improving services but also increasing numbers. And if we talk about budgets, we also make a very recent comparison of the Federation of Associations for the Defence of Public Health — February 14, this same year — which places us, within the seventeen autonomous communities, first, as one of the autonomous communities that has the budget already approved in front of others that today have not approved, but also in those who grow the budget, the expenditure per inhabitant. We're practically at the 2010 level. I think these are significant data. And it is also significant, when we talk about accessibility and how we compare it with other countries of the European Union, that the accessibility we have in our system is total in front of various cohesives which, by urgency, by hospitalization, have in so advanced countries, as economically powerful as Germany, Great Britain and France. But, as we said, we want to express what we are going to do in 2017 based on the Strategy of Sergas 2020, which, as you know, has four strategic axes: comprehensive care tailored to the needs of patients, family members and caregivers; more and better informed patients who can decide; professionals committed and cared for by the organization; and efficient management that contributes to the sustainability of the health system and infrastructure, health equipment and information systems at the highest level. In the area of public health — a very important area because it determines many of the future conditions of our population — since 2017, as a first line of action, we are going to insist on promoting healthy lifestyles and initiatives that contribute to training people in the management of their health and self-care — especially the most children, since childhood obesity is a serious problem in all of Europe today and in all of the developing countries, and we believe that we must have an important impact on it. Lifestyles are still the main determinant of modifiable health, and initiatives such as Plan Xermola and People with Life will continue to count on the support of the Government of Galicia. This work plays a key role for the School of Health for Citizens, oriented to the formation of patients, families and citizens in health matters to improve decision-making in their health and disease processes, to which we will continue to enhance. And the approach to patient associations and the work with them is not only a strategic goal for us, but also a clear contribution to the improvement of our health. And, as I said, with a special impact on young people because they're ultimately part of our future. In this year — this same week — we are going to address initiatives on an important problem, which is known to everyone, which is the topic of alcohol, alcohol in minors, which, as a toxic, is very important for any citizen but more in these ages that are in the process of growth, by the severe consequences that can produce. We will do so by seeking and facilitating the involvement of sectors involved, both health and non-health. As I said, this same week we will launch this consensus table where the administrations — with us will be Education and Social Policy — but also producers and distributors, retailers, scientific societies, journalists, journalists and — something fundamental — families through parent and parent associations. From here I invite all groups to be involved in this problem, and we are logically open to all proposals that can bring us in. Also this year 2017 is very important to focus on vaccine calendars, which have produced so much improvement in the quality of the health of citizens and to those we are going to devote more than 12 million euros to the child's vaccination calendar — as you know, now unified throughout Spain and updated to January dates of this same year — and we are also going to start the adult's vaccination calendar — by collecting everything up to now, we are going to fit it and put it as the adult's vaccination calendar. The colon cancer prevention program, this year 2017, will be fully implemented in the autonomous community. We are already in the implementation of the EOXI of the Coruña and then we will do so in the EOXI of Vigo, moving forward in four years what the Ministry called for as a recommendation: that in 2021 the population was completely covered. Logically, we will continue with early detection programs of breast cancer, endocrine and metabolic diseases during the neonatal period, neonatal deafness detection, and tuberculosis prevention and control programs, HIV-AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases. In the coming weeks, we will approve the new Greek tuberculosis prevention and control program, and we will also improve the HIV infection monitoring system, and we will launch new zoonoses, Zika virus, Chikungunya virus fever and Crimea and Congo hemorrhagic fever, which threaten to enter our area through their vectors, even with some difficulty. And we're going to put in place the Aerobiological Control Galeg Network, which is monitoring the Welsh atmosphere for its great clinical interest due to its allergic capacity. With regard to the prevention of dependency and HIV, we also collaborate with the associations and NGOs working on this issue, and we will increase the control of legionlose, swimming pools, cosmetics, tattoos and controls of chemicals and biocides. In health care, health systems find themselves at a time when new demands for health services, focused primarily on older patients with chronic pluripathologies, require adaptation of existing services and resources. The fundamental goal for this year is to advance this adaptation, especially relevant to these patients. In the consolidation of the stroke care network, we intend to incorporate the advances that telemedicine entails and get early diagnoses and more treatments. Also the provision of a center for the treatment of acquired brain damage, which is a needle that we currently had and that we will be able to create it this year. In the Acute and Help project, for the improvement of attention to cardiorespiratory arrest outside the healthcare field, in public places, are involved, in addition to healthcare and 061, citizenship, through volunteering, and the Society of Cardiology of Spain. Now there's the pilot project right now in Santiago, and we're going to continue to arrive at the end of the year with a device already at the level of the entire community. We are also working on the new primary care model, which includes the German Chronic Care Plan and the dynamic stratification of the population by risk, as a management and assistance tool, with an electronic clinical history adapted to the main pathological process of the patient. We will walk towards a more proactive primary care model, where the reference professional of each patient has the necessary tools to monitor chronic patients from home. It is necessary to have primary care closer to citizenship, which is able to solve — as you have done all these years — a large percentage of the most frequent pathologies you receive, but also to carry out an active follow-up that avoids redundancies or worsenings that occur in chronic and fragile patients. One of the objectives of this legislation is to make the work of health centres more visible from the Community's point of view. The development of Community intervention programmes from primary care will enable actions to improve the health of citizens, thereby involving the health system with residential education centres, or the third sector. We want primary care open to society. The set of the primary health care system faces known challenges, as we said before, such as chronicity, aging and geographic dispersion, for which we need it to be resolute and with adequate diagnostic and therapeutic capacity, to incorporate and evolve new technologies in this area, and to be coordinated with hospitals beyond EOXI and coordinated with social resources. In the care of women, we will continue the development of specific programmes for the prevention of genital cancer, cytology and vaccination against the human papilloma virus, early detection programmes and rapid pathways for breast cancer, family planning, sexual education, prevention of sexually transmitted diseases, preparation for childbirth, care for pregnancy, childbirth and puerperyum, including measures to reduce the rate of cesarean cells, or perimenopausal consultation; continuation of education activities for the prevention of male violence in Sergas, with specific activities at the Galega School of Health for Citizens, in the Knowledge Management Agency (ACIS), and in the Human Resources Directorate. In pediatric care we propose a 2017-2020 plan, with which we want to continue ensuring quality pediatric care, following available needs and resources. We will reinforce the strategy of comprehensive approach to child pain, reinforce the role of nursing — especially in the health care program — and ensure continuity and integration, by defining common protocols and integrated care processes. In mental health, the Plan to Prevent the Suicide of Galicia will be approved in the coming days. The great challenge facing these coming months will be the elaboration of the strategic plan of the Italian mental health 2017-2020. By the way, he was buried at the Interterritorial Council after three years of professional work from all over Spain. It stood on the table at the last Council, and unfortunately that delayed what the elaboration of what could be the strategic plans of the autonomous communities might be. And, of course, we bet on the reinforcement of infant and area psychiatry. We want the plan to be the result of the collaborative effort of a large group of health professionals, patients and other social agents involved. The performances of the plan will be aligned with those described in the Strategy of Sergas 2020, among which the provision of resources for attention to mental illness in the extreme ages of life — childhood pathology and psychogeriatrics — should be highlighted. As for the accessibility of health care, we will continue to develop and improve accessibility through the telephone consultation and the Connecta 72 program, which so good results are being achieved. Telephone calls increased their numbers sharply, with a total of close to 5.4 million queries, of which 99.8% were able to resolve without a need for displacement. I also want to highlight the E-health platform, which represents an advance in the relationship and communication between the Health Administration, professionals and patients, at an early stage but already has an undeniable success. And we're going to work in 2017 to extend the concept of "one-on-one visit", solving on the same day, for the selected processes, the queries, explorations and tests needed to reach a diagnosis as soon as possible. In home care and home hospitalization, we understand that it is necessary to strengthen the role of the home as a place of care, which involves developing initiatives in both areas: boosting home care by strengthening these units — as we said earlier — from primary care, this strong primary care that we need, and empowering and protocoling early hospital discharge programmes, with the involvement of primary care and community nursing. In palliative care, we will favor the patient's permanence in its area. And for that we will establish care processes that ensure a quick response. Improvements in the Greek Palliative Care Plan, integrated into the Greek Chronic Plan, will include improvements in your organization and in the networked work of reference units. We will also renew the Galician Committee on Palliative Care. About hepatitis C, after the magnificent work done by the professionals of the Galician Health System, we are going to start treating the lighter patients, the F0 and F1, and we will detect people at risk of being infected — following protocols now approved also with the collaboration of the Greek professionals — in primary care. Within the professions, as we said, one of the fundamental axes of health for us, as a priority is stability in employment. It's one of the basic lines of human resources management in the public health system in Galicia. We will maintain the annual call for selective procedures for the acquisition of fixed staff status, offering the maximum of squares allowing legislation — 800 in 2017 —. In parallel, we will implement a plan of stability in employment, of more than 400 squares at an early stage, given that we are awaiting the Central Government response to the request for disappearance or increase of the replacement rate, and that will also give us a wide margin to be able to act. And we will encourage voluntary mobility, we will proceed to the implementation of new professional categories, especially the categories of nurse and specialist nurse — particularly family, community and pediatric nursing — and we will continue to advance in the nursing of work, mental health and obstetrics. We will continue with our policy of extension in the active service of professionals, who have been so well received. We will strengthen the principles of reconciling family and work life. We will continue to bet on labour risk prevention policies. We will adapt the salaries of certain groups, such as family doctors, primary care pediatricians and nurses and primary care nurses, to the individual health card. And logically, we will continue to take care of teacher training, which we have excellent health training in our community. As for infrastructure, health equipment and information systems, we have, in fact, an important plan for this year 2017, starting with the opening of the health centres in Pontedeva, Barbados, the Couto, the Snows, and also the construction of the new Ares and Gondomar centers in the coming weeks. But, in addition, we are with projects of new centers; in particular, those of Laracha, Narón, Milladoiro, Melide, Perero de Aguiar, Paderne de Allariz, The Savinyo, The Road, and with the expansion of the Anaphans, the Island, and the Salceda de Caselas. And we'll also carry out new projects. At this time we are talking to various municipalities; among them, Kings Caldas, Cangas or The Coruña. At the hospital we have the great Montecelo. We are already with the functional and space plan — it is now running — and then we will make the sectoral plan. And we will also end the expansion of the Salnés Hospital, of which, already with emergency and surgical block running, we will now be left what are the new hospital rooms of the day. At the Ferrol Hospital Complex we will carry out the drafting of the master plan, at the moment already hired, and we will proceed to the major reform and expansion of the Ferrol Hospital Complex, not only of what is the architect Marcide but also of the Naval Hospital. As for the Ourense complex, because we're about to open the new hospital building, and we'll continue with the master plan. In the CHUAC, in the Coruña, besides expanding the emergencies of the Maternal-Children Hospital and expanding the day hospital, we will continue to develop what is the master plan, besides, as I say, of a new sterilization center and a hybrid surgery. At the Santiago Clinic, an extension reform will be carried out, which will allow us to leave Gil Casares and proceed to a remodeling, both at the Conxo Hospital and at the Clinic. At the Coastal Hospital we will continue with the works already launched of enlargement, at this stage 1 of the master plan. And at the CHUVI we will continue to improve both the Mexoeiro Hospital and the Cunqueiro Alvaro - the CORE lab or the facades and covers of the Mexoeiro Hospital. In the renewal of high technology, because we have from the radiosurgery teams of the University Clinical Hospital to intraoperative TAC in the Cunqueiro Alvaro; and, as we said, hybrid surgeries, both in the Coruña hospital and in the Vigo complex. As for the Blood Agency, Organs and Fabrics, we have the Blood Project, which aims to improve the processes of binding, laboratory and reserve management, transfusion and cellular therapy. In the Galeg Knowledge Management Agency, we will pass the decree regulating the protection and appreciation of the transfer of research. And we will approve the stable recruitment of researchers working in Sergas hospitals, as well as the capture of new researchers with potential to develop lines of research of interest to Galicia. As for the Public Health Emergency Foundation of Galicia, 061, in addition to the numerous assistance programs that we will continue to develop, we will strengthen Progaliam, for myocardial infarction, and the Acude and Help program, which I previously commented, which is a pilot project, with the Red Cross and the Spanish Society of Cardiology, about the attention to cardiorespiratory arrest outside the hospital. To end this first intervention, I wanted to talk about the Conxo Hospital, its psychiatric care unit, and that, on this complaint made based on two specific situations that have occurred in recent months in the area of hospitalization of acute patients, I have to say once again that in recent years there has been no decrease in any of the health resources devoted to mental health in the Santiago area, neither in infrastructure nor in staff, but rather that it has strengthened itself with the provision of new devices. This is the case of the psychiatric hospitalization unit infantewuvenil, which is Galicia's only in service as a reference center of the entire Galician community for this type of patients. At the same time, numerous community and home care programmes, as well as intermediate Community integration devices, have been implemented for these patients. And we can confirm that 100 percent of the vacancies generated by retirement have been covered, including the assistance part of USC-related squares. And with regard to the events in the media, it must be pointed out that they continue in judicial proceedings, and that in both cases the protocols provided for in such circumstances were activated. In this sense, and as far as staffing is concerned, both personnel ratios and preventive protocols were suitable according to clinical indications and patients' pathologies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u116	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u117	Good day to all and all. I will also begin today this first intervention in this plenary, before February 24, the date on which the birth of our great writer Rosaly de Castro, who this year commemorates the 180th anniversary of his birth, reading a poem of his, poem of the book Follas Novas, entitled Jan. "Yan will take wood to the mountain, / John will make baskets, / Jan will go to the vineyards dust, / Jan will take straw to the mill, / and bring the fol to the mill, / and betray the manure to the stable, / and go to the fountain by water, / and go to the church with the children, / and make the bed and the broth... / Jan, at last, it's a bought Jan, / of those which each woman / would suit at least one. - But when you look for a Jan, you almost always find a Peter." Well, going to the subject of attendance today here by the Health Counsellor, I have to start by saying that you come back, Counselor, with several plans and the reference to the same Sergas Strategy that you have already presented here on several occasions, and of which, of course, there is no progress. He comes here today to paint a situation that has little to do with the real problems of Galician health. I was listening to you and reminded me of what little children do, that they cover themselves with a blanket or under something and, as they don't see, they think that the reality that's outside them doesn't exist; or the ostriches, who put their heads under the wing to do the same; then, as they don't see, they think that there's no other world outside. And you did something very similar here today, you passed through some questions like this, made some utterances, and in the rest you put your head under the wing and it seems that the problems have ceased to exist. Because it turns out that Sergas workers — they've had to make a small reference to the issues that are in the media and which are the ones that are really worrying out there — protest to claim from the Board the recovery of their wages. I mean, we are faced with professionals who are claiming that the pact reached at sectoral table in 2008 — sectoral table agreements have the status of standard — suspended by the Government of the People's Party — by its government, Mr Counsellor — in order that the crisis did not allow them to be carried out, which would be recovered as soon as possible. It turns out you suspended it in 2009, and we're in 2017 and it turns out that professionals are still not even willing to sit at the sectoral table to talk about these issues. We found that the other day, last week, in Commission 5th, his Director General of Human Resources dared to say that there were already issues under way and that the workers and health workers would work less and charge more. He dared say something like this. With which, I would be grateful if you could tell us in your next speech what the reason is that you don't even agree to sit at the sectoral table to talk to the representatives of the workers and workers of those agreements that you left suspended; and, of course, at BNG we think it's time for them to recover. You've obviously talked about issues that your board's actions are systematically in the courts. It is investigated if there was prevarication in an ambulance contest of 061, a concession for more than 120 million euros, Mr. Almuña; a concession that the BNG denounced and brought to this Parliament; we denounce that this concession was being made in terms all tending to benefit a company, a company that was preceded by a number of scandals and ill-acting in Catalonia, in Cantabria, in Asturias, in Aragon...; that behind these concessions — some concessions down there was only labour conflict and bad assistance, because it intended to make benefits at the expense of the quality of care; that in front of that company was a member of the People's Party, a person who was a conciliary in Valladolid, a provincial deputy, and who could not be adjudicated in those terms, who was ending up with the Galician entrepreneurship. As always, deaf ears, looked elsewhere, and now — part of the complainant, who is finding himself being denounced by the BNG and the IGC was like this — it turns out that there is an investigation for alleged prevarication to adjugate that contest. You have nothing to say about it; it's these subjects from under the wing, from which you cover your head and then there's no such thing. But if they exist, Mr Counsellor, there are these problems: uncontrollable in the ambulance service, ambulance workers and workers report a whole series of irregularities, which, as I have no time, I will not decompose, but report that companies are standing at their widths, that they are the ones who decide what to do, what is not done, how, how, how, how many ambulances there are, the use of basic ambulances for emergency care... questions of those you don't either... And we can continue that justice investigates for murder two high-ranking charges on the subject of hepatitis C, Mr. Almuña... yes, but it's still there. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The performance done in your council... Mr. Almuinho, even if you don't like it, is that you're there, you're in court. You hear deaf ears, you look the other way, you come here to paint an unreal world and you come here to paint the country of "Galice in the country of wonders." And in health that's not so; that's to say, one case, in the trial; another case, hepatitis C, in the trial... And we can follow, Mr. Almuínña, doctors of the Emergency Service of the Cunqueiro Alvaro have just made public a letter where they say they can't stand any longer, that the situation of the Emergency Service of the Cunqueiro Alvaro is unsustainable, that the personal ratios are unsustainable, that it is unsustainable to the bad organization of the spaces... well, all the issues that we have carried out by active and passive and in which you look to the other side: waiting lists... well, a whole series of questions to which soon in the reply, if I have time, I will make reference—and I hope you speak to some of them-- And I say right away in the reply because now I wanted to refer to the situation, to the events, indeed, that happened at the Conxo Hospital. The BNG, together with the other organizations of the opposition, asked for their presence to speak of this issue calmly, exclusively. You didn't accept. He came here and devoted only 20 seconds to the subject, which is, in itself, like a joke, because it was an accumulated appearance and we were supposed to approach it with some seriousness. But you read 20 seconds, running, and it seems you have no intention of addressing this issue. And in the BNG if we want to do so, because we have already denounced on many occasions that they had totally abandoned the theme of mental health in Galicia, which in mental health Galicia was out of planning, that the People's Party in the board of Galicia left mental health hanging. And these very serious events occurred in the mental health unit of the Conxo Hospital, you can't save them with twenty seconds, Counsellor; you can't do so, with twenty seconds, saying that the subject is on trial and that the resources are the proper ones, because the situation is not right and it doesn't go out with those twenty seconds. The point is that what happened in Conxo puts the People's Party, the Government of the People's Party and you, Counsellor, against the mirror in which the consequences of health policies in general are really reflected, and in the case of mental health in particular. We've been reporting for years the deterioration of mental health, that budgeting was more than inadequate, the lack of planning, the mismanagement. We said that this action compromised the health and life of the patients, and the working conditions of the professionals. We had to meet these days ago that the Galego Mental Health Movement had to report the death of a suicide patient and the complaint a few days before a sexual assault on another patient. These are matters of unquestionable gravity so that — I insist — you have spent a little more time on them. And they are simply the reflection of health policies, because it denounces the Galego Mental Health Movement that this unit has a limited allocation, which often and repeatedly takes away staff from this unit to attend other units of the hospital, that there is a lack of activity with the patients entered, that there is a lack of occupational therapist in the team, that there is a lack of means for coordination and the development of therapeutic plans in which professionals participate and coordinate among themselves, that repetition of aggression to staff is systematic and that, given that this is not the first time that happens — in 2014 other suicides and other issues were already being reported, and that action was requested, in view of that situation, you did not take action. Now you said here that there were the precise ratios, the precise protocols and that the performances were correct, and I'm going to deny you each of those things, Mr. Almuña. First, with protocols, what do you mean, this unsigned role by anyone appearing on this board of ads after the facts happened? Is that a protocol you're talking about? This protocol — by the way, in Spanish — without signing by anyone, hung up on a board of ads, where anyone — can put anyone else — can take it off, do you think it's a suitable protocol? I, of course, wouldn't dare say such a thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u119	And, look, as far as the ratios are concerned — the logo continues — following the forecasts — the Galego Mental Health Movement, drawing up the ratios that set out the documents that are prepared from the Council, there would have to be in the unit: 1 psychiatrist per 7 beds; 1 clinical psychologist for every 15; 1 nursing staff member for each bed; 1 occupational therapist; 1 social worker; and 6 janitors per bed. And it turns out there are 4 psychiatrists in Conxo; 1 clinical psychologist; 7 nursing graduates; 6 ACEE; and 6 cellers. I mean, at least — according to your own data — there would be 1 clinical psychologist, 6 nursing people, 1 occupational therapist and 1 social worker; at least.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u121	With which, protocols no, personal ratios no, and of course, performance with a minimum of satisfaction on the part of the Council since then no, because they didn't meet with professionals, nor did they activate any protocol...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u123	...they didn't open any research to really know what happened...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u125	...and if you can predict...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u127	...—I am finished, Mr President—which is the most important thing in the future, Counselor. With which, I hope in your second intervention you have something more than 20 seconds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u129	...and tell us what measures were put in place to prevent what happened in Conxo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u131	...and which will be put in place so that this will not continue to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Your time is over, Mrs. Prado. Thank you. Two minutes, then make up for it. Two minutes. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u133	Good morning. Thank you, President. The truth is, I'm slightly surprised by the counsellor's ability to celebrate that everything is fantastically, wonderfully. It must be good for the health — and there's Sergas' manager to congratulate him — because the manager of Sergas was appointed as a member of a board of directors of a port. The manager of Sergas in a port, the port of Vilagarcia! They must have nothing to do in the afternoons. Congratulations on that! Remember, when I get to the port of Vilagarcia, that the sea is what's on the left, remember. Well, since health is good, and the manager of Sergas is appointed counsellor for a port, a lack of respect is to appoint the manager of the Sergas councillor of a port in Galicia. That's a disrespect, Counselor. That's disrespectful. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In any case, taking advantage of the appearance, we're going to tell you what our ideas are, what some of the points you've discussed and some that haven't dealt with, to try to give you what our visions are. The first question, about the four points I'm going to touch, is about personal issues. In our assessment, the staff situation is of clear precariousness. There is a European Union ruling — which you know — of September last year in which you find out that in the Spanish health system — including the Greek system, even though some members of the PP in committee said that it did not affect Galicia — people are being hired in a conjunctural manner for a long time when they are taking on structural positions and are therefore being hired in fraud. There are cases in Greece—it is that there is already jurisprudence in Galicia, even though some members of the People's Party had said no— and that produces a deficit, because people are being hired for days, for weeks, for hours... when, in addition, they are structural posts, which leads to, when they arrive, they have to adapt to a new job because one day they are being hired to one place and another day to another. And that infraquality of the system is only supplemented by over-efforts from the staff, which, as I have already warned — because I move what brings me to the professionals — causes situations of professional burn and professional risk, because they have doubts about what they have to do and therefore take more time to do so and they do it with more insecurity. There's a precarious situation -- as we've warned in these days, our spokesperson reported yesterday -- just less than 20% of the 1,000 in Galicia have been hired in recent years, and about a few more than 300 of the last 1,500. So what we want is to denounce is that we are training great professionals — because there is very good health training in Galicia — so that, after all the investment we make in form them, they are taking advantage of outside, the rest of Spain and Europe. We're being the training lab in other places, and we're not taking advantage of them. It must be that there are no patients here or, as in summer, people get sick less and that's why they close their beds. Our proposal in this field is to eliminate the replacement rates, from which we have already presented an initiative in Madrid — we have announced here — we have opened negotiations with the unions — we have presented the initiative — and to make plans for the incorporation of staff in specific terms, also in the field of emergencies rejected it and also in the field of pediatrics rejected it. Backends. You spoke of health centres, Mr. Counsellor, and quoted Ares and Gondomar. Well, I just want to make a reminder. In the 2016 budget position, made in 2015, you spoke about the completion of Gondomar and Ares centers. In memory of the budgets this past year we are talking about the new health centers of Ares and Gondomar. First they would be finished and then they would make them new. It must be that what they were going to finish realized that it wasn't a health center. They also announced the start of the construction of the center of Melide, Pereiro de Aguiar, Milladoiro, Narón and Salceda de Caselas, and the following year they announced new centers in Narón, Milladoiro, Melide, Pereiro de Aguiar, Salceda de Caselas; and the following year they will again announce that of Pereiro de Aguiar, Melide, Milladoiro, Naron and Salceda de Caselas. In hospitals, we have clearly announced our position on the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital: return, for its public title. They were against it. We appreciate the social victory in the case of the enlargement of Montecelo, which forced the People's Party to turn around its intention to do the same as in Vigo, but in this case we trust that the opinion of expanding Montecelo should be maintained and that a new hospital with private ownership should not be made. And yes, we invite you to overcome chaos, as in Gil Casares, as in Chou, where we have already brought some initiative that has been rejected, or in Chuac, with initiatives that we have brought in all cases and that we intend to expose either in the full or in the commission, demanding clarity. We have a good level, a high yield, we would say. If research has been cited a lot, although there has been no increase in the budget, and all health researchers are constantly demanding an increase and an improvement in their conditions. It's hard to bet more on research without making more investment. The reality of the care situation is saturation. I know you're given a lot of the waiting lists and there's non-structural waiting lists because there's an outsourced service that decides who passes to the waiting list and who doesn't, because sometimes the schedules are closed. I don't know why it's so easy to close an agenda and it's not so easy to open it. If it's a book, it opens, and if it's a computer application program, it's long enough to open. But when they're closed they don't count, it's very important to be aware that it doesn't count a lot of people in statistics and that they're actually waiting. But even on official lists, in Coruña: 53 days of half-wait, but 103 days of neurosurgery, 100 days of anesthesia; in Ferrol: 65 days of waiting, 100 days of ophthalmology, 85 days of gynecology; in Vigo: 60 days, 123 days of vascular surgery, hierarchy, 120. All this just to wait for the first consultation. They all break the criterion that Sergas himself wanted to impose on himself. Even though with this approach, you can derive from the private, which perhaps was a good intention. The saturation of the emergencies. We have already brought an initiative here on this subject which has been rejected. In the health barometer, which you also mention to say that the health service is the most valued by citizens — which is, of course — also say that three out of four people value that specialized care is equal or worse than five years ago. Three out of four people say emergency services are still the same or worse than they were five years ago. That's what the last health barometer says, too. We don't say it, I'm from the Ministry, it doesn't make them an anarchist movement. It's the ministry itself that makes that barrier. We have an objective in the health plan, in the care plan, which is to escape that saturation, the waiting one, and make an efficient, really efficient health to avoid those expectations, and not fall into hospital centerrism. But for that, what is necessary? We need to strengthen our primary care. I remind you that there was a huge plan to improve the primary care of that bad government than I do — the two-party government that they call it, the government that chaired Emilio Pérez Touriño — the plan to improve primary care, because, by strengthening primary care, we avoid getting a lot of people into specialized care. But, of course, we have brought here proposals to increase the number of pediatricians, who have a deficit... by the way, in the neighbourhood with more pupils in Galicia, which is New Mesoiro, they have problems replacing a pediatrician, and the oldest province in Spain, which is Ourense, has no service of hieria. With which, you tell me if that's good planning. We defended a reinforcement of primary care, and we defended it with the incorporation of pediatricians, with the incorporation of more staff, with the greatest construction of health centers, with that plan of improvement, which they had, and not promising every year the same health center. Or, as in this year's budgets, include 2 million euros and promise these 2 million euros in all populations, for those who don't get two or twenty for everything they promised, and there's news to prove it. What we do defend is that there is a planning of health centres, which, for example, undermines the cost of Cunqueiro, if not of public ownership. And we propose to increase the professional capacity of health professionals, for example, by removing or undermining the consequences of the decree that prohibits prescription or specifying certain medicines to nurses, such as, for example, that they cannot determine an egg for candidiasis, which is something that is not understandable, because they are perfectly trained. We have, I remember, one of the best levels of training, and I think we share that, Counselor. But you refused that, even though I perceive that there could be some position closer to what we stand for in that case. In any case, we also have an initiative to increase the diagnostic testing catalogue of primary physicians, because it would enable us to overcome the deficit we have at the request of the first consultation, even at the request of the first diagnostic test, because we would overcome one of the barriers of the waiting lists. We believe that it is possible to do so from primary care, by controlling and regulating, that it is possible to skip that space and, therefore, to speed up the system. You talked about vaccines. I can teach you a letter that says - and that you sign it, of course - : "By order of the Health Council for now the vaccine that corresponds to 6-year-old patients is suspended to the new order." The mother of this boy is in this House; I mean, there's no problem, it's not an invention. But the other day you announced that the tetanus and diphtheria vaccine, as the pharmacist says that suddenly you should know that you didn't have for everyone, you were suspended. It's hard for you to assume vaccines. In short, we want to denounce that reality is not so much, and everything in the way of a certain attitude that we certainly believe to be dark. Tomorrow they declare in the trial those investigated by hepatitis C. You said — literally — "Magnificent work of the professionals of the system." Well, not all of them; at least not those two. We have already proposed to you in this plenary that we believe it is not by receipt that the patients' relatives continue to receive the people they are being investigated, and we have asked you to separate them from those functions. We would have done it from the very first moment without anyone asking us to. But we ask him to move them away. It is a moral necessity for families that are seen in front of people who are being investigated by the death of their own families. You said the Conxo is all right and nothing happens. Well, it's okay, but we can explain it to the victims' families, to the person who committed suicide, to the person who was raped, which are situations that I think deserve a much colder, much more necessary analysis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u135	...to do — I've finished, president — calmly, yes, and not mixing an appearance, as when Mine passes through Ourense. I mean, mixing everything in a show here doesn't seem to be a receipt. The context in mental health is very important, and the context is very hard for professionals. And besides, he talked about 061 and he forgot they had a €121 million contract that they gave him to a company that, before the condition nail was published, had already the ambulances fully formed, labelled and arranged. I don't know what the judge will say, but it looks like a huge song to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u137	Therefore, Counselor, I think it is more important to go into reality and leave, at least a little, of propaganda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u138	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u139	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Almuña. Ladies and gentlemen, the cuts kill, do not provide treatment for necessary economic matters in time, or at least worse health. It kills emergency personnel, undermines the resolution capacity of the centers; kills suppresses mental health services, decreases the staff, looks to the other side in the complaints of the professionals; kills wear, the economic vision; kills incompetence, mismanagement; kills cuts and dies from abandonment of public health, while you increase the budget for private and while moving the whole of intelligence, innovation and research into private hands, making us depend on private investment so that we can get the work of ours and our researchers forward; while allowing an indecent failure to comply with the Incompatibilities Act, allowing some to work in the public and in private at the same time, working so hard on what it is all; while transferring all the information to large private companies and while people wait in the long lists of non-structural waiting, one year, one work, two years, three; while you designate high positions to serve and to serve while you do so much to serve while you are in the mortress; while people. Matter doesn't destroy itself, like money, that doesn't disappear, they just go from public hands to private, from everyone's to the enrichment of a few. And while this happens, health and health professionals call them that they can no longer, they shout at them because in March you're going to have a strike of anesthetists in the Chuac precisely because of the precariousness of temporary contracts and the conditions they subject to those professionals who so much suspect. They shout at Vigo's emergencies, in the face of a limited situation at the Cunker's hospital, in that scam; they shout at them that they cannot go on like this because of the lack of personnel and the lack of space, of space!, in a hospital that is less than two years old, Counsellor. Who received that play? Who is now in charge of these circumstances? Months of collapse. It seems now they say they're going to sit with them, because they're probably medical professionals and doctors. And I wonder what the interlocutor is going to send you to negotiate, if you're the manager charged with alleged reckless murder. And while that happens, the workers and workers in Ourense also continue to denounce the situation of emergency collapses and deliver hundreds of signatures, and you ignore, even though the Prosecutor himself said the management responsibility was unique to the Health Council; and while also mental health professionals accumulate years of complaints of cuts and decreases of services — yes, cuts and decreases of services — services. You're still making deaf ears, and today it seems like we're announcing a mental health plan from behind these same professionals, while potentials and potentials have to keep protesting about their precarious working conditions -- we'll treat you tomorrow as well in this plenary -- and while you're listening deaf. Do you think he's doing his job well? Do you think he's doing well and deserves the salary he earns as a counselor? Do you think, in addition, that it is okay, when the Board of Auditors again warns that they are ineffective in hiring, that there is no truly centralized management of contracts and that there is no strategic planning for the acquisition of goods and services? It says the Board of Auditors that they are using subjective criteria to award contracts at the Health Council. It says the Board of Auditors that there are major deficiencies in maintenance technical services, those that you privatize and then don't control. And you've already told him in the summer the Board of Auditors that you've been spending, that the accounts don't match the budgets and that they're still increasing investments in private health. That management, that mismanagement, impact when there's not enough staff, when the staff is precarious, when there's collapsing, when there's waiting lists. And in the meantime, accused, accused, with accounts that do not fit, and while you place that manager of the Galician Health Service, Mr. Campa, on a council of the Port of Vilagarcia. Are they really telling us about renewal, transparency, democracy?, really? While public health rubs off, you split the board of directors. Counsellor, they have just approved, precisely, some budgets in which the doubt of privatization is not dispelled. Tell us what you're going to do with those clinical management units that are still appearing in the Budget Act. Tell us why you keep a 21% cut on the budget when you arrived; some budgets that do not have a resource for that mental health plan that you say you are going to do, for that woman's health plan, for the implementation of those nursing specialties that you say will be done and there is not a single penny, to apply a law of palliative care that you have named it today and that you have been in force for two years; some budgets in which you also spoke, in attendance, in the commission, about that water and polle control, and I ask you -- we haven't forgotten, last year there was a strike of pharmacists and public health pharmaceuticals -- you will privatize the collection of samples for water analysis and beaches and remove their jobs, that employment, that task, the pharmaceuticals and public pharmaceuticals? They brought accounts confirming eight years of inability to make a public hospital in Pontevedra, eight years of inability to expand the Ferrol hospital — 1.9 million euros are not enough to extend the hospital. Some accounts that still condemn primary care. Today you come to assume here that I don't know which primary care plan. You hear when everyone complains, when the professionals of the 061 claim, those who warn that there are delays every day and you wait for emergency care, that they exceed calls within 10 minutes, 12 minutes, for lack of staff; who are reporting that it takes up to 50 minutes from the call to care due to lack of personnel. That's very serious. They are using ambulances — which should be for exceptional cases — with only a medical technician, a single health technician who is either driving or attending to the person who goes behind. We've been transferred that there's been some death. We say so in the Health Committee, and the People's Party has voted against, once again, to withdraw these services for urgent care. Snippets kill. [[Applause]] And you're not worried about the state of mental health. It took, as already said here, a few seconds to clear up a subject that had accumulated in this audience. We don't want to be demagogic about this. If we bring him in and ask for his presence, it's because it's very serious. Because if there are complaints about the decrease in services, it's not true what you moved here. You know that three residential units have been closed at Conxo's hospital, you know that they have amortized squares, you know, besides, you know, as you said here already, that these nurses, these nurses, those assistants, those professionals of that service, move in when there are collapses in other services to cover other attentions that are not the psychiatric. You know they're not covering up with psychiatric nursing specialists at nursing stations. You know they opened the psychiatric hospitalization unit of childhood without a clinical psychologist's dowry. They've been waiting for five years. I don't know what you're saying. And I'd like, please, to explain to us the next time if they're actually going to do some kind of research about what's going on. We don't want demagogy, we want real research, because those people who die because of the cuts, those people who make their health worse because of the cuts, they have names, they have surnames and they have families, just like those who were here this morning waiting for them to vote for a commission of inquiry. Nothing else, for now, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u141	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. The first thing I wanted to make you see, after the attendance of the opposition voices, is the ease that some have to judge and condemn people, people who are under investigation and who are directly convicted. I expect reactions when these investigations end. And allow me, Mr. President, to start with the theme of the conxo events, in case I haven't had time. I, with respect to the subject of the sad events in the conxo hospital, in the mental health unit, can say that the case is under investigation by the authorities and that we have to respect the professional secret, which makes it very difficult for health managers to explain the matter and prevent this spokesman from having any information that can pass on to this plenary. On the other hand, it seems that some people did not respect a patient's privacy by facilitating the media data that would make it clearly identifiable. You will never see this spokesman use these unfortunate situations, which, in any way, could occur in any health service, for political debate. I also doubt that service professionals are very happy with their attitude. And then step by step, Counselor, speaking of his appearance. We would like to thank you from the Popular Group for your presence to explain the general lines of action of the Health Council in the near future. And in the face of generic and repetitive assertions of the opposition without any data, without any figures, about the defeat and the evils of the Welsh public health, you come to report projects towards the hopeful path that has our public health; a health that has effects, as could not be otherwise, and in what must be advanced in the improvements that lead to their resolution, and that has timely pitfalls, such as these dates with emergency saturations by the flu peaks, but that has nothing to do with the third-world and catastrophic situation that we want to see from the opposition groups. That there are saturations in emergencies is a reality. Haines in Galicia, there are in other autonomous communities, there are in other countries. He recently commented on a head of service in the Coruña, who specialized in the United States, that in American private hospitals in times of flu, there were also beds in the corridors. To claim that Galicia is on the verge of healthcare in Spain is undoubtedly a test of ignorance of reality. In Galicia, in these times of crisis, you, Mr. Vázquez Almuña, and the people who preceded it in the Council were able to maintain solvency and increase the efficiency of our health system; they were able to build a new and large hospital, the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, de Vigo; they were able to reform all other professions of hospitals in the Galician public network; they were able to build an important number of new health centres, to repair other deficiencies, to provide new primary care materials and the CAP; they were able to assume health centres managed by the municipalities, those in the local pact would all be assumed in the year 2009 and there was neither the first; they were able to acquire new technologies in diagnosis and treatment, TACs, resonances, mammographs, accelerators...; they were able to rationalize the prescription of drugs, those that in the local pact would later use new technologies that were used in the central government and there were not the first; they were able to increase the prescription for drug use. The extension to 100 percent of the population of electronic recipe and clinical history was pioneer. I can give him faith, who was working in primary care. We have a computer program in Galicia, the IANUS, which is a national reference and is constantly evolving, with new applications weekly. And there are also new technologies that allow telemedicine, facilitates the relationship between care levels and prevents in many cases displacements and disturbances for people who use the system. Innovations derived from Hospital 2050 and Innova Saúde projects are and will be in the near future important tools to improve assistance. Recently it was introduced on the phone of my older family members the new application of Sergas, the one of Emergency 061. You put the name and number of the TIS and automatically, from a mobile phone, on a direct marker of the application is marked and 061 has the filiation data, has the clinical history data and has the geolocation data of the caller. I think this is a very important step forward for the future. You can present the best figures in healthcare and waiting list since there's data, last year 2016, which you've already counted here: an average global surgical duration of less than ten days and a half to that of the previous year, a wait of just over sixteen days in priority 1 patients, a wait for the first sick consultation at the hospital of 47.3 days, the best figure of the decade, and a delay for 58-day diagnostic tests. If you go to other autonomous communities' websites, you can compare. You'll see that Galicia's figures, which are the ones that are noted there in blue -- it's not very big the graph -- are the best in Spain, really similar to those of uniprovincial communities, and with the exception of Basque Country, as can be Madrid, Rioxa and Asturias. Only those four communities and Galicia have all their processes with an average under three months of intervention. The rest we're not talking about anymore. In attendance figures, surgeries increased, increased outpatient surgery, increased hospital consultations, increased diagnostic evidence, increased rapid care, increased primary consultations, telephone consultations, Connecta 72 and emergencies. In short, Mr Counsellor, the figures of health care are little in line with the view of the Italian public health described by the Members and Members of the opposition groups. The different surveys of satisfaction and the health barometer show an opinion of the Greeks and the Greeks that is far from what they want to transmit from some associations, platforms and political groups about the reality of our public health. It is clear — and so I saw it in the budget debate — that everything can and should be improved, but we know from the People's Group, the majority of this House thanks to the votes of the Greek citizen, who is working from his department to improve the health of our people day by day. And from our group we urge you to continue on that road of daily improvement to achieve more ambitious targets every day. You spoke, and the entire program you present or the strategies you present are related to the Sergas 2020 Strategy, which talks about patients, professionals, sustainability and infrastructure and equipment. Sergas' 2017 budgets have an investment of 3,614 million euros, 101 and 204 more than the years 2016 and 2015 respectively. This economic amount represents 41.9 % of the total budget and a management responsibility on the part of the entire management team of the Council, but also on the part of all the workers and workers of the Greek public health, so that it can continue on the path of efficiency and sustainability that has not been maintained in some autonomous communities and countries around us. So far we've been talking about the fact, and you've come here to talk about the future. He talked about the problem of alcohol consumption in minors, important problem in minors, bottle problem, and problem in adults. But avoiding consumption in minors will avoid the problem of abuse in adults. He spoke of vaccination calendars, of children — national — and of adults. He spoke about the extension of colon cancer seizures in 2017 to the entire autonomous community, also of other screening programs and the implementation of some more chronic cancers and even of the seizure into neonatal diseases. He has spoken — and I think it is important — of the Greek Tuberculosis Prevention and Control Programme, an infectious disease that is missing behind the younger ones, behind HIV or behind hepatitis C, and that has been and is an important health problem that has, in addition, easy infection. You spoke about the Ictus Care Network and the Acute and Help program — which is the early attention of the cardiorespiratory stop. Controlling and improving attention to stroke and cardiorespiratory arrest will give us significant improvements in survival and avoidance of complications among these patients. And, indeed, primary care needs to be re-adapted. It was being re-adapted, but you have to do it now. We need to adapt all health structures and personnel to the new situation of chronicity and population aging, advance in the use of telemedicine and teleassistion, open primary care to society and new times that come together, increase even more the resolution capacity of the population, adapting the ability to diagnose, treat and incorporate new technologies into primary care. It is important to strengthen the units for home care, to protocol early hospital discharge programs — early, early, not premature — that were said on some occasions in this Chamber by quoting or blaming professionals or accusing professionals of things we do not do — for control with proper home support with the collaboration of primary care professionals. Of course, palliative care must be enhanced, and we must collaborate in the prevention and fight against violence against women — again and sadly in our community — today. And on the subject of mental health, we find it important to announce the adoption of the suicide prevention plan and the forthcoming elaboration of the strategic plan for mental health in Galicia. It also seems to us that we need to highlight the effort required by the extension of the single visit, that a person goes to the doctor and that in a single day they do all the tests, if you give him the diagnosis and even the appointment for surgery directly. He talked about improvements to professionals, commitment to stability and demand for removal of the replacement rate so he could convert the most interim staff into fixeds. Progressive integration is also important in the next OPE of 2017 for specialist nurses, always respecting the rights acquired by current professionals. It has to be progressive, but it must not stop, it must start and it must be done now. We must promote voluntary mobility with open and permanent competitions, reorganize professional categories and reconcile family and work life in health, which is tremendously difficult because of the need to attend 24 hours a day. You mentioned health centers that will be built or reformed in the near future. He also talked about equipment in primary care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u143	...of reforms and enlargements in the network of public hospitals in Galicia. He cited technological equipment that is planned to incorporate into the system this year 2017. Tac will be incorporated, PET will be incorporated, magnetic resonance imaging, image platforms, accelerators... in short, a complete description of the future of public health in Galicia that we support without any doubt from this parliamentary group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u144	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica from the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u145	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, every time we come to a meeting we know that we're not going to find a lot of initiatives that can give us opposition, and I think that, basically, because they have no interest at all, they have no interest in doing so. So, they come here, read Rosalía — which I think is very good — they bring press clippings and they want to convince us that they're worried about Greek health. I don't think they're worried about Greek health, for nothing, for nothing! In fact, of the important problems that we have here at the first part of attendance, because initiatives, things that we want to do, we don't talk at all. Of childhood obesity, of alcoholism in minors, of what we understand and we try to make everyone cooperate, nothing is said. The real problems, I told Mrs. Prado that I'm hiding my head, that I don't see the problems, and so on. Budgeting, planning indicates that we want to improve. Health will never, never, ever be well, always be better, always. But that's why I gave the data at first, before I started with what I wanted to develop in 2017; that is, where we came from, where we are and where we want to go. That's clear, and Galicia, I think, did it right, I don't say it, I think there's a clear history marked by that step, that transfer from health care to the Galician community, which has been given. And it compares with the Basque Country, an autonomous community with an important economic endowment, which started from a much better situation than Galicia thirty-six years ago, and all this time it needed to do a single hospital, and it's a comarcal, which, as I said, is not working, and Galicia, however, had to do all the hospitals it had to do, the health centers, and with the funding that at this time — as you know well — is under discussion. And logically, in discussion because I think we should improve it. And from there, what the Health Council wants, within the goal of the Union, is to improve services, and for that, logically, we analyze each situation and try to prioritize, because many of you talk like the king's powder, as it is not ours, here we have to pull out, pull out and pull out. Look, health is what it is, and public services are what they are because Spanish citizens pay taxes, and because of them we have to do proper management and prioritize what we think is essential. We can't say what they tell us, that, over the course of time, they tell us that there are closed beds and that counsellorship does nothing. Ah! but when we open them, when there's need, when they need them, they criticize us too, because they're closed and now they're open. They are because needs mark the situation, they are marked by professionals, and logically health managers have to adapt the situation and prioritize at every moment. Mrs Prado said I didn't sit with the unions, probably because I don't do many press rounds in that sense; of course I sat with the unions, and we explained the situation. Mrs. Prado says, yet, with no head. Well, if I sat down with the unions, and we were talking about what can or can't be done. And I have to say — which she didn't say either — that last year the growth in Chapter I of the Health Council — in 2016 — grew by 5.8% and this year by 1%. So we're going up and adapting. What happens, why can't we say we're going to recover what was suspended in a moment of economic crisis? Because what we have is to analyze the situation as it goes throughout the year and be able to make those decisions. Precisely, this year there is a recovery of games that have been lost because the Board did what it had to do, which is meet the deficit and have a game to dedicate to it this year's budget, precisely to increase and do what it has to do. And if the economic situation continues to improve, logically for good management at the national level and also at the autonomous level, we can talk about other things by 2018. But we don't do as the Bipartite did, that the famous Plan improves me already comes out everywhere, because if you talked about the Plan improves, but it was all paper, there was nothing behind it, and we're not, we'll talk about something, not illusions, when there's something solid on which to base it. That's the difference that we have, that you have. And unfortunately, it's still going on. We're talking about what we're trying to boost primary care and we're still saying no, that we don't want, that we want to privatize everything, end primary care, end everything. So we're going to look at the models and we have specific things where we're going to fly this kind of change, that kind of change of primary care, which is proactive primary care. We have a lot of older people in the countryside who are having problems, even if they are out of their home, isolated, and we have to be with them, we can't wait for them to reach the health system, the health center or the hospital, we have to be in touch, well-enhancing — as we said — home care — is a resource that exists, but that we want to empower — but also with new technologies. The new technologies are going to help us and have to help us, and we also have European funding, precisely because Europe wants to know how to pay attention to this type of population, because it is reaching all over Europe. We are probably from Europe, with other autonomys from Spain, that we have this problem, moving ahead with what they're going to have shortly, and logically they're very interested. And we're going to try to take it to different health centers already established by EOXI -- two by EOXI -- where we're going to establish that reinforcement of what home care is, but also contact through, as I say, new technologies and be able to do and get ahead of what's coming to us. Look, the role comes here and a series of data, that everything is poor, everything is a disaster, and it said to Mrs Prado, even what were the protocols, what were the needs of each... she came to say — so I say that the paper and Parliament are all holding up — that, according to this, six cells per bed were needed. I understand you've been wrong, but just as you said that you could say the opposite, exactly the same, because you're not absolutely based on anything, and get here and take a picture of a board and say that's where the protocols are, because it's an easy thing for a photo, but nothing else. We really don't want to fix anything at all. Look, the theme of Conxo, of course, is a sad issue, a subject with which we are not logically happy, that we are acting — as I say — with all we have to do, but, as the spokesperson of the People's Party said, we have data. We have to respect confidentiality, and the research that is taking place, they are producing and they will reach where they have to come from, but at the moment we are talking about, when, for example, the subject of suicide, all the staffing — the full amount that had to exist at that time — was completely covered. But there are times when the opposition uses dramatic facts — which really happen, and happen in hospitals — that's how to make politics, and I think that's not convenient, and we're not going into that controversy. We want the problems to be solved, we want them to analyze themselves, to investigate how the facts happened, but, of course, there was all the resources we had at that time covered by 100 percent, and, as I say, with the best professionals possible; because when it seems critical that professionals are criticizing themselves, and we have some magnificent professionals doing a difficult job, and, as was also said here, working 365 days a year, twenty-four hours. The health service is difficult, but we have the great luck — for me — of the professionals who are with us, who do this magnificent job. And we said, too, about the situation in Galicia. Yes, Mr. Torrado, you speak easily of what is good or what is not good, for, man, you find yourself so proud of the Bipartite, of your party where Mr. Pérez Touriño was the president, because you have a government friend at this moment who has the lowest health financing of all, which is Andalusia. The truth is, I don't know if you're also in the demonstrations of Andalusia, of Spiriman and all of them, protesting against him. I suppose they'll do what they can there, but, of course, with much less budget that makes Galician Union, and Galician Union clearly has a concern about health, the improvement of health. And as I say, we keep working that way. We're also talking about staffing, retirement, the replacement rate, which we've already asked the Government of Spain to disappear or, at least, to diminution, that we can hire even more than we have right now. But there are other aspects that don't get sorted out from day to day, such as the topic of pediatrics. Pediatrics is a subject of training that depends on the ministry, which does not depend on the Government of Greece, and we also indicate that it would be appropriate to increase the training of pediatricians. But, of course, it's not because we have a bad pediatrician, we have a pediatrician that reaches all over Galicia, but it's true that we have that limitation. We asked, we asked to be able to do it. She's also talking about Mrs. Solla — not the first time or the last time she's talking about killing — that the cuts kill. Well, it's a phrase that has printed it and it's been with her for the rest of her life. But to tell you that in the emergencies, for example, of the Cunqueiro Alvaro, curiously, there are more staff right now that there were in the General and the Mexoneiro together, and yet there are more than a hundred emergencies less a day than there were between the General's emergencies and Mexoneiro's emergencies, and I don't know where the cuts are. The truth is one day the president can draw my attention and say that we're putting in a hospital that unites an emergency and turns out it needs more staff, but not only it needs more staff, but it's said that there's little staff at the top. Well, the truth is, it's hard to explain. I don't want to sink into that either either, but I was telling Mrs. Solla if I think I deserve the wages I have, because I probably don't, but neither do I honestly. [[Applause]] Because to say, as Mrs. Solla says, that she doesn't want to do demagogy when she only talks about cuts, of killing, of privatization, which is the same thing she spoke about three years ago, two years ago, she's exactly the same, she doesn't change anything at all, I think it's something that doesn't make much sense. I say that I think we can analyze, we're delighted to be able to receive everything they can tell us to improve the system, we're delighted with that, but today's morning seems to me to be not going to be the day, unfortunately. If I mean — before we finish this second intervention — one thing, let it be clear. I was saying that on the subject of hepatitis C he did a great job on the part of all Sergas professionals, included, and especially these two people who are being attacked by people who don't know them, who don't know their work and talk about it. But unfortunately, and because I say that I know very well what these two people did plus the other members of the commission, I think we have to be proud of the work of people like them, doing many hours out of their regular time so that the quality of life of the health service, of all patients, is better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u146	Thank you, Counselor. Replica round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u147	Honestly, Counselor, you said before the paper holds everything, and this tribune holds everything. That's why you just did it a few seconds ago, you should almost disabling it to be in the position you're in. To say that there are two senior officers of the Union, appointed by the People's Party, who are being investigated for possible murder in the case of hepatitis C, neither says BNG nor the other groups, says the prosecutor, and is the subject of judicial investigation. And you come here to suck and say that we must be proud of the work done. Well, I suppose for you on the one hand it's going to be the legal issue and political responsibility on the other. It's obvious that you have no political responsibility, and when there's legal results, because I don't know what you're going to do, but, of course, it says very little to you what you just do right now, because the minimum... They're incapable of ending it, but, besides, getting out here taking a chest... from then on... unqualified! [[Applause]] I'm going to start with the subject of Conxo, precisely in case I don't have time. It's just that we're not faced with a sad subject. Sad is something that happens because there's no way to solve it, because it's done everything possible, and on the subject of mental health, not that it's not done everything possible, but that it's looking elsewhere while it's reporting year after year, and month after month, what's the situation of mental health, and one thing is judicial research and judicial responsibilities and other political responsibilities. When you are warned of being active and passive about the problems, and for any answer, you get the inaction of the leaders of the Galician Union, of course I think you have to qualify for the subject of something more than sad, something more than sad. And we have to take responsibility for these issues, because the lack of means has been reported; we have been strongly denounced what the state of mental health is, and when there is a consequence that people die because of the performance or lack of action, it is therefore worth assuming responsibility, and when a person enters a hospital, precisely to avoid taking his life away, and precisely gets it from this hospital, at least you'll have to know what happened. And when that turns out it's not the first time it's happening and it's a recurrence, you'll have to investigate what's going on, if the media that's being made available are the right ones and if all the mechanisms work. And, of course, I insist that you can't deal with the frivolity with which you're paying it here today. You can't get away with that frivolity. And of course they have no intention of investigating, nor of knowing what's going on, they're leaving the professionals alone, who have to be witnessing at the judicial headquarters, without the administration if they're giving them any kind of support. Of course, that, in itself, is already serious. But well, towards the future, Mr Counsellor, professionals demand that there be a reinforcement of the therapeutic purpose, which is not being the situation at this time; that there be a sufficient supply of professionals and with the appropriate qualification in these units; that people who need to replace are not called from the general list, people who do not have any kind of training to address these issues; that participatory, coordinated forms of work are being implemented; that there be spoken among the professionals; that there be lines of communication, that is not the situation at this time; that clear protocols and instructions for work are being defined with potential risks... and the question is whether any of these requests are being made by the professionals, Mr Counsellor. I insist, I would like you, in your next intervention, to have something to say about it. I, Counsellor, with regard to the question of staff, told you that you don't want to sit down and talk to them about salary recovery, that's what I told you, and that's the constant negative – on your part and on behalf of your general directors – of sitting with your professionals about the negotiated and committed salary recovery, and that the People's Party suspended in 2010, after it was agreed in 2008, that it was put into practice in 2008 and 2009, and that you suspended and that we are in 2017 and you don't even want to sit down and negotiate with them. And it turns out that the People's Party doesn't want to sit down and negotiate or listen to the workers, and doesn't want to listen to the people, doesn't want to listen to society...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u148	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u149	...because the next question, Counselor, is, why don't you want to launch the area health councils? Why does it not want to put in place the mechanisms set out in the Health Act during 2008 and which established the existence of health councils where organised society is represented there and has to say what is the health policy, what are the issues being put in place, how do you feel about health policy? Why don't you want to listen to the people about what their health policy is? I would like to, Counselor, at any rate, to have answered some of the questions I have asked you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. I must admit that having seen the background of previous appearances, in the other plenary sessions and in this one, I must thank Mr. Núñez Centeno for his tone, which compared with his colleagues, I think he did the intervention in a healthy and constructive tone, despite the sorrows. I thank you personally. Still tell me I haven't given any data, I hope that as data does not count the number of selfies, we're going to get a little more serious. Because you say I didn't give data, and the counselor says we don't present initiatives, it's the problem of bringing back the written replicas. Data. I give data, for example, as I gave to the waiting lists, the ones myself, uh!, the ones that give the board, that say that the data is much worse than the board itself accepts; the board sets the criteria, the board doesn't meet the criteria, the board does nothing to stop fulfilling the criterion. And it only gives you the data you want, sets the criteria and gives you the part of the data you're interested in, and still doesn't meet the criteria' data. Of course, it's very complicated, and I'm still wondering where that data is. Yes, I have waiting lists here too, we can check them out, we can check these waiting lists. Yeah, yeah, we can check them out, it's okay. Neurosurgery in Coruña, 103 days. He's here on the waiting lists. I can go on, eh!, and give a lot of them, no problem. In staff, less than 20% of the MIR are left in Galicia. Budget growth by 1%. But how much executed? Because budget... we share one thing, the paper supports everything, but executed? Of course, because if we budget, but then we don't execute, we have less. By the way, I've already asked the question: How many Sergas workers? Why can no one answer me? Because they're budgeted, I know how many, but I want to know how many they are. Data, health barometer: 3 out of 4 Greeks say specialized care is the same or worse than five years ago. But, well, the most consistent data the People's Party has given here is that in the United States, in private hospitals, the problem of emergencies also happens. They're all happy, we're going to ask you here to come over Donald Trump, and we can ask you to explain. It's okay. No one asks you for explanations, Counselor, because if you open your beds, the only thing we say, at least we -- it's a logical process, we're not at much intellectual level, we're already told too much -- is that if you open your beds at some point, they're closed before. So when we said that there were closed beds, it was that there were them, because if they were then opened they were closed. It's all we're saying, but it seems good to open up, because they're necessary. As it seems good that there's an application for older people, okay, an app, it's okay, I hope it wasn't the [...] in places where the coverage doesn't come, but it's okay. I think that's positive, one more measure. Even so, what I think the elders want is not to pay for their medicine, as they paid, uh, what they don't want is the coop. It's okay with the App, but what they don't want is the coke. Of course we don't want to talk about judges, but what's not acceptable is that as things are, they don't talk about judges. Isn't it important? Aren't you talking about important issues? We want to talk about judgments. There are judgments, as they have at the Hospital of Pontevedra with the Department's Services or the Psychiatry Service. They have judgments, they can do something, because they want to talk only when there are judgments. There's no problem. But of course, the problem is that we have to talk about it and there are no explanations. There were no real explanations about what happened in Conxo. There were no real explanations about what happened to hepatitis C, although he listened, sometimes I think it was better not to listen to them. I'd better not have listened to them. There were no explanations about 121 million euros in an ambulance contest to a company that everybody said they were going to give and that they already had the armed ambulances and the logos. There were no explanations about these judgments to the CHOU, which I said. There's no explanation to the demands of hospital staff. There were no explanations — we asked them here — about what was the forecast plan and the subsequent assessment plan of what happened to the hospital emergencies. It's just that there's no explanation, but we're presenting initiatives, we're presenting that, which they've put behind us. Of course, there is a problem with the training of pediatricians, and of course we want to contribute to it, which is why we are presenting a commission initiative, which is why we advocate that more training should be given, and that it would not be solved overnight. You're right, Counselor, that's why we're presenting a multi-year plan, and we literally say, "It can't be solved from day to day." If we agree, where we do not agree, then I voted in favour and you voted against. Of course, you guys go up here saying the same thing as we do, and when you have to vote, you vote against it. Then don't find us what you don't. What can't be deceived by these things, Castelao said: "The noble and loyal struggle of ideas is what ensures progress." You can't tell what it isn't. The Bipartite improvement plan, it's already a bit sick of the plan of improvement, well, that's right, we'll talk when there's something. They've been ruling for a while now, eh! A little while, for me, for you not so much, it's okay, we discuss it, but if they're going to talk when they do something and they're eight years old, maybe it's time to start talking. We also present initiatives on the prescription of nursing, which helps to unravel the health system, and expand the catalog of diagnostic tests, which we know nothing about him, which helps to unravel the health system, as all professionals say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u153	And they vote against all that. They don't tell us that we don't have any initiatives, which is a difference in criteria, you vote to manage health to go to the tram, and we believe in public health, because we're very proud, we're so proud of public health that we contribute, with the complicity of citizenship, to believe it, and you've been against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u154	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u155	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Counsellor says he doesn't seem to know about the opposition initiatives, I want to remind him that you have just approved some budgets in which you have systematically voted against -- as they do every year since they have absolute majority -- of all the amendments to the opposition. I must remind you, too, that there is a 5th Committee, and that there are debates here, where there are non-law proposals from the groups, perhaps you should be more attentive and do your work. Call my attention that you say you speak for speaking when we talk about, of course, it's a scandal that the board has people charged with not providing the treatment of hepatitis C, people charged with alleged reckless murder. Who speaks for speaking, Counselor? Are you talking about the affected and the affected? Are you talking about the families of the people who died? Are you talking about talking to the prosecutor? I find it unwise, too, to act, and I think you're wrong, and again and again they insist on something that's not true: the legal responsibilities on trial are not the political responsibilities, and I don't know what's going to happen with that trial, but I know there's political leaders here, and I remember why I was in this House at some of the votes in which I voted against providing the treatment of hepatitis C to the sick people. You weren't, I did, and I saw them crying, and I saw them often. There are no political responsibilities in that. You think they're above good and evil. I'm glad, however, of something, that you recognize here that beds are closed, you've been told now by the PSdEG spokesman, and that's why they have to open them, so then they have to open them. And I'd like you to clarify — since we are — whether the concessionaire is charging for the rental of beds in Vigo, because I'm not quite clear, and I'd like you to answer me. He didn't answer the rest of the questions that are being asked here either. You know, you've been clearing rooms for lack of space in a hospital that hasn't been open for two years yet, but we don't know what was going on with those beds. You spoke of a plan in primary care, the improvement of primary care, that we are catastrophic. The primary care professionals were reduced by 1,154. How do you want them to care in rural areas, how do you want them to care for primary care? Why do they come up with something they can't do? He's talking about boosting home hospitalization. How? How in Ourense, who had to displace the professionals from the comarcas hospitals, withdrawing them to take them to CHOU because there were not enough internists, because there was a collapse that you were still refusing to admit in this House, and are they still refusing to admit today? Now you're talking about treating the sick and hepatitis F0 and F1 patients. When this honourable Member asked — and I imagine the other health voices — whether these treatments were going to be done, as the affected and affected ones we asked were asked, you answered nothing. They didn't answer that they were going to do those treatments, because you, as you have nothing else, have to come here to make some kind of ad to try to cover up your health management is just like that of the advisor who was stopped by his mismanagement. And you're talking about, and you're assuming high-tech investment, when you privatize high-tech, and now we have to pay more for an intraoperative TAC and hybrid surgery, because you didn't put it in the competitive dialogue. 9.4 million euros. And I ask you -- I ask you another question, go and write down -- where is the General Hospital's intelligent surgery? He's been locked up? Is he still dying of laughter? Where is it? Because they just bought it or they're gonna buy a hybrid surgery and we had a smart surgery. What about some of the machinery, furniture and public resources that you're eliminating? I'd like to know. You talk about job stability, you spread your mouth — they have the ability to do so — when they follow professionals protesting for their precariousness. They have a strike of anesthetists in March, they have ongoing protests from potential staff. But you here can say anything. Indeed, the role bears everything, and the gallery of Parliament seems to support everything, and you can say things that are obviously not true. And by the way — and I'm going to finish now — the CHUVI emergencies, please!, 190,000 adult emergencies served the General Hospital, 50,000 the Mexoeiro, 175,000 now attends the Concumber because they have reduced the surface and the boxes. They don't have the ability to meet everything that reaches them through the door, how do you [...] move here that there are the same resources or more resources to meet the emergencies? [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] If you have solved professionals! If you don't take care of Vigo's public health! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Before it collapsed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u156	Thank you. Finish it, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u157	...—now finished—the center—and you should know—when 500 attentions were exceeded. Now it's collapsing when it's over 350, and that's because there's not enough resources. You don't like to hear -- already told -- that the cuts kill, it sounds hard, right? It sounds hard, it's hard for families you deny the possibility of knowing that your relatives died because of the cuts. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Mrs. Solla, we remove the expression from the hard face. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, of course, my tone has always been this way in life and will continue to be this way, and politics will not change it, don't doubt it. I, moreover, had an ejacism here, a joy in this Parliament, because they called me Centeno in my school — I told you once — and you put the Cloud on me, and you almost bothered me a little, but, well, we're leaving it. I spoke of the United States for not talking about the Bipartite, which cuts are enough at the time of the Bipartite. Well, and speaking of youth, this debate reminds me very much, Mr. Counsellor, the Masses in Latin, those that were with the priest or with the cure of their backs to the people and besides they had those litanyies, that Kyrie, election, Christe election and pray for us, which repeats itself here, repeatedly and repeatedly, in all health debates. And it's really a continuous litany, a tense repetition of sentences, evasiveness and situations. And in addition, it's clear that opposition groups are giving their backs to people, although it's better for the Greeks and the Greeks to turn their backs to opposition groups. I was telling Mrs. Prado that the PP doesn't listen to the people, it gives me the feeling that it's the people who don't listen to opposition groups. This group has already recognized on several occasions that not everything is perfect, of course, has nothing to do with what is being heard here, here or in committee chambers, in Commission 5a. We have a very good public health, it is the envy of almost every country in the world; we have an efficient health, which has recently been recognized by the Bloomberg Agency as the most efficient in the world — referring exclusively to public health, without including private health — we have one of the highest life expectancy figures in the whole of the advanced countries; we have the system of more consolidated, supportive and with the best results; and we have a population with a high degree of satisfaction with our public health. And with all this, we have opposition groups who are committed to discrediting our public health, and also, on many occasions — when we talk about high money or high premature pressure and many other things — to discredit our professionals, and, of course, our health managers; who seem, like the members of the House's majority group, who are in this world alone and exclusively to do wrong, to burden us with public health. For this spokesperson guarantees them, ladies and gentlemen, which is not so, from the People's Party we defend and will always defend public health. The Greek citizens rated the government a few months ago in the polls, giving a large majority to the political group that I represent today in this forum, and the results do not allow discussion. That's why, Counsellor, we urge you to continue with the health policy of rigor, efficiency and sustainability that has been developed since your arrival at the council. And to comply with the electoral programme of the People's Party, with which all the Members and Members of this group, and you yourself, present ourselves to the last elections. They participated in their elaboration — and I have faith — various groups of professionals, associations of sick people and scientific societies. A clear program, with concrete measures, that will enable us to advance in the prevention and treatment of different diseases; with specific attention to the health problems arising from chronicity and the ageing of the population; with an improvement in the health education of the population with a healthy lifestyle, with eating habits, physical exercise and self-care that achieve good quality of life in advanced ages. To meet all these expectations you have an budget that, I suppose, would like it to be higher, although it represents almost 42% of the total expenditure of the Galician Union. We know the difficulty of doing everything we need when money is limited. That's why we urge you to prioritize and reduce expenses in parts where you think it can be done. Time comes for technological advances and, essentially, pharmacotherapeutics, which will have a very high cost, and it will not be easy to include them in the benefit catalogues without endangering the solvency and sustainability of the health system. We must work among all — I invite the opposition groups to do so — to continue to maintain and expand the system's benefits, but without leading it to its failure, incorporating new technologies and drugs, whenever they represent a real advance in diagnosis or treatment, but respecting the solvency of our public health. You, Counselor, and your predecessors, have been able to maintain the health system in the difficult times of the past few years. We hope that now, with the beginning of economic recovery, our public health will continue to be the fundamental cornerstone of the state of well-being in the face of the problems of care and future increase in the expenditure resulting from the ageing of the population. From the People's Parliamentary Group, we urge you to continue working with your entire team and all the professionals in Greek health in this loving world of health. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u160	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Close shift of this appearance. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, good morning, it's almost late. The truth is, I want to finish by talking, precisely, about what we announce today as a novelty, not what we keep, but all that we incorporate. I mean, Mrs. Prado, the people have already spoken, we heard the people who spoke a few months ago. And the truth, Mrs. Solla, I'm also surprised that the criticism now is that in the CHUVI emergencies, the Cunqueiro Alvaro, are missing meters; I thought it was all the opposite. So, the truth, let's say now that there's no room in the Cunqueriro, in the emergencies, I think it's a general tonic of what the arguments of the opposition are. To say — as I said — that we are going to approve the Greek TB prevention programme; that we are also going to strengthen and consolidate the stroke care network, which unfortunately affects an aging population, such as Galicia; also that we are going to address, and urgently and participatoryly, a very important issue, which is the problem of alcohol at the younger, at the younger, at the younger; also childhood obesity is going to have a special treatment throughout the year; we are also going to finalise and present, in the next few days, the Greek suicide plan, worked with many professionals; and we are going to develop the Strategic Plan for Mental Health 2017-2020, as I say, retarded, unfortunately, because state level autonomy did not want to agree on something so important. To say that at OPE 2017 Sergas will also offer more than 800 places for coverage of regular statutory staff, including categories of specialist diseases, including mental health, primary care and pediatric specialties. And also that in the next few days we will open new health centers in Ourense province and in Coruña province, and that we continue to work to improve the hospital infrastructures of all hospitals in our community, such as the new health centers. New needs, other paradigms, new services. Current needs require the system to evolve to give a proper response. The aging of our population, derived, among other things, from social success and the health system itself to increase survival, along with the chronicity of diseases and changes in the way of life — sociodemographic changes and social and family dynamics — force us to adopt the system in view of this situation. It's not a simple task, because the system is complex, so the best guarantee of success in this adaptation is to count on the contribution, the involvement of all the agents we have in this magnificent organization: patients and citizenship. That's why we want to keep working to improve communication with them and to count on their arrivals. We will continue to innovate, expand services and provide them with tools that improve their information, training and accessibility to services. With the professionals, the essential asset for their everyday work, their ideas and their knowledge, in addition to their participation, we take care of their working conditions, stability, security, training, the reconciliation of family and work life. The organisation itself and its managers, with its commitment to the organization of the system and to use resources in a responsible and efficient manner. Social and political agents, which are fundamental to their proposals and to maintain an adequate climate that facilitates the proper functioning of the system. And also other agencies and institutions with which we interact day by day and without which our work would not be possible. I thank all of them for their involvement and commitment, for the assurance that we will continue to work to provide this great public service, which is health, which we both need and appreciate. Because we have a fundamental goal: to improve the health of the Greeks through the provision of effective, efficient and quality health services; equitably, accessible or sustainable; consolidating innovation both technologically and in the implementation of integrated processes that guarantee care continuity. We also want to continue with the changes the system needs to make to become stronger, to overcome the challenges it will undoubtedly have to face: the reference to population aging, pluripathology, technology and drugs that are increasingly expensive, with adaptation to new information and communication technologies. More and more informed patients involved in decisions about their health and disease. The inescapable needs of prevention and health promotion in increasingly transversal actions and out of the spirit of health. And finally, the new rules of play with the health providers. In summary, the action lines for 2017, which we will develop, essentially aim to improve the health of the Greeks through actions that reduce the burden of disease, enhance tools for the prevention and promotion of health, provide better health care with the best available resources, make real the legally recognized rights and ensure the financial sustainability of the public system through the application of efficient management criteria. The Government and all parliamentary groups have the responsibility to find points of meeting that will enable us to work together in that direction. Once again, I propose that we reach agreements that make it possible, and what we are required to do is what we are called for by Greek citizenship. Finally, I would like to thank all the health care workers and the Health Council for their daily work and the best incentive to continue working for the improvement of our system; improvement of a system that responds to the needs of people, patients, efficiently, during the twenty-four hours a day, 365 days a year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Changes in the development of the plenary session and changes in the agenda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u162	Thank you, Counselor. Before we suspend the session until the sixteen-hundredths, when we restart it, we will comment on other changes in the agenda. Specifically, the third interpellation, 5.3, and question 7.1, which both correspond to the Infrastructure and Living Council. The request was granted by the Government and will be processed in the next plenary session. And also another change in the agenda is that the question in second place, at 7.2, and the question in third place, 7.3, will be dealt with tomorrow, after the questions to the president. These are the changes we have on the agenda. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? No, we suspended the session until 6:30. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[The session is suspended at 3:10 p.m. and resumed at 4:30 p.m.]] G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government and the action to be carried out in relation to the difficulties of families for the payment of the receipt of light
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u163	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[(G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Abel Losada Álvarez, through the spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 151.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendments to this motion: Amendment.The amendment is to amend point 1 of the resolution part of the non-law proposal, which will be drafted with the following content:"1.-Ask the Government of Spain to address a global process of rationalization of energy taxation, acting on the set of taxes that make it available: the value added tax (IVE), the Special Electricity Tax (IEI) and the Value of Electricity Production Tax (IEPE) which affects the economic cycle; the redistributive function, which affects the redistributive function of income."Additional amendment.You must add a new point (immediately after 1) in the resolution part of the non-law proposal which will be drafted with the following content:"1a.-The Government of Spain will be required to develop a process of strengthening and specializing the regulatory bodies of the energy sector and competition (CNMC), to ensure effective and professional supervision of regulated companies and competition between them."]] [[G. P. Popular de Galicia, through its spokesperson and at the initiative of Ms Marta Nóvoa Iglesias, in the light of the provisions of Article 151.2 and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Replace the text of the resolution of the motion: "The Parliament of Galicia, urges the Government of Galicia to:-Request from the Government of the State a review of taxation on energy, in such a way that the type of VAT and the Special Electricity Tax are adapted to ensure the competitiveness of businesses and the well-being of homes.-Request of the Government of the State to amend the Law 24/2013 of the electricity sector, so as to eliminate the possibility of establishing territorial supplements through which consumers in a territory are intended to pay the full cost of taxes incurred by CCAA or charges on state taxes, for example, and for example]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u164	To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. From the Galego Nationalist Block this afternoon we bring the debate to the motion resulting from the appeal of the previous plenary by the Group of the Galego Nationalist Block around electricity, the difficulties of the Greeks and the Greeks for their payment. We have therefore brought the debate on the electricity market back to Parliament in a context where there are three circumstances that have to make this House not alien to this question: on the one hand, we are at a time of economic difficulty — as we have also evaluated in the morning session —; on the other hand, there is an abusive electric tariff, and that is a decision of a strictly political nature; and on the other hand, all this happens in a country where, being a power in energy wealth, we do not use that to correct our poverty. From the Galego Nationalist Block, we understand that electricity is a first-needed asset, essential today to develop our lives with dignity, and even more in the winter months. I imagine that, at least at this point, we will agree with all the groups present here, both those of the opposition and that of the Government. But what's going on? That the economic situation makes it in Galicia today frankly difficult to take such high rates. It's quite frankly difficult for the Greeks and the Greeks who charge a contribution pension, which in Galicia is up to 178 euros lower on average than in the Spanish state. It's hard for all those poor workers and workers, of whom we remember today morning, those and those who earn less than a minimum interprofessional wage per month, which is -- according to the Tax Agency, not according to the BNG -- the only group in which wage earners grow in our country, according to the most recent data. It's also difficult for all those women who, by charging 77% less than average than men, have to go ahead. And it's difficult in a country where nearly 14% of the population has a partial day — that's 14% of the population — occupied. A difficult situation that we can also assess according to the data we have of energy poverty and which is aggravated by something that is not smaller, which is that there is no way out of it for lack of political will, because we have a government in the state occupied by a political force that tells us that we have to get used directly to having a more expensive electricity bill and because we have a government here complicit in a model of colonial electrical exploitation and distribution where Galicia does not occupy the place that would correspond to us, but rather quite the opposite. We have repeatedly said that the energy sector has a strategic value for us as it represents in our gross domestic product and also as a factor of absolute relevance to industrial production. However, as I say, despite this importance, from Galicia we only have the ability to design or implement an energy policy of our own, a strategy that is geared to endogenous exploitation of our energy resources. And over the years, by successive political decisions — because the debate on electricity is a political debate, not abstraction — by different political decisions, Galicia has been taking a place of specialization in electricity generation. In fact, if we look at the power grid maps, we can see that big peak in our country in terms of production and not consumption, which is most accused in other parts of the peninsula. So until today, for example, the most recent data we have from the Inega, which are from 2012, reveal how our country exported 40% of the electricity it produced in that year. However, despite the fact that the electricity generation has significant social and environmental costs, Galicia has not had the opportunity to take any economic advantage of this activity at any time, on the contrary, rather it has been subjected, as we see today, to a regulatory and tariff framework, common throughout the Spanish State, a tariff framework which is currently completely excessive for the economic situation that they refer to earlier. As far as this homogeneous tariff policy is concerned, we want to stress — before we are called insolidary and insolidary — that the electricity tariff paid in our country includes fees of interterritorial solidarity, as is the case with extra-pensular costs, that in 2013 — last year of what we have available — amounted to 1,800 million euros, amount paid via electricity tariffs. Therefore, of insolidaries, nothing. But, quoting our Mr. President, that one day he told us here that we weren't fools, because we intend to apply the same thing a little bit. It's not a lack of solidarity, but it's a desire to take advantage of those issues that we generate. As I say, in the Spanish State it was generating this single electric tariff procedure, which was detrimental to Galicia for treating consumers in different territories the same way, without taking into account the fact that we did it as producers. However, it is also true that in the new Law 24/2013, of the electric sector, this unique tariff is questioned and the door is opened to other possibilities, as they have already expressed in other towns, as is the case with Basquel Herria. Beyond the underlying debate of the energy model and that since the Greek nationalism we defend that as producers we should have another relationship in that electric market, that is why we bet on this study that is included in our motion of the viability of a Welsh electric tariff, that we would like the People's Party to accept, because, if we are so wrong and wrong, we must prove it and not be afraid to study, but here, in this Parliament, there seems to be always fear to investigate, there is always fear to study and there is always fear to search, it will not be that the prophetic truths that since power we are issued are not so prophetic or so certain... But this motion, as I say, which responds to a moment of concern and to a particular social and economic moment, has other questions that we hope that they will be able to negotiate, and that they will refer precisely to that abusive taxation which has the electric tariff of what they were talking about and what we have already spoken about the other day. The rate that reaches us all and everyone in the house, for example, has a special electricity tax at 5.11%, which ultimately applies to all concepts of the receipt, with the exception of the rental of the counters. This comes to suppose as a double payment of the VE, because, on the other hand, we have that VE in the highest frame. I remind you that the other day, in fact, we extended quite a lot of this, to see how we were one of the countries of the European Union which had a higher VAT. But it's also important to remember that it was the Rajoy People's Party that pushed that tax on the value of electricity that began to apply since 2013. We also put on the table that we are at that time where we look from the state to Galicia to see what happens with that wind canon and others as a result of that initiative that aims to have that kind of territorial supplement impact on everyone's bill. With which, above all, we would not only be beneficiaries of our condition as producers, but would be penalized, which is already the nonsense of the nonsense of the electric tariff. In short, we understand that it is an excessive taxation, that earns an energy oligopolie, that abuses the Greeks and the Greeks and gives us, above all, a second service, as we saw a few weeks ago with the issue of time. We understand that if, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we are all and all agree that electricity is a first-needed asset to which everyone in our country should have access, for then there is no other social and economic moment left to urge the Government of the State to reduce the tax burden on VAT and to revise that taxation, which we understand has no basis at all. And this is precisely what we need to discuss here and urge the Government of the State, because, as I say, getting the electrical bill down is a political decision, it's not a biblical plague that we have to assume without being able to do anything about it. That's, in general terms, what we propose in our motion. We have a number of compromise proposals I'll mention later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u166	Thank you very much. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Presas Bergantiños, we tabled an amendment. The truth is that this initiative moved directly to the post-verity after the intervention of the councillor of the morning, in which the People's Party's wind competition in 2009 — which literally defended the interests that I believe most people know it defended, and that, in addition, they were none, because there is no mill installed — was part of a intended solution to a problem of energy regulation that undoubtedly existed and exists in this country. It's not going to be this voicer who denies that the Spanish energy market has dysfunctions, as it says in some way, that, of course, they make the average energy price very above what should be taken into account the energy mix of what we have. The truth is, when talking about energy — and then another initiative on energy poverty, I persevere in the apostolate — is good to talk about the benefits of the big electricians. The benefit of Iberdrola is missing — which I think will be presented this Thursday. The experts speak of 2,650 million euros, which means that in 2016 the three great Spanish electricians had a profit of about 900 billion of the old pesetas, that is, 5,400 million euros. It is true that a little less than the previous year, but it is true that it remains a highly paid sector. I come back to the press again -- it's a vice you have yesterday -- "The Iberdrola dome points to a bonus -- a bonus is an extra gratification that good managers have to achieve invoicing targets or benefits -- of 115 million euros." Totally, they approved at full rise the price of light for consumers. I believe that it is also a good time, at last, to demonstrate exactly how this gross domestic product is distributed, that sometimes, when I think of it, I see faces of exceptions between the Members of the People's Party. I was actually going to leave the themes of energy poverty more to another intervention, although they are directly related, of course, to the tariff. I'm going back to Damascus. The truth is, I'm putting Syria in fashion, but I return to those fallen benefits from the sky that Mr. Minister was talking about hydropower and nuclear, which undoubtedly means more billing for companies and, therefore, more bonus to the managers of those companies, which, well, is what this is about. This is what you have to govern for all, that we all know that, when some rule for all, one part of them all have bonus and another part of them all have bills of light growing exponentially. This is the stage, unfortunately. There's a couple of questions. We have tabled an amendment which actually only tries to clarify to some extent some questions regarding taxation. We think it's necessary, Mrs. Presas, a global consideration of the tax system on energy. We don't like, in principle, the descent of the VE conceptually, it won't be that those who light up their pools at night in Pozuelo de Alarcón end up benefiting from that download of the VE. I prefer a 21% VE and what I want is a social policy that addresses energy supply problems in a solvent way. And one solvency is not 4,000 -- the Danish population, 4,000 homes -- when there are 37,000 people in Galicia who have no income, I insist, no income. Then there are those who have income under the minimum wage, which in total is only 310,000 busy. Well, I think acting over 4,000 in front of almost 400,000 homes is fine-tuned, Counselor, and People's Party. So, I think it would be appropriate or more reasonable to have a joint tax system that, of course, has to have three fundamental objectives. We want them to be clear. One of them has to do with stabilization. It is essential that economic agents know the prices of production and consumption as far as possible so that they can make sound decisions. This is the basis of capitalist economic theory, but economic theory. Another element: a redistributive element, which I believe is fundamental and must be done from social policy without any doubt. And finally, the role of economic agents' behaviour. And this is directly related to the addition amendment that has to do with the National Markets and Competition Commission. Because what's going on in price matters is that this Marxist question of remunerating the highest generation price is that companies that could produce everything with hydroelectrics don't do it and put gas marginally to produce a little bit with gas and charge everything else they produce, nuclear and hydroelectric — at very low cost — at the price of gas, which is the highest cost. And this is the trick with which there's 5,400 million euros of profits, not the only one, of course, but the most relevant...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u169	...—I have finished, Mr President—and the 119 million euros of bonus that Iberdrola managers will take, that I am sure they are magnificent managers. So, I believe that the National Competition Market Commission that absorbed the National Energy Commission, a decision by the PP that no one has explained at the time and that it has produced a bad result... just see the European Union reports on the issues of competition regulation in Spain. And I believe that these are the fundamental elements — the rationalization of the tax system and that act on the issues of competition — to achieve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u170	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u171	...—Finished—an appropriate rate. And, of course, a very important element for the left, which believes that lowering taxes is not left-wing, which is essentially an active policy against energy poverty. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u172	Thank you, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u173	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs. Presas, the People's Group of course shares social concern about the increase in the price of light that we've seen in 2017, firstly, because it's obvious that expensive energy prices affect much of consumers, and especially those with a lower income level, and secondly because they also affect economic activity and job creation, since energy is a basic supply and can compromise the competitiveness of our companies. As you know, it's an episode of point that happens sometimes and always comes back. In fact, today's average energy price in the wholesale market is 40% lower than it was recorded at a peak last January 25, and it's likely that it will continue its downward trend because it's growing again wind production and hydraulic production; and also by the French market, which is recovering production in its nuclear facilities, which have been closed by security reviews. We agree with you that electricity is good with a high tax burden, so in our substitution amendment we propose to sue the Government of the State that suits the type of VAT and the special electricity tax in favour of the competitiveness of our businesses and the well-being of our homes. We also stand with you that the Greek environmental taxes, such as wind canon, cannot give way to territorial supplements that affect our consumers, so we demand the amendment of the Law of Electrical Regulation 24/2013, so that this possibility is eliminated. As for the pricing system, it knows that it is the same thing that twenty-three countries in the European Union and even the United States use. As has already been explained in Commission 6a, it is not possible to set the price of energy based on technology because — I repeat — in Spain and most of Europe generates energy with the so-called "energy mix", in which the different energy technologies enter: coal and nuclear to a greater extent, the combined cycle and all renewables — wind, hydraulic, solar. And you know what happened? That since it neither rained nor made wind, and above all the nuclear -- which mattered from France -- was scarce, there was an increase in the use of that mix of the most expensive technologies, which, logically, are not renewables, and that's why the price has risen. A point-of-the-art episode clearly. Of course Galicia is overpowered in energy in about 4,000 gigavats/hour. But what's the problem? It doesn't always blow the air, it doesn't always make sun, it doesn't always rain. So, there's a lot of times that renewables don't come up to meet the demands of families and industry. And it's not possible that prices are marked by the cheapest technology because there isn't always it, nor is it possible that since Galicia is surplus it can be allowed to have a Greek electric tariff because we're not always able to be surplus. They are persuaded and left the demagogy aside, who no longer want Galicia to say that you can make a Welsh electric tariff and live only of the energy produced in Galicia, because that's not so, it's not sustainable, Mrs. Presas. But, well, there will be time to discuss it in the ILP process on energy poverty. Look, we're never going to defend a separatist position from this group. All Spaniards and also the Greeks contribute to our receipt so that electricity costs the same everywhere in the territory, out of solidarity. And this also benefits the Greeks and the Greeks because here the costs of transport and electricity distribution networks are higher than in other communities on the peninsula. And these additional costs, Your Honor, they pay us all the Spaniards, not just the Greeks. As for the Basque fare. Stop saying the Basque Country has its own fare; there's no such thing and you know it just as I do. What there is is the recognition of a different tension with which historically he was working a part of the Basque industry and which, compared to Galicia and the rest of Spain, they were paying more. In addition, this rate applies throughout the territory, that is, any company that had this tension would pay the same. Actually, they leave this separatist ideology that most of the Greeks don't share; they made it very clear in the polls just a few months ago. And you should be careful when you talk about the alleged tariff deficit. What you're doing is ignoring the irresponsibility of the BNG, which supported the payment of renewables in 2008, 2009, 2010, when they were ten times more expensive than now, and defer payment, lordship, these and other costs of the electrical system to accumulate a debt of 26 billion euros, which we all paid. [[Applause]] That's why electricity in Spain is so expensive, Your Honor. They installed miles of photovoltaic gardens when the cost of megawatt/hour was almost five hundred euros and today is less than half. Wrong policies of the past that we will pay for twenty-five years, gentlemen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Government of the People's Party had to put a stop to further increasing this deficit. It decided to freeze the fees for 2017, which will not increase 60% of the bill, and it also included new measures to strengthen consumer protection. And I'm done. The trend is all the opposite, the trend is towards integration into a single market, which is able to guarantee supply to households and businesses in the best conditions of efficiency, security and competitiveness possible. This is what supports most political forces in Galicia, Spain and the rest of Europe, except for extreme options or populism, because we do not benefit, ladies and gentlemen, from isolated Galicia. Thank you and good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Merlo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u175	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, electricity is an article of first need. Technical evolution, along with a series of policies aimed at promoting and ensuring their use, has done so. Therefore, it is reasonable what is required in this motion that the VAT applied be 4%. The problem may be that, just as industry and households depend on electricity, the government depends on an IV of 21% on electricity. When a public enterprise created to provide a service is privatized, the priority of guaranteeing a service is changed by ensuring benefits. If these also generate benefits, we find ourselves losing funding for the Government, making it increasingly dependent on funding through the tax channels. It is not fair, therefore, that the homes of the country should assume the cost of the rotational doors that bipartisanism has normalized for decades every time it decapitalized public buildings. If our governments in the country and the state depend on electricity taxes, the only thing they're saying is that we need an urgent and radical energy model change, and we need it because we're energy-deficit, depending on gas and coal for an important part of our electrical production. In his investment speech, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo said his Government was betting on mature renewable technologies as in the case of wind. The problem is, technologies don't mature alone. The question is that without an investigation, without a development, without clear implementation and betting by the administration of a country like ours, which has the characteristics to be able to take advantage of various renewable energies beyond wind, these will not mature in time or by our hand, which will make us again dependent on those technologies that develop these technologies. It has been a long time since the change of energy model is no longer a purely technical matter to be a political problem, namely a lack of political will. It's a problem of inability to legislate for people and not for the oligopolies of the rotating doors. In his speech on the 8th day, Mr. Conde said — and it was also said today — that he was defending territorial supplements for solidarity and centrality. Well, he also appealed to geographical dispersion. Dispersion is a fact that obviously hinders the distribution of electricity; it hinders it to the point that today, despite the measures already committed and announced in the strategic plans of that far-sighted sixth legislation of this House, it remains in several cores of Galicia a pending task. Mr. Conde, too, failed to mention that geographical dispersion was the crucible which allowed him to attach infrastructures to the width and length of the country which would otherwise not be acceptable in the manner that they took place. Mr. Count also said that the skills of the German Government in this matter were going through the electric bond or by pushing measures for the efficiency of energy saving in homes. I'd like to know exactly what the mechanisms are that the households that can't pay the bill month by month will be able to assume the costs of thermally isolating their homes, renewing the appliances for greater energy efficiency of them. I have the feeling that, in the same way that happens with the electric bond, these measures are sickened by a lack of contact with reality. Today it has often been said here that paper holds everything. Well, it seems to me that our people will have to endure more than the role in which these ideas are cheerfully placed. Ladies and gentlemen, paying 21% on the electric bill as a luxury item is a disincentive. And it's a special purpose in our country, where recently many populations have been without that luxury service for five days. I think it's a joke. For all this, the fact that in a few days a popular legislative initiative on energy poverty is being debated is evidence of a problem that no one denies and many suffer. To talk about energy poverty is to recognize a situation of injustice derived from primary benefits over basic services and it's an injustice that shows that a first-needed article cannot lead to 21% stroke. What suggests the first point of this motion is a step towards reversing this situation of inequality generated by speculation with the public, regardless of what is approaching in the debate of the next ILP mentioned. We're talking about an extreme problem that must be bound by every possible front and not just one. Finally, it seems necessary and interesting to study the approach of looking for improved tariff options for consumers and industries in the country. We support this motion from this institution as we support every step of cutting and alleviating the problem of energy poverty, the same way we do it in the streets and for the same reasons we have done it filling the squares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u176	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. Author group of the motion, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u177	Good afternoon. Mrs. Novoa, I'm going to repeat it in case you didn't make it clear: if we want Galicia to control production and distribution, we want to control our energy, and if we want to have a different model of relationship with the state. [[Applause]] And yes, I spend every day in this Parliament more separatist. Don't worry. [[Murmurs.]] Are you laughing at it, anyway... yes, well, coming in... this time you won't calculate, Mr. Santalices, that you're interrupting me? [[Murmurs.]] So going to a number of issues that went out. You're talking about the People's Party at the top of the episode. You talk about a point of view to justify that the fee is not abusive means that in its amendment they don't really go, that they're not serious about confronting the state and exaggerating a discount on that VAT as we're proposing. Look, by entering its amendment already, we could pass on and reduce from our original content the requirement of 21% to a minimum of 4%. We could compromise with that, but of course, the People's Party is proposing to us something that is not to say anything, that is to demand a review of taxation on energy. And just as then comes up the IVE of the bill of light and still above it will be the fault of the BNG, the Bipartite or the server. So we're not going to accept that amendment. If you want to vote favourably for the part of our proposal that questions the wind canon, which questions that supplement about the territories, as we question in our intervention in the morning, as we question, there is a full before the councillor, as welcome. You have many more speakers to listen to Mr. Rajoy. Welcome, and of course in that battle they'll count on us, because it seems like a nonsense to us what you've actually done with the wind cannon. We also think that now, above all, they want me to come on the consumer and consumer bill. Actually, with the current rate model we have, it's not possible to differentiate the source of energy. But that's because it marks the system. Of course, we'd have to change it, actually, we'd like to change it. Going to more questions — because time is running out — do you know who is not surplus?, what community is not surplus? Euskalería. Euskalerria is not surplus and, however, it does have a discount on its electrical bill, it has a fee named "6.1B", which I assumed last year — according to CNMC data, which is not from BNG or IGC or separatist reds— a savings of up to ten million euros in Euskalería companies. So I say, if Euskadi did, why not Galicia? Why do they always want us to be at the tail of everything? Why can they take advantage of it and we can't take advantage of it? Because they have political strength and sovereignty and they confront the state, not how you want to do it. We also want to comment, with regard to the Socialist Party's proposal, firstly, that we thank them for their willingness to support a motion that calls for the study of a Greek electric tariff. We know that they are refractory to that which is possible, but we positively value the constructive spirit of the Socialist Party on this issue, which, at least, is willing to study and evaluate naturally that to see if it has any kind of benefit to our country or not. We'll keep our first point as it is, but it certainly seems positive to us the second addition that they propose to the issue of CNMC. With regard to the first point, it's simply to keep a little sense of the proposal and to try to keep it between the People's Party's proposal and that you make, and that you actually accept a commitment to a lower IVE, not empty words to approve a motion and that nothing is moving here or in Madrid. And do you know why the state doesn't directly lower the electricity tariff?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u179	I'm done. Well, we said it here. Because with this rate there will be nearly 300 million euros, 300 million euros that is less than spent on that social bond, which we have to wait for its hyperreformulation to implement measures complementary to the social bond from here on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Please, it was not clear to me whether I accepted the second point of the Socialist Party's amendment. He accepts the addition, the other one does not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u181	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u182	Thank you. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to energy poverty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u183	No amendments were tabled. Mr Sánchez has the floor for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u184	Good afternoon. In our own interpellation two weeks ago, we were talking about energy poverty being actually one more face of dry poverty. There are more poor people, there are more people who can't afford the receipt of light and therefore rise to energy poverty. It's a way of hiding that actually in this country that has grown in recent years was the population that's in poverty. In the morning, at the meeting of the Economic Councillor, a data was cited — many could be given — and there were 19,000 homes in this country before 2009, which did not receive any income, and in five years it increased to 39,000 homes without income. But the spectacular increase in Galicia's energy poverty — which leads her to be the second most energy-intensive autonomous community in the whole state, after Valencia — is due to the increase in income-free homes, which has increased unemployment, the precariousness of work, the poor workers, to which the temporality has increased. And so the result is a lot of people who can't afford the bill of light to warm up the house and have a decent life. Also, in part, it is influenced by the privileges of electric oligopolie, which increase the price of light, since its "liberalization" — which has not been so — because almost 90%, almost 100% if we have that tariff deficit. And those privileges of the electric oligopolie, as we said, are also going through concessions as if the Board did not ensure that oligopolie companies did not comply with their duties, as happened very recently in this country, where there were thousands of people who had to stop days without electricity. That is a shame, but a greater shame when we know what Gas Natural Fenosa charges — which is practically the company that monopolizes the distribution of this country in 95% — which in 2016 was paid by distribution — regulated prices —, 715 million euros — 160 euros for maintenance, 430 for improvement of electricity networks and 90 for other types of activities. With 715 million, to make an idea, it would be the fourth councillorship of this government, it would be about 8% of the budget of the Greek Government. And with those 715 million euros, they were Welsh and Welsh up to five days without electricity. I don't know if it's normal. And I'm talking about the responsibility of the board and the board because it's the General Directorate of Industry and the Economic and Industry Council that you have to monitor that Fenosa Natural Gas, year after year, invests in improving the network, doing maintenance, etc., that, as demonstrated, has not been done. And it is once again the demonstration of the convolence of governments with the electric oligopolie, with privileges that allow them to continue to have millionaire benefits while in this country 15.4% of the Greeks suffer from energy poverty, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics. 15.4% means that in this country there are nearly 200,000 homes with energy poverty, 198,000. Of these 198,000 homes, you get some kind of help from the German Government between 5,000 and 6,000 people. That's the data. We did not come here today to present a motion to try to convince them to solve the structural problem that means the consolidation of their model of inequality. We know we won't agree. You defend the model of inequality, of precariousness, and you want to consolidate this as "recovery," you speak of this as "recovery." We simply want — taking the words to President Feijóo — that the very instruments you have proposed to alleviate the situation of people in a situation of energy poverty, because they reach all the people who need them, or at least more people. You've put in a hand for people who are at risk of having an electric power supply cut. Well, in 2016 they left out more than 30% of this order. What do you do next year? Instead of raising the criteria and opening your hand to reach more people, they cut off the budget. In the electric social ticket, the councillor acknowledged that in 2016 he arrived to some 5,000 people — I think I remember, between 5,000 and 6,000 people. And our motion today is simply the request to modify these two orders, the order for the electric social ticket bonus and the order for people at risk of having a supply cut, those two orders, and modify the criteria for reaching more people. In other words, in order to grant aid to families at risk of electric power cut-off, what we ask is that the maximum limit of the IPREM should be increased to 1.5 times the IPREM; that is, instead of 6,390 as a maximum limit to be able to perceive — that a family unit with 6,390 euros per year would be extremely poor — would be raised to 9,585, and that it would not be necessary to have a minor or disabled person in charge. That's what we're saying because there may be family units that don't have a minor charge and that they're in a state of energy poverty and that they can't therefore opt for these aids. For example, two older people with 19-year-olds could no longer opt for any help for energy poverty. We also asked on the electric social ticket to lift the IPREM from 1.5 times to 1.8 times the IPREM. And we also ask to raise the subsidies accounts of EUR 180 per unit of cohabitation per year — we're talking about EUR 180 for the whole year, and we're talking about 15 per month for families that don't exceed EUR 9,000 of total income; see the dimension of what we're talking about — and move on to 240. And pass the numerous families from 300 to 350. We're talking about this, we're talking about help that doesn't solve these people's paperwork. And finally, in the case of families with severe poverty who are at risk of light cut-off, from two annual bills to three annual bills, and up to a maximum of 240 euros per year per applicant. These are two requests within the framework of what you have put in place but which will allow something so simple that, instead of getting a lot of people out of these aids, there are people — who deserve it — who suffer from energy poverty and who have many difficulties — who can simply have some help that are quite modest. We therefore expect your support, the support of all parliamentary groups, to this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u185	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u186	Well, good afternoon to all and to all again. Since the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we will support this proposal that In Marea is bringing today to an end to the two-week interpellation. We understand that it is a consistent proposal, which is a proposal that, as Antonio Sánchez said at the end of his intervention, despite having to adapt to the frameworks that are already in place — as I say so — because he looks at far more possibilities than those people who are vulnerable to energy poverty today and which, therefore, would take a little step forward as long as we are not able to deal here with a more ambitious bill of law, as we hope that it will be that law against energy poverty in our country. We understand that the situation is such that not only does it revert but it goes further. We've been up all morning, at the meeting corresponding to the Economic, Employment and Industry Council, giving data and giving alternatives, and at the beginning of this afternoon, too. And reality is such that we can keep putting arguments on the table about why this worsening of living conditions is taking place in the popular classes of our country. For example, in January 2017 we saw how the IPC's annual rate rose to 3.2 per cent, and that this was due in particular to housing issues — water, light, electricity..., and also to the increase in fuel prices. All this, in a winter context, in addition, makes it a really difficult situation for many people in their homes. So we understand that we have to recognize this problem and that more effective mechanisms must be put in place. We've talked long enough and stretched out in this legislation on the insufficiency of the electric ticket, that the population to which it comes is not enough. And it is not enough to say that there have been no more requests, because the data are there, the data of energy poverty, are the data of families that do not reach 600 euros a month, are the data of temporary contracts, are the data — I said before — of that wage mass that earns less than the minimum wage, which is the one that goes up. So reality is out there, waiting for us from parliaments to be able to legislate some sort of alternative. So we positively value what I propose in Marea, and we understand that it would be a possibility to exploit as soon as we can't develop a more ambitious framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u188	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin again on the road to Damascus. In this case the fall has been some time ago, it was in 2014. Because in 2009 Mr. Feijóo arrived at the German Government, and he knew perfectly that there was a crisis. I was the only one who knew. Zapatero didn't know, Emilio Pérez Tourinño didn't know, he only knew. Yes, I knew there was crisis and poverty but it took five years — from 2009 to 2014 — to put in place the first mechanism to tackle energy poverty issues, and it was systematically voted against in this Parliament of all the proposals made by opposition groups to tackle this problem. And in fact, in 2014, this process began, which was, in a colloquial expression, but which came to him, to give birth to a mouse — a rat of rodent, not of time —. I say give birth to a mouse — as if there is any problem of understanding, nothing more — because the poverty needs in this country have grown dramatically from 2008 to 2014. And unfortunately they haven't improved since, even though the gross domestic product of the autonomous community has improved. And again we go back to the absolutely relevant issue — that of ideology and politics is what it has — of how this economic growth is distributed, how that part of the cake is distributed, by calling it metaphorical. And I, although the risk of being repetitive, will repeat data from the active population survey. I know I said it in the morning and, finally, I didn't say it in the previous initiative because probably in the same session it was twice a lot. But now I'm going to repeat myself. In all Spain in the past year, income-free homes — I insist, without income, which are the ones that go to food banks, to Caritas or literally to the social services of the municipalities, which, by the way, have no competence, who has them, is the Junta of Galicia, as you are sure you know well — grew by 13.5%. I give the data, in case there is any doubt about the three rule. From 32,800 in the fourth quarter of the year 2015 to 37,100 in the fourth quarter of 2016. If you make a three-summer rule, it's exactly a 13.5% increment. While not all Spain dropped by 11%. But I give back the data of the Feijóo era, that era that allows President Feijóo to draw his heart from the fulfilment of the deficit when he passes through the rest of Spain. In Spain it has increased the number of such homes — I insist, without income — by 21%, and in Galicia by 88%. Exactly from 19,700 to 37.100. I insist that the rule of three is easy. Next to that we have the €5,400 million of profits from the three big electricians, the ones I spoke about before. It's the other impressionist touch, because in five minutes it doesn't take time to approach a realistic painting, I'm sorry by Antonio López. But there's still more, there's more, because there's a data that doesn't appear clear in the statistics at the Instituto Galego, which is the subject of infra-vival, which we used to call "chabolism" but now, as we're fine and elegant, we call it "insurvival," but it's "chabolism," in many cases without water supply and in most of these cases without any kind of supplies of evacuation of any kind of waste. It's 10,000, 10,000 sub-living, with which that electric ticket of what the People's Party and the Government of Mr. Feijóo are talking about, and they don't even cover those 10,000 sub-living tickets, which of course all have wide bands to connect over the Internet and request the electric ticket. We all know that happens. It's enough for someone to go through the village in Poio next to Pontevedra or the town between Maside and The Carballino to realize the wide-band coverage that greatly facilitates the management of this kind of social benefit. This is the connection to the reality of the country that has this government. I think it's a metaphorical and paradigmatic example of disconnection from the reality of the country they rule. And then, no doubt, they come here saying that all demands will be met. But how will there be demands if there are people who have no access to information or social and relational capital to access that information, and let's not say -- I insist -- technological coverage, which Mr. Rueda constantly says is 97% of the population of this autonomous community. I recommend you take a walk through San Juan de Río, I know you well. Of course, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, exactly a walk over there and we see perfectly the broadband connection in my house. I'll invite you to check it out.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u190	It's over, Mr. President. So we are actually going to support this initiative. But I want to show interest and speed in this government's reaction. Look, with an IPC growing to 3%, with the problem of data -- it's true that it's a conjunctural data -- of spectacular increase in the price of light, an increase that doesn't come from the sky, that comes from certain business strategies, this group has asked a question about energy poverty, and they're sending me back on February 10th, from now on, to a government intervention on December 13th. That's to say, in a radically different context -- the worst -- because it goes up the IPC, because it goes up the energy price, and because it increases the number of homes without income -- to you it's worth what they told us in December, which was, of course, already a long disconnected part of reality. Now, unfortunately, more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u191	Thank you, Mr. Losada. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u192	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, again. Mr Sánchez, from the People's Parliamentary Group, we would like to say that we agree with you that it is a priority to improve and address the problem of energy poverty immediately. The commitment of the People's and Government's Group to all the most vulnerable homes is total, with those who cannot pay neither the receipt of light nor the gas. That's why this government has been the first to act, because since 2014 it has specific measures to alleviate energy poverty. And, Mr. En Marea, I am glad that you finally value this scheme positively. But a week ago we had a similar debate in Commission 6a, in which we tabled a replacement amendment to study the improvement of aid to people at risk of energy poverty, and you rejected it. You know that the Environmental Science Association has done a third study on energy poverty in Spain and has concluded that the autonomous communities most vulnerable to energy poverty are Andalusia, Castile-A Mancha and Extremadura, none governed by the PP. And what this association recommends to curb energy poverty is to act on the lines in which the German Government is acting. Because, look, Mr. Sánchez, the Tides don't want any solutions, neither for the people of Galicia nor for the people of the rest of Spain. They showed it a few weeks ago at the Congress of Deputies, when they also voted against the actual decree of law, so a new mechanism for financing the cost of the social bond is regulated. This social bonus consolidates aid for about 250,000 Greek homes. Then explain to me how your vote was against. Where is the agility they demand so much? They voted against the introduction of a second category of consumers who require greater support for their lower income, or for a number of personal circumstances, for which the discount could be even higher than the current 25%. They voted that not to a third category of consumers with a severe vulnerability, those who cannot be suspended from electricity supply. To these consumers, in addition to applying the most intense discount, electricity companies will co-finance part of the cost of supply in order to complete the aid provided by autonomous communities and municipalities. They voted against the introduction of obligations to power companies, as is the notification to the social services of the autonomous communities of defaults, so that these administrations can act, which will, of course, allow an early warning mechanism. They also voted that these companies would not extend the deadline for cutting electricity from 2 to 4 months, or the obligation to inform customers of the pricing of light and the social bond. In all this, Your Honor, you voted no, because you're not interested in reaching agreements. Look, the German Government is acting. The commitment to all vulnerable homes is complete. I repeat that it was one of the first to do so, because since 2014 it has measures to alleviate energy poverty, through the social electric ticket and through the help it is given to avoid the cut-off of electricity, which, as the advisor and President Feijóo well said, if you are also expanding to natural gas, thus ensuring the energy consumption of the most vulnerable families. And, in addition to these aids approved at the Congress of Deputies, you'd be able to save about 40% on the bill of light. But, I insist, you, Mr. En Marea, all this voted against, although, as I said, it is all a step forward that at least recognises the validity of the aid that this government has approved. Look, the Board Government has responded to 100 percent of all requests, over 6,000. And this year 2017, of course, all those who receive will also be treated. However, we are aware that there is room for improvement, and there is the commitment of the Government of the United Nations to move forward once the new general framework of the State against energy poverty has been defined. As President Feijó said in this House, the expansion of the daily population of the social electric ticket will be studied. We are open to dialogue to find more solutions to this problem, Your Honor. This is about politics, giving answers, responsible answers that respond to the general interest of the Greeks and the Greeks and that they are viable, and also that they are within our autonomous competences. And I once let the fear that this government will dominate the interest of the electricians. This government has not forgiven more than 3,000 million euros for electricity by not claiming too much for the cost of transition to competition. It was Mr. Zapatero, with the support of the nationalists, not to be mistaken. But it was this government that opened about 2,400 sanctioning files for these companies, worth nearly 24 million euros, when the Bipartite only opened 9 files for a value of 97,000. I repeat, the People's Group and this government do not comply. And they will make every improvement that can be done in behalf of the families who need it most. And finally, I want to point out that the central government has also decided to freeze the tariffs for 2017, so 60% of the energy bill will not increase. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what has been done and what will be done for the benefit of the most vulnerable. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. For the motion's own group, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u194	Well, I think she was ready for another intervention. I don't know what you've been talking about. He didn't talk about anything we came here to talk about. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I've been listening perfectly. Look, I don't know if The Tides — as you say — were ruled from 2012 to 2015 in this country. I think he ruled the People's Party, right? And in that period, do you know, according to INE, how much energy poverty has multiplied? For three, for three! They spent 75,000 homes to 198,000. And it's Mareas' responsibility too, I suppose. Right? And it is also the responsibility of the Tide that you take an order in 2016 with 600,000 euros of budget and run only 400,000, and that the other 200,000 go to the City of Culture, for its enlightenment. And that, in view of that, they don't reach people enough, instead of extending the criteria, you cut the budget for this year. Right? Because it doesn't seem to us that your measures will solve the problem when it's multiplied by 3 in three years, Mrs. Novoa. They are a failure, they are advertising and propaganda, advertising and propaganda! Only with you we have to try for land, sea and air, to see where the goal goes. [[Applause]] I mean, we can come here and say that their ideology generates inequality, that their policies generate inequality, etc. But what we brought today was a measure to get your orders, those that don't really reach the people who need it, to reach more people who need it. Nothing but that. And you don't approve because you, of course, are the other thing, you're saying they do but don't. And the data says they don't. Data says they don't, and don't blame others. Look, you assume you were the first to implement this help. Well, how many people were planning to arrive when they started this help, Mrs. Novoa? How many have you published the Counsellor? How many are there? You have not reached 40 percent of what the counsellor announced. And, simply, what we propose would help them reach their goals. It was a modest goal, but, of course, as we propose, you're not worth it, because you don't care about people's suffering. They don't care about people's suffering. Exactly. [[Murmurs.]] No, yes, you can see the facts! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u195	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u196	Look, how come they don't deal with power companies? [[Murmurs.]] You work for the power companies! You work for the power companies! [[Applause]] Of course I do! Another thing is if you want... Mr. Pazos... [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u197	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u198	...and all those who are screaming now without a call to order, if they want, who are arguing with the Socialist Party to see who worked more for the electricians, but I don't get into it. You work for the electricians. Yes, sir! [[Applause]] Yes, sir, you work for the electricians...! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u199	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u200	Yes, Mr. Paz, don't be like that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u201	And that's it, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u202	You're in a party that has many members who have made decisions in favor of the electricians and are now charging some juicy wages from the electric companies. Or Arsenio Fernández de Mesa which party is?, de En Marea, or what? What ability does Mr. Arsenio Fernández de Mesa have to improve... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u203	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u204	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u205	Quiet. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u206	It's just that you should be colored rather than angry at everything. Arsenio Fernández de Mesa...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u207	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u208	...you'll charge 175,000 euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u209	Finish it, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u210	Isn't this corruption?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u211	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u212	150,000 euros, which is almost...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u213	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u214	...nearly 33% of what you're doing for the electric social ticket.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u215	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u216	You should fall for shame, man!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u217	Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All of them. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please be quiet on both sides. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's be quiet and we'll all be better off. Come on! We moved on to the next motion. G.P. motion. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of public employment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u218	Quiet, please. That's it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] I think you are Members who already know this. We'll take this quietly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This motion has tabled an amendment by the Parlia­mentary Group of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u219	Please, Mr. Villos will intervene. Quiet. Mr. Pazos and Mr. Sánchez, I'll call us to order. All right? Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Whenever you like, Mr. Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u220	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The motion that we stand for today by the Socialist Parliamentary Group is the result of the question put forward at the plenary session on 8 February, in which we called on the Galician Council, in particular, to find out, in this new economic scenario 2017, whether they were prepared to resume social dialogue and collective bargaining, in the field of the autonomous public sector, to achieve a substantial improvement or recovery in the quality of public services. The motion that we present today, the result of this question, is precisely what this House is looking for, is a firm commitment by the Government and the People's Parliamentary Group to, as it said, achieve once again a pact for the quality of public services for this mandate during the 2017-2020 years. In that presentation of the inquiry, we were given a non-exhaustive review of the set of measures and cuts that had been applied in the public services of the Autonomous Community during this last mandate in a special way. We had a review of the different cuts that took place in Law 1/2012, of which, I insist, we request its derogation clearly and unequivocally. We would also review the downsizing of the staff set in the service of the Public Service of Galicia because of the entire sequence of troop replenishment rates. We also referred to wage cuts, which in Galicia were particularly intense in public employment during the years 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016; without any comparison to the rest of our country's public administrations. We also referred to a whole series of data in the field of education, which was also discussed this morning in the field of health or in the field of research and development, and we were talking about temporary employment rates. We were also talking about the unilateral suspension of the Fifth Single Collective Staff Convention in Galicia. We also made a reference, precisely, to the recommendations of the people's Valedora institution itself, establishing that the Galician Union should resume this social dialogue. And I'd make you see a whole series of measures that precisely deteriorated in a special way the set of public services in Galicia. We also said that, despite what the Councillor of Fairy said in that speech, the way of presenting the 2017 budgets two days before the trade union organizations, and, on the other hand, the way to modify unilaterally as well, and I am going to say it again, fraudulently, the Public Employment Act of Galicia by the back door, with the 2017 Law of measures, revealed or evidenced precisely the opposite of what the Counsellor referred to in relation to which they were speaking to the trade union organizations. When we talk about public employment measures, apart from talking about employment, what we're talking about at the bottom is the quality of public services. Precisely, the quality of public services is the redistributive mechanism that our State has — and, in our case, Galicia — to ensure equal treatment of unequal situations. That is why we insist that we talk about public employment — and we will not tire of saying it — is to ensure the quality of public services. That's why in this motion we collect a decalogue. These are ten very specific measures that, if we followed one of the arguments that the Councillor of Fairy also put in this gallery, we could understand that they would be in progress. What happens is that we have knowledge, logically, on the part of the trade union organizations — which went out on the street this very Sunday — that this is not happening. In the ten measures presented by our group to recover the quality of public services and to boost it again as in previous years, in these ten measures — as I say — we have included two parts: a first set of measures to be worked in the field of negotiating tables; and another measure that is important in order to systematically, rigorously and impartially assess the quality of public services in Galicia. That is why, as a first step, what we ask the Business Council, together with the rest of the autonomic organization chart — because it has an involvement in sectoral tables in the Health Council, Sergas, the Education Council, etc. — is that a systematic public employment supply plan for the period 2017-2020 is being approached, which allows for the recovery of stable employment rates lost during the period 2009-2016, thus boosting — and I repeat some words from the advisor — the abolition of the staff replacement rates to achieve these targets. Secondly, a timetable — please, predictable — for the execution and completion of the processes of consolidation of temporary employment, of operationalization and of internal promotion, which will allow once again to stabilize self-employment and encourage suspended careers in many of the groups. Thirdly — and this is also expressed in the amendments that we tabled to the budgets of this 2017 exercise — we insist on the need not to continue to abandon the Galaga School of Public Administration in its work programmes. Public services need the Galician School of Public Administration to strengthen its resources to identify professional itineraries, develop skills training programmes and implement a policy of support for virtually non-existent internal promotion today. We demand — and this is indeed an exigencies of ours, but above all the representatives of the workers — that the suspension which Law 1/2012 had laid down on certain provisions of the V Single Collective Convention, and in particular Article 19 on travel and rest of the staff referred to in previous initiatives, should be lifted. Fifthly, we also demand that the situation of temporary incapacity be stopped economically penalized; therefore, that they be addressed here and that the Central Government be urged to take the necessary measures in this regard. As was also mentioned at some initiative this morning, it is essential to recover the remuneration agreements for the period 2008-2012 unilaterally suspended in the field of the Galician Health Service. And, of course — as in some other autonomous community also put in place — take forward and provide for a special fund of remuneration recovery during the period 2017-2020 which, with the necessary progressiveity, recovers the salary mass and social action funds substantially reduced and cut during the period 2013-2016. Eighth, they also demand the representatives of the public employees to stabilize the staff. They need a system and a mechanism for permanent call for tenders for the provision of vacant posts, so that the excessive proliferation, which we know, of the service commissions is avoided and the staff are given stability. And we also advocate, 9th place, for a new strategy of equal public employment for this new mandate. As a closing clause, we also see that it is absolutely necessary to implement an observatory which controls and assesses the quality of the public services of our Autonomous Community, in which they are present, in addition to those responsible for the autonomous administration, trade union organisations, user and consumer organisations and experts. This observatory believes that it should be framed — as we say in our motion — in Law 1/2015 of 1 April 2015 on the guarantee and quality of public services and good administration, which must be subject to the necessary modification, since both the interdepartmental Commission which regulates it, and the marked quality barometer established in this law in 2012, we understand in principle that it is not valid instruments to assess the quality and the evolution of the quality of public services in our autonomous community. As he said, for us it's a strategic line to recover the quality of public services. Let's consider several data that we also have these days on the table. The IPC, in its annual variation, is 3.2, and this — part of the rest of employees’ groups — increases the existing differentials in terms of wage reduction in the public employment field. We understand that it is better a trading calendar than an announced calendar, logically, of mobilizations. There's some data that I think we should be worried about in terms of employment. According to the latest data from the EPA in the fourth quarter of 2016, 1 out of every 4 public employees in Galicia is temporary, 25% of the rate of temporality. Please don't have more than 4,000 workers and temporary workers, especially in the field of social policy, in absolute work insecurity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u221	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u222	...after unilateral amendment of the Public Employment Act with the Law of Measures. Nothing else. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u223	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u224	Good for all, Mr President, members of the House. We share the essence of this motion put forward by the Socialist Party from the Parliamentary Group in Marea. We regard the public administration — and, by extension, the workers who make it up — as a fundamental axis for the maintenance of our system not only of well-being but also of our democratic system. To ensure basic, free and quality services, such as health or education, is fundamental and key. One, because for us they are fundamental rights; and two, because we consider it as essential to achieve a more fair and egalitarian Greek society, where it is ensured that there are no citizens of first or second according to their current account. We believe it is important to speak seriously about this issue, so we are going to do so with data on the situation in which public employees are today — as they do — and how they love to use the data to the People's Party — and we are going to use the data provided by Mr Montoro's Ministry of Farm. Mr. Motoro, the terror of public administrations, which is known for having a capacity to cut into citizens' rights and services like no one in the history of democracy. Don't laugh. Those of us who saw the administration tremble every time we heard Montoro. Over the past few years, we've seen some data that are very alarming, and it's not funny to us, Mr. Tellado. From July 2009 to July 2016, the Galician Union lost no more than 2,188 public employees. In recent years, the low replacement rates to occupy the positions of retired public employees have left such a delicate and precarious situation for our Greek administration that is really worrying. In sectors considered primal, such as health and education, Junta sells as a success that in 2016 a 100% replenishment rate has been reached. What doesn't count the Galician Union is that from 2011 to 2014 this rate was 10%. I mean, for them to understand better, out of every 10 public employees who retired, only one post was filled, only one. So, from En Marea, which is logical, we consider that it does not come with a 100% replenishment of the squares per year because we are late for everything that is not rejected and that has remained vacant. We support in particular one of the initiatives of this Socialist Party motion, which consists in the creation of a public employment supply plan for the 2017-2019 period that serves to recover the lost employment rates in the last seven years. After Mr Tellado's statement by the Industry Councillor and his reply, as Galicia is doing so well, we have such a boisterous economy, we are in such a consolidated economic situation, it's not so much to ask for, it's something that you can achieve perfectly and that you won't have any problem with the People's Group, we imagine. We would like to put into practice two sectors of what we were talking about before, which are main to the concerns of the Greeks and the Greeks, such as education and health care. With regard to the situation of non-university teaching staff, including high school and primary teachers, the fall of public employees is even greater than in the rest of the sector. In the period from 2009 to 2016, the number of teachers has been reduced to 1,510, representing no more than 69.01 of the total destruction of self-employment in the last seven years. However, since 2009, according to the Galego Institute of Statistics, the number of students enrolled in public schools in Greece has increased by 9.41%. So we see the problem clearly: on the one hand, the number of students enrolled and the number of teachers is lowered. And you add another problem to it. According to the last statistical yearbook on the situation of education in Spain, 40% of teachers are over 50 years old, representing this as a problem, because in Galicia more than 3,000 retirements are expected for the next five years. If you don't balance with a good job offer, you'll tell me how to maintain the public education system. The same can be said of health. It's just like letting people die, not putting the staff, and we know that -- I repeat -- what we saw from the administration and what we saw from the administration, we know it's a very effective tactic. Of course, in health care they do exactly the same: there's a brutal attack on public health. In fact, we all know that they are articulating a progressive dismantling process. In 2017, the game is scheduled for 394 million less than the start of 2009. With this economic kindness that we've been explained here, we'd also like to ask what we owe. What's clear is they don't believe in the public system. What's clear is they don't believe in public health, they want to leave a marginal public service for second-century citizens. Because they say they believe in the public, and in the autonomics we told Mr. Feijóo that he was exemplary and, since the Cunqueiro hospital was so good, the best in Spain, that he was a father in that hospital, but he wasn't even able to convince his partner that it was better the public hospital. Obviously, any mother would have the child in a hospital worse than in a better hospital. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We know that. It's logical that I can't convince her that public health is better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u225	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u226	And to finish, to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u227	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u228	I mean, if you don't convince your partner, how will you convince the Greeks? It's logical! So we're going to say the amendment. Thank you. We would like to ask the PSOE to take into account our amendment to paragraph 2 of the motion, which calls for a permanent observatory to assess the quality of public services, because... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u229	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u230	...from In Marea we also want to add the obligation for this observatory to draw up an annual report on the situation of each councillor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u231	Quiet, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u232	... being the results of public access for all citizens, because we have the right not only to know the budgets, but to spend it, ladies and gentlemen. What they're spending on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u233	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u234	Because they spend it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u236	You know how they spend or turn around and turn around the rotating doors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará. Quiet, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u238	Good afternoon. To relax the atmosphere, I'm going to quote a separatist poet: "Try Galicia, you must never be called Spanish, which Spain forgets about you..." Castro Rosalía. Yeah, he wasn't from the Block, he was a separatist. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, the truth is, I have to admit, speaking on this subject of public services, that the other day reading the outer strategy of the Government of the Union was quiet, because they presented there a thesis on the causes of the crisis that doesn't match the Tellado position, we could say; that fierce and unmovable position: the crisis caused the Bipartite. No, there they say it was the moment of financial speculation aggravated by the situation of real estate speculation in the Spanish state. Anyway, they have a different theory. I'd ask them to read the strategy, see if they're sharpening their position more. In any case, what was called a crisis—which was broken down crisis—it was really an excuse, it was a pretext, for an uncommon theft; a legalized theft, a policy of income and resources, essentially of the working class, and, above all, a large theft of social and labor rights which also affected very directly to public services and which caused, as it is already shown, a decommunal transvasion of wealth and income of the working class to fatten the performance accounts of the large company, of the great capital. There are, therefore, two phenomena that characterize this process over the last few years, which have been the concentration of wealth and, secondly, the centralization of power and decision-making, imposing from the centre of the unfair economic and social political system and, indeed, corrupt. That decision-making was from the European Union, the Spanish State, and the third step is the Galician Union, which claims to be an advantaged student in making these unfair decisions. The truth is that it has to be said that all of this has been possible by a great political agreement, by a great coalition that has allowed there to be a political majority in the European Union, and also in the Spanish State, which has allowed these policies to be carried out and which has led, for example, to the reform of Article 135 of the Constitution by an agreement between the PSOE and the People's Party that imposed the budgetary balance — that is the result of everything — and also the absolute priority of the payment of public debt; and then, at the initiative of the People's Party, it has led to the adoption of the Act of budgetary stability and financial sustainability. All of this resulted in this impoverishment of the working class, that decommunal transvasion of wealth and income of people who live from their work to the richest people, and a great spousal of social, labor and democratic rights: collective bargaining, working days, hiring, pensions, layoffs, unemployment benefits and so on. And this kind of policy has particularly been tackled, particularly cruelly, in the public sector and public administration staff, which, as it is also shown, has lost over all these years around 30% of the purchasing capacity in the form of labour reductions, the elimination of extra wages, wage freezes, direct or indirect taxes or the CPI. And it also led to a drastic reduction in public employment and the deterioration of fundamental public services for social justice and people's lives. So it also had consequences for economic activity and consumption, because we know that less income, less consumption activity. So since the BNG we have supported all the measures aimed at recovering the polished rights and wages and economic capacity, the purchasing capacity, which has been polished, which has been eliminated throughout all these years, but we also demand one step further, that we go further. If we really want to reach an agreement on public services and to recover those stolen and polished rights, we have to change the framework, we have to change the rules of play, we have to change the Constitution and also all the legislation that imposed those unfair policies. So that legislation that sacrifices rights and freedoms on the altar and on the dogma of budgetary stability and control of public debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u239	Thank you, Mr Bará. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u240	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. The Socialist Party's initiative calls for social dialogue to be resumed in the new stage of economic recovery. I think the first conclusion is important. They're finally recognizing that there's a scenario of economic recovery. I think it is a very small step for the Socialist Party but an important step for understanding in the Galician Parliament, Mr Villoslada. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] From here on, you — I insist — call for the resumption of social dialogue, and what you have to tell them is that the Galician Union is in a constant process of dialogue with trade union organizations, and that dialogue is enabling a number of improvements in the working conditions of public employees. I can list a few songs, for example, the increase of OP 2016 squares in the internal promotion of workers; the increase of internal promotion in the squares accumulated in OP 2015-2016; the specific offer of public employment for the first time for people with intellectual disabilities or the creation of the follow-up commission on applications and instructions on the holiday scheme, permits and licenses etc. However, there's negotiation. Negotiation is taking place. Negotiations come to an agreement. It's the storytelling I just told you that it could be more extensive, but I won't do it for lack of time. It is clear that agreements are taking place between the Galician Union and trade union organizations. What we ask ourselves, Mr Villoslada, is that negotiation led the Government of its party to President Rodríguez Zapatero when by unilateral decision he decided to cut forever 5% of the salary of public employees. I don't know what kind of negotiation happened. [[Applause]] And the Government of the Union had to take temporary measures in the face of a major recession, with a deficit of 9%, with a risk premium that went beyond the 600 basic points and put Spain on the edge of the rescue, when unemployment reached unsustainable figures, when companies closed, they made ERE, they entered competitions and so forth. A responsible government had to take temporary measures, and many of those things are slowly recovering as the stage allows. And the Government of the Socialist Party, to which you belong, the scenario I had, the diagnosis I had, was what we were in the Champions League of the economies and what was fantastically going on. That was the diagnosis, and with that diagnosis, look at what measures were taken. On the other hand, with regard to the public employment supply plan, as you see, counsellors in 2008 had a staff of 16,092, and in 2016, 16,025; the difference is from a drop of 0.4%. The total average is a 0.05 % fall in the Galician Union. If you want to compare, we compared to the local administration, which was -19.1 or the central government of the state, which was -5.8. So in the end, in absolute terms, we're talking about a difference of 40 people. At the level of public employment, therefore, we are practically at the level of the year 2008. This year 3,000 new stable public jobs will be offered, which was guaranteed at all times health, education and basic services. Public health, to which everyone has the right to be cared for in that public health, without anyone, Mrs. Santos, being forced to go to public health and without having to impose or convince anyone, because, while the People's Party is ruling, women will give birth wherever they want, is it clear? [[Applause]] And speaking of job quality, there are other authorities that have lowered the quality of employment, they have lowered 10% a day and wages, and here in Galicia they have taken a number of measures to boost public job offers. More than 2,600 squares offered in 2016. This year, though, 3,000 more squares will be offered and transfer contests will be promoted. More than 6,800 squares offered since 2009, and a long et cetera. To a large extent, some of the things that you ask for, such as the elimination of the replenishment rate — here the maximum rate of replenishment has always been maintained, the maximum that has been allowed; not in other autonomous communities, but in Galicia itself — Mr Villoslada, they depend on the Socialist Party, that the central government accounts are supported, because this will allow further progress and that certain aspects of public employment can be recovered that have to be cut during the years of economic recession because such measures had to be taken. Little by little, many of them are recovering, and the other day the counselor here gave a long account of many agreements that are coming to recover many working conditions, because they were temporary measures, they were not definitive measures, and many of them are already recovering. In fact, since 2015, for example, in social matters, 151 new squares have been created to increase categories in higher-duty centres and the possibility of enjoying days of personal affairs without being conditioned by service needs. You ask for things like the Observatory, and there already exists this figure in Law 1/2015, to guarantee the quality of public services and good administration; in the end, the results will be obtained in the Barometer of quality of public services. And another series of questions that, frankly, are being asked.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u241	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u242	Mainly, social dialogue, Mr. Villoslada, has never ceased, is working day by day, and agreements are reached with trade union organizations. So we are not going to support this Socialist Party initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u243	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Author group of the motion, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u244	Thank you, President. As far as the speeches are concerned, I would briefly like to thank Mrs Santos for her remarks, because, on our part, by introducing this amendment to our motion, we would find that this question would be completed. Although we advocate that this observatory has a full regulation, with reporting deadlines... we see that they can help improve the measures that incorporate the motion. I don't know if it's responsible for conscience or it's not responsible for conscience, Mr. Moreira, but if there's social dialogue and collective bargaining, I don't know why trade union organizations show up in front of Parliament, they go out on the street... it's because, if so, we'd withdraw the motion, but precisely trade union organizations, and all the public employees, are demanding a whole series of measures that we're taking in the motion. [[Applause]] There are data that are irrefutable, and these data are from the Office of the Public Works Council itself, public employment data. You can't give the data they're giving when on the website itself of the Business Council we see as only in structural posts the Galician Union lost nearly 3,000 structural posts, down from 89,299 to 86,499. It's data published by the Fairy Council itself. I know they don't really care, but they're the official data. There's a theme that we strongly insist on, such as the loss of personnel devoted to research and development, and these are INE data for the period 2010-2015. 1,075 were lost in the higher public education system in Galicia and 420 in the research centres of the Government of Galicia; 1,500 researchers who lost this country to change don't know what productive model. It was 20% the reduction in wages that the public employees took forward in the period 2013-2016. No public administration in this country has taken forward a wage cut in public employment such as the Government of Galician Union of this last term. It's data that we have on the table, it's data that has every public employee, it's data that's also putting union organizations on the table, and it's data that, ultimately, what they're indicating is a loss of quality of the public service. What we ask is that we advocate a pact for the recovery of public service, nothing more and nothing less, Mr. Moreira. Thank you. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u245	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. At the end of the motions, we shall proceed to the vote. We'll make two votes. First, we shall vote on the motions. And then, as announced, we shall vote on the request to set up the Committee on Research on the Crash in Anguilla. We started by voting for the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Berganginos. He has already stated that he accepted point 2 of the Socialist amendment and that he did not accept the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government and the action that must be carried out in relation to the difficulties of families for the payment of the receipt of light. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u246	We now vote on the motion from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García. There are no amendments. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. in Marea, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to energy poverty. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u247	We now vote on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada. The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group was accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of public employment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. Voting of the request for the establishment of an inquiry commission
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u248	We have already voted on all the motions and proceeded to vote on the request for the committee to be set up. I think they've all got the ballot for the vote. So, I pray the vice president and the vice secretary to get down to where the ballot box is, and the secretary to start calling for the alphabetical vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u249	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u250	Did all the Members vote? [[Proceeding to scrutiny.]] [[Pause.]] We've got the result. They voted in favour, 20; there were 14 abstentions and 39 votes against. Consequently, the commission of inquiry is not set up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u251	I pray the House services to accompany our guests to the lobby...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u252	Quiet. Please accompany our guests to the lobby. Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No insults allowed. Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please accompany our guests to the lobby. Silence! We continue with non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and Da María Dolores Toja Suárez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the intentions of the Ferroatlantica company to secrete its activities in the production of electricity and railways, as well as the sale of the hydroelectric power plants of the rivers Xallas and Grande
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u253	There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u254	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Toja has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u255	Good afternoon. Once again, we bring the debate to the situation of Ferroatlantics, the factory of the Coast of Death. The truth is, after so many times that we have had to deal with this subject and even though practically everything has already been asked, nowadays the reality is that of all of what we ask practically was not answered at all. Even so, today is an important occasion to bring Ferroatlantics. The workers have called a strike for the month of March and have just asked for an interview with the Industry Advisor. Mr. Conde — who is not — receives the workers and workers, meets with them, asking for them. Well, tell him to take them. [[Applause]] The current situation is as follows: at present there is a proposal for sale on power stations worth 255 million, pending approval by the authorities, according to the Expand newspaper, or pending the achievement of the mandatory authorizations, according to the Five Days newspaper, because, unfortunately, we have to find out what is the situation of Ferroatlantic by the press. Seeing this and reaching this point, it is clear that in this situation something is happening, and let me say it this way, because the sale of the Ferroatlantic power stations has already been dealt with in full, has already been treated as a question to the President, as he asks the advisor twice, in the commission of Industry and now in this plenary, not to mention the meeting that the President of the Union had with the mayors of the Costa da Morte, in which he committed himself, among other things, to transparency, given the enormous importance he has for the Coast of Death the fate of Ferroatlantics. As a matter of fact, we've made enough progress — it would only be missing! — as regards the importance of compliance with legality, this legality which, as we said, meant that Ferroatlantic co-titles could not be lost and that, in addition, segregation could not be carried out, but we have very little progress with regard to transparency. How much progress have we made in transparency? Nothing, zero. This process, if for some reason it is characterizing itself precisely because of this lack of transparency, a lack of transparency from the beginning and, therefore, the anguish of workers and workers; anguish that causes uncertainty of not knowing what will happen with their jobs, with a strike proposal for the month of March. So this is the situation, and the Government justifies its lack of transparency from the beginning because such an operation does not exist. It's just a rumor. On the other hand, based on such rumors, they do request those famous technical and legal reports and, on the basis of such rumors, they also announced in their full election campaign the creation of jobs in Sabón, for which we know that it was necessary, precisely, to sell the power stations. There's something wrong here. Having arrived here today, today, with all that time has been putting the things in their place, it is necessary to insist that their EEC and Dumbria jobs, the current posts, must be a starting point, should not be a point of arrival; they must keep the jobs, and for that Ferroatlantic must make the necessary investments. Any expansion, diversification, investment or plan that involves an increase of higher education in the region, i.e. increasing the potential for professional development in a region that has a high unemployment rate, is welcome. The power stations are safe for the region, that's right, look at where you look, and it's also using our resources. For that there were benefits to remember, public benefits subject to the maintenance and generation of jobs, as well as the declaration of public utility for the expropriation of land, for the construction and exploitation of the power plants of the rivers, and the port of Brens was built especially for that. That's why we are once again presenting our initiative, because we are again talking about territories and people. Territories, a whole region, pending what can happen with Ferroatlantics, with a high unemployment rate, and a territory, as you know, with an important demographic regression, with young people and girls who go to other countries because they see that here they don't have work opportunities, and we have a population, consequently, aged. The disappearance of this company led to a worsening of this situation. And we're talking about people, people who live right now in distress of not knowing what's going to happen with their jobs, like the February 2 news, as we said, in the face of this government's lack of transparency. But today, besides, I wanted to have a memory for the widows of Ferroatlantics, over 50 widows from the Coast of Death because of silicosis or labor accidents caused by the metal carbide factory. That's what we're talking about today, about territories, about people, about a region with an important historical debt, about a region treated with contempt and that is not part of the territorial rebalancing that this government preaches, and, if not, explain how it fits the Death Coast into its concept of territorial rebalancing. I repeat again that, in this case, the workers were treated with contempt, that an entrepreneur's interests were put forward in front of the interests of the workers and the workers, and, if not, I ask again — because it's not a rhetorical question but it's a question for me to answer — why did they ask for those technical and legal reports when there was still no knowledge that the plants were going to be sold? I wonder if they started asking at the same time to announce large investments in Sabón in the campaign for those who needed this sale of the power stations. So they were asked to kill two birds in one shot, so they could sell the power stations and at the same time carry out their electoral program, so they could be asked? Tell me, why can an entrepreneur sell anything public? This is very important. And you know why it's so important? I ask him, I'll keep asking him, and every time I can ask again. It's very important for the following: because there's something at stake here, something much more than the employment of workers and workers, something much more than the future of a region. Here what we're talking about at the end of the day is the model of government, the importance of distinguishing as far as the public reaches and as far as the private reaches, so as not to fall down and confuse the accountant with the extra-accounter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u257	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, bring to this plenary an initiative which is literally — it is exactly the same — of what we discussed and approved last Thursday in the Committee on Industry, which we discussed and approved through a transaction, in which we reached agreement between the Socialist Party and the People's Party. I told them then, four days ago — four days ago we talked about this and we reached an agreement — that we are again debating today in parliamentary office about a presumption, a supposed sale of the hydroelectric power stations of Ferroatlantics on the Coast of Death. Let us debate the debate again. They propose that we vote again on what has already been voted on, but in any case, what I have to tell them is that there are several agreements with full force in this House, in this Parliament, because there is no agreement in plenary than an agreement in committee. It has exactly the same vigency. Today we will probably come to an agreement which is the same, the same, as we agreed four days ago, if the Socialist Group maintains the same position as four days ago, which is to seek agreements and to seek consensus. Sometimes, listening to the speeches of certain Members, it seems that someone is trying to search for dissidents, to seek conflicts, to seek confrontations where there is unity, in the defense of the interests of a region, such as the Coast of Death. And today, once again, a couple of plenary sessions and a couple of commissions later on, we will also show our commitment to the workers of Ferroatlantics and all the people on the Death Coast, that the opposition wanted to put us on board whenever we had an opportunity. I would like to remind you that in this Parliament you strongly criticized the Council of Galicia because it maintained that the company had not yet raised a formal proposal for the sale of power stations, and since the three minorities in the House it was insisted that we should be hiding information or that we should be making fools while the power stations were already practically sold illegally. That's what you were defending. You've used this question to try to get scared in a region with a deficit in your industrial activity. You continued to try to stir the evil fear that both the councilman and the president met with all the actors involved in the area; even socialist mayors and nationalist mayors were satisfied with the explanations given at that meeting on the Coast of Death. This weekend in several Greek media, we saw an interview with the CEO of Ferroglobe, in which Ferroglobe was said to be negotiating with companies, but he hasn't asked the Galician board yet. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we were not hiding anything because the Galician Union was not aware of any agreement, of any transaction. Will you correct your charges, ladies and gentlemen? I'm sure not; I'm sure not because today an initiative is brought to this plenary, which was discussed only four days ago in the Committee on Industry, and it is simply for one reason: for political posture. You have no other explanation, Mrs. Toja. To bring to this plenary initiative which has already been discussed four days ago in committee, which has a full-fledged agreement — four days ago — it cannot be qualified more than political posture, likes or dislikes. Socialists don't like to be told that they're moderate or sensible, and I'm not going to tell them this time, I think they've shown that they're actually upset to be told, and they're not. I think they're trapped in these complexes that they now have to look like Podemos, look like Podemos tides or look like the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. That is why we tabled an amendment which reproduces exactly that agreement, which we agreed on in committee only four days ago; an agreement that is fully effective, word by word, point by point. We're still on the side of industrial activity, and we're going to continue to defend it as much as bothering the Socialist Party or the Nationalist Block of Galicia. We follow the workers' side, we follow, ultimately, the Coast of Death. I will end by reading the Commission's agreement last Thursday, which is the compromise proposal that we are presenting to this plenary: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to first urge the Ferroatlantic company to maintain its productive activity and jobs in the Cee and Dumbria factory, through the investments necessary for this purpose, and to work with Ferroglobe to achieve the development of a plan to modernise its factories in Galicia with the highest social and trade union support. Secondly, to ensure the maintenance of the conditions laid down in the relevant concessionary documents of the hydroelectric power stations, with the use of the rivers Xallas and Grande, and in particular the following: 1. They cannot be segregated from Ferroatlantica S.A.'s ferro-alloying and power generation activities by the power plants. 2. The loss on the part of Ferroatlantica S.A. of its status as the holder of the assets identified before any creditor, even a pinnoratio, will result in their extinction in accordance with the terms set out in the concessional documents. 3. To request that the jobs derived from the management, administration, accounting and exploitation of the energy division fall into the Cee and Dumbria work centre, hydroelectric power plants, as has always been in the history of Metal Carbide." We put forward a proposal for an amendment that is nothing more than what you proposed as a transaction four days ago, and so I guess there will be no doubt that we can agree. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u258	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. "When no one looks at them, / overcomes dark and cloudy faces, / men who err in which twisting shadows / by vegas and camps. / One, on top of a coma, / sit sharp and thoughtful; / another, at the foot of a oak, stays motionless, / with the view raised towards the infinite. - They're gonna leave the country...! - Forceful, but supreme sacrifice. / The misery is black around them, / alas!, and the abyss is ahead...!" Castro Rosalía. Mr. Tellado, my beards, my canes, will not respond to their focus, but Parliament has unanimously approved in 2016 an initiative by the BNG to pick up the impossibility of segregation. In Commission 6th, at its meeting on 2 December 2016, the following agreements are reached: "Avoiding the segregation of power stations, maintaining productive activity, maintaining jobs in Cee and Dumbria and establishing with the Ferroglobe business group, and especially with Ferroatlantics, mechanisms to increase industrial activity and current levels of employment in Galicia, especially in the municipalities of Cee and Dumbria." Light as water. A single question arises which in itself is a statement: how many more times will we have to remember the same points — either together or separately — for the Government to enforce the legality and exigencies of the whole of Greek society, manifested in the unanimous choirs of this holy house? Because if the German Parliament is clear that all these agreements are the best and the legally feasible solution, the company does not consider it that way, and sends notes to the press announcing an agreement with most of the Soap company committee based on obtaining extraordinary and conditional revenues for the sale of power stations. It's no wonder, because the formal sale agreement has already been announced in the stock exchange, and apparently the buyer firm has already visited the factory in Cee. Once again, the profit interests of large companies stand above the legality, disguise it and relegating to the last term the rights of workers and society of a whole region. If we review the history of Ferroatlantics, we note with concern how promises of jobs and investments have been repeatedly unfulfilled. For example, in order to be granted the refuelling of three new hydraulic farms in the Xallas River, the company argued the promotion of 700 jobs that never arrived. The permanence of power stations is the survival insurance of Ferroatlantics and the survival of a stable economy in the area. Ferroatlantic at the moment is not credible. When the merger was carried out with Globe, it was mentioned that this merger would place Ferroatlantic as a leading company worldwide. He made a box and didn't invest a euro in the area. This is all a speculative operation, made up of good words and plans, to justify the injustifiable. From the BNG we demand to put an end to such delay and let the Government enforce the parliamentary agreements at once. This amendment proposed by the PP breaks the unity we had in Parliament to defend employment on the Coast of Death and the continuity of Ferroatlantics. The amendment opens the doors to strengthen the illegal sale of power stations. We'll never be there. [[Applause]] We ask all groups today to tell Villar Mir, loud and clear, that the power stations do not segregate in any case, and that we thus give a principle of confidence and security, a breath to the workers and workers of Ferro-Atlantics and the entire area of the Coast of Death. And please tell the counsellor to speak to the workers. They don't hurt anyone, they only defend their bread and their children's bread, and he, to whom do they defend?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u260	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u261	Good afternoon, everyone. The name of one of the Xallas power stations, which you'll all know, is Castrelo, and Castrelo reminds us of another, that of Castrelo de Mine, and this comes to the story of how public goods and the people of Greece have been annihilated during franchise to benefit private companies from people close to the regime. In Spain there has been an imperfect political transition to democracy, and that's why we have to start a new constitutional period of 100 percent democracy that puts people forward. But there is no doubt that there has been no economic transition to democracy that has compensated the runoffs against public goods and people for the benefit of four oligarchs. So we keep going, and some of those oligarchs think they're still able to do what they want. They're now coming to Galicia saying that they're going to spoil nearly less than half of what really worth these hydraulic uses, that they're going to spoil our natural resources in exchange for an industrial plan mirrorism. They think that we're in the 19th century west of the United States and that mirrors can be given for wealth. They insult the intelligence of all the Greeks. We really thought that the subject of the sale of the Xallas power stations was angry after the GNPs already mentioned, which Mr Tellado mentioned, adopted in this House on December 2nd, a few days ago again, and the subsequent demonstrations here, in plenary, of the President of the Council of Galicia. But Mr. Villar Mir passes from legality, passes from democratic power, passes from everything and makes for sale. This is a reality, and it's not an illusion of opposition, it's an official communication to Spanish and American stock exchange regulators. If the commitment is frowning — as Mr Tellado and I have just told you — with the workers of Ferroatlantics, the answer must be powerful. In the face of such an attack on legality to the democratic power represented in this Parliament, the answer must be in the same way as the attack by Mr. Villar Mir, who makes the sale of the power stations and communicates it to the stock market operators. What the Government has to do, if it really wants to respond to this order, is not to continue doing technical and legal studies, as Mr Tellado again pulled out last week in the commission — he mentioned it, yes—. That does create concern in citizenship, that does create anxiety, return to what you said at first, that then Mr. Feijóo ratified that they would not do any more technical or judicial studies, which was all very clear in Supreme Court judgements, in the judicial and technical report of the Council of Galicia lawyers of many years ago. What we have to do is make a communication to the stock exchange regulators -- because there is a finding that this communication exists by the company -- to make a communication by the Government of Galician Union that that segregation and subsequent sale is absolutely impossible. And to pass it on to you, too, as we will talk tomorrow, too, to the investment funds that you want to acquire these plants. Mr. Villar Mir has twice hypothesized the power stations and has not invested a weight in Ferroatlantics or in the area. He financed other business outside Galicia, in the last case one of Chamartín's towers, which has little to do with the shore of Death. In the last reconnaissance that Mr Feijóo authorized, many promises were made, where are the job increases and the job improvements and economic improvements for the workers? Where's the promised oven 23? Where's the previous industrial plan? If Ferroatlantic really wanted to make an industrial plan with the guarantee of the power stations, he could again do a leasing as he did at other times, without losing ownership of the concession, but this time yes to invest in the Coast of Death, not as before. And I could get over 150 million euros to invest and develop the entire Industrial Plan not only on the Death Coast, but also on the Soap and even on the factories they have in Cantabria. But everything is a lie, and you cannot afford this sale of this natural treasure of the Greeks and of the citizenship of the Costa da Morte, which is the real guarantee of the future for Ferroatlantics. Ferroatlantics will always be profitable associated with their plants. The economic cycles, which change the prices of ferro-alloys, would be mitigated by those more than 20 million euros that power stations give each year to the company and balance their accounts. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party's Government, do not allow a new policy of the natural resources of Galicia and tell Mr. Villar Mir that we are no longer in franchise, political or economic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u262	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u263	Some of us seem to be worried about it, and not boring it, and not boring it to the workers and workers of Ferroatlantics. [[Applause]] You're talking about posture, you're posing the same thing as measuring a person's popularity based on selfies, according to his statements this weekend in a media medium. [[Applause]] You also tell us about the region's confrontation, the first ones who faced the two districts, Cee, Dumbria and Soap, were you when we asked them if they cared about Cee and Dumbria and answered us here: I care about Cee, I care about Dumbria and I care about Sabón. And we asked them not to confront the comarcas, because they could and should be complementary to the plans and they should not be substitutes, complementary. However, this is a very relevant subject and will come here as often as possible to give voice to the people on the Coast of Death, you know why, because every time we came here they didn't answer the questions we asked, they never answered us. They tell me later from the scan, when they're not in the use of the word, they do, but they never answered when we asked them. And the questions are very important: how can you sell something public?, how can anyone sell a public asset?, and how is it possible that in the month of September, without any sales, without knowing anything about this subject, you had already made an announcement of an investment in Sabón for the creation of jobs, for which it was necessary to sell the plants? They didn't explain it, they didn't answer it, they keep saying that the sale doesn't exist, even though it's reported in the American stock exchange, they keep saying it. That's why we have to bring it in, because this is an exercise of transparency and, as I told you, here is much more at stake than the employment of a region. It's all a model of government where the public is being confused with the private and the public. And it's the money of the Greeks and the Greeks and the works of the Greeks and the Greeks; not of the Government, of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u264	The amendment, Mrs. Toja? Will you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u265	The amendment, logically, we want to deal with it as we have done in the Commission. Of course you do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u266	Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, there's no opinion on this, here you can debate whatever you want, that's clear. Now we're going to debate the interpellations. Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the commitments made by the Government of Galicia in the local Covenant
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u267	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u268	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. The Socialist Parliamentary Group today brings here an inquiry into the development of the local Covenant. Local pact, which, as you well know, was signed in 2006 and today, February 21, 2017 — that is, eleven years after its signature — remains undeveloped entirely; and, what is worse, no date and no program for its development at one hundred percent. Before you touch each of the terms and agreements collected in this document, I will make a brief account of the history of the local Covenant. In 1993 the FEMP Assembly — now in the Coruña — produced a document called "Bases for Local Government Development". In 1997 — four years later — Law 5/1997 on Local Administration of Galicia was adopted, regulating transfer mechanisms, delegation of competences and management orders from the Autonomous Community to local authorities; and the establishment of the Greek local cooperation commission is also envisaged. In 1998 there is a meeting of the Government of Galicia in Armenteira setting out the premises for the process reflected in the Report on the Local Covenant in Galicia. In 1998, the Galician Local Cooperation Commission was also established, a permanent body of parity between the Galician Union and local authorities in order to lead the process, negotiation and agreements of the so-called Local Covenant. In 1999 the Galician Local Cooperation Commission adopted the principles governing the said Local Covenant and the methods for calculating the actual cost of transfers of powers. Already in 2000 the reform of the Galego Local Cooperation Fund, which was established in 1990, which is financially designed to help correct the internal imbalances in Galicia, mainly in basic infrastructures of a local nature. It becomes a share in the income of the Galician Union and ceases to be a finalist. In 2005, the Galician Local Cooperation Commission approved the document for the implementation of the local Covenant in Galicia, but it must be a socialist government, led by a socialist president — Emilio Pérez Touriño — who brings this local Covenant forward and materializes. You guys since 1993 have been messing around for 13 years doing what they do. Something that really is that they're artists, they always do without doing anything, they just do it to wash their faces. They again approve laws, regulations and decrees to develop agreements that take, but do not materialize them, they have no consequences for those that are created. Not only if you come to legislate, you also have to comply; ruling is not gestures, rule is to execute and carry out the agreements that are made and the agreements that are signed. On January 20, 2006 — five months after reaching the Government of the Union of Galicia a socialist president — Emilio Pérez Touriño signed with the president of the Fegamp, Xosé Crespo — who, as you know, is the former Mayor of Lalin of the People's Party — the Greek Local Covenant. And in their agreement they established a reassignment of powers between the Autonomous Community and the local administration, based on the principles of subsidiarity, local autonomy and sufficient funding for their provision. In these clauses, funding is collected, without renouncing the aim of reaching a state with the State for financing, and the Autonomous Community will carry out the following actions: firstly, the regulation of the Galego Local Cooperation Fund for the period 2006-2009, which establishes a supplementary account of EUR 6 million, and in the previous document it was requested 4. And already with Emilio Pérez Touriño, a complementary count of EUR 6 million was approved for each of the years 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, reaching the figure of EUR 119,687,834 in 2008. It is also requested that the main and additional funds be increased in accordance with the vegetative growth experienced in chapters I, II and III of the revenue budgets of the Autonomous Community of Greece. Secondly, the interterritorial compensation fund, which is the creation of a fund for less favoured municipalities, is called for in order to alleviate existing imbalances, mainly in physical, economic and social infrastructure, and to promote balanced development. And with this background, some of the Galician board grant lines would also be absorbed into the municipalities. Another of the important points — and in what has been discussed a lot — was the assumption of the costs of maintaining health centres today — but at that time they were currently — by the municipalities. And there is a joint joint commission between the Health Council and the Fegamp to determine the local health centres that will be assumed in each exercise. The process will be voluntary and Sergas will be given the ownership of buildings and land at the same time. The agreement will be formalized through agreements and heritage assets will be integrated into Sergas' heritage and will be affected by the Public Health Service. And in case of removal of service, they will return to the Town Hall. Another of the fundamental points was the assumption of the maintenance costs of primary teaching centers. A joint joint commission is also established between the Galician Union and local authorities to assume the economic costs incurred by the municipalities resulting from the maintenance of primary education centres; this was in 2006. On 14.11.2016 — that is, almost eleven years later — Fegamp publishes the lines of action 2016-2017, among which are, first, to request an interview with the President of the Board and transfer certain claims to him. And these claims are essentially a demand for a fair and non-discriminatory local funding model with Galicia, for which they call for an urgent meeting of the Galician Local Cooperation Commission to conduct an analysis of the situation. A commission that was concerned about introducing the law, adopting a regulation of organisation and operation, but which in all the previous legislation did not meet once and for all, not once! And you tell me that the current president of the Fegamp is from the Socialist Party, but the previous party now shares the government with you, and you also requested the meeting of this Galician Local Cooperation Commission. On the benches of this Parliament there are several Members who have been mayors, and there are many and many who have either been concelers and concelers of different political groups — of their own — as well. And within the Fegamp, as a federation representing one hundred percent of the Greek municipalities, there is and has always been unanimity to deal with these issues. The other issues proposed in this list of the Fegamp were: at the Presidency Council, to develop a Galician municipal cooperation law, which defines the areas of cooperation between administrations, and to debate the territorial map model, without assuming that the merger of the municipalities absorbs a very important part of the Local Cooperation Fund. In the Council of Education and Culture, it is again asked to study and prepare a realistic timetable for the urgent assumption of the maintenance of all educational centres. And in the Health Council, to carry out a realistic schedule towards the urgent assumption of the ownership of the integral management of all health centres that are currently in municipal or provincial ownership. The Local Cooperation Fund, the possibility of regulating it by law and the inclusion of all grants in the Local Cooperation Fund, without having to be finalised as far as possible and with a competitive competition procedure. In the case of grants and investments, basic criteria for the distribution of investment in works, funds and economic aid to the municipalities are sought: advertising, competition, equality and non-discrimination, covering the 2003 General Grants Act and the 2007 Galicia Grants Act, and reducing direct and nominal aid and truly exceptional situations. I'm going to go straight to the questions because I could go on with the agreements that Fegamp asks but I'm running out of time. Therefore, Counsellor, I tell you that twenty-four years after the beginning of the bases that would reject the local Covenant and thirteen years since the Socialist Government had adopted and initiated the implementation of the local Covenant agreements, Fegamp continues to demand the same agreements as 13 years ago, practically the same ones. It's still not fully developed, when we had to be talking about another more advanced text, of greater magnitude and adapted to the 21st century municipalities. You are clearly aware of the financial situation of our municipalities, which are the administrations closest to citizenship and, therefore, those that have to solve the neighborhood in their day-to-day lives. You know, perfectly, that local farms are weak, that they don't have enough resources to carry out their skills. You also know, perfectly, that the Galician Union is not, and mustn't be, a protective father since local administrations have their own autonomy guaranteed by law. You prefer to have a cliental and cacical system where the ones most receive are those of your political group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u269	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u270	Mr. Counselor, of the People's Party. It is allowed the luxury and arrogance of summoning in non-competitive competition, in which yours are previously notified to arrive first and exhaust the credits...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u271	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u272	...from which they are available, even denying them by telephone to some mayor of another political group who had been opened this call for grants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u273	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u274	...and I'm from his counseling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. You've got another shift later. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, starting at the end, because this is what you just told me about, is that you said it in a question you asked me and I told you, first, it's a system that you used -- in three years you used it more than once -- and, second, it must be that you did it when you were in the direction because, if not, it doesn't happen to me that you can say calmly that this is a practice that is done. By the way, we must also warn the conciliators of the Socialist Party that they present themselves in some of the first cases in that relationship, or the associations, I suppose they are referring to that order of councils governed by the Socialist Party. What's the matter? What do we warn yours, too, theirs get into complicity? But do you realize that these things are said at the end of the day what they do is they're making a bad name for everyone, starting with their own, which are sometimes benefited from what is a system of request that, by the way, you've used a lot of times? Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, I know that you know the local Covenant well; in case there was any doubt here that made us a storyteller, you were a reader in 2006. He said that he was signed by a socialist president, actually, by a president of the Fegamp, that if we go to party... I believe that the local Covenant should not be understood that way, he is a president of a council governed by the People's Party. If you want to understand it that way, because perfect, the Socialist Party and the People's Party agreed. It's that we all agreed at that time, and there's the hemerotheque to see how the People's Party, at that time in opposition to the Galician Union, applauded that the local Covenant had finally been signed. And we said it was okay, and you signed it all up, I suppose because there was a job done before many years and lots of discussions to agree with. I don't know if you recognize it or not, in any case it's not necessary because the explanatory statement of the local Covenant itself is going to make a narrative -- you referred to something about it -- where you're going to say which steps were the steps, which were the agreements, which were the achievements to be able to arrive early in 2006, when you were only six months in government, to be able to sign the local Covenant. I think in six months no one performs miracles, neither you nor us; therefore, there's a previous job and we agreed that a lot of things had been done and we said that ahead, and then, what came, of course, was the time to materialize all this. We've been worried about many of the contents of the local Covenant at that time because, if you review them, which I'm sure you've reviewed them, there are a number of advisors where the determinatums are formulated: to create work committees to establish joint points of collaboration to see if we can make progress. There are several advisors who say nothing but that, I mean, nothing at all, that's what we're going to do: nothing; by the way, almost all governed by the BNG, who haven't adhered very much to this of the local Covenant. As you say, it was especially something of Mr. Pérez Tourinño of the Socialist Party. So there were statements of intent that remained in nothing, in smoke. The bad thing is that many of the things you were trying to achieve were also left because, if I tell you the truth, the only thing that was concrete and that went ahead was the Local Cooperation Fund, which, as the statement itself stated, and the preamble to the local Covenant itself, comes from a fund that has been negotiated and has been managing and has been in practice since the local Covenant was signed, a number of years before. What you did was give him more money, I'd miss more! The year 2006, absolutely expansive budgets of the Galician Union. By the way, the budgets of the Galician Union grew much more as a percentage of what you decided you had to increase the Local Cooperation Fund. Just contrary to what happened in 2009, where, by going down and being a fund referred to the income of the Galician Union and lowering the income of the Galician Union, we shielded it and made it rise when the budgets went down. You when the budgets went up a lot, what a chance!, the percentage of the increase in the Local Cooperation Fund, of a fund — I insist — already fully designed by the previous governments of the People's Party, you make a climb that seemed to us at that small moment but that at least they respected it and kept it, because many other predictions that were contained in the local Covenant... The years have passed, you went away and there was nothing until 2009. Or can you tell me how many health centers that were already marked in 2006 were assumed in 2009 when they left the Government?, how many health centers had the Galician Board to assume and no longer assumed the municipalities before 2009? Three years to plan, to talk, to do those co-operation and points in common and the good part that you put in the pact, but in three years they took absolutely nothing, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. When we arrived there was not a single health center, neither was there any education center, nor was there any of those things that were said. The Grumirs — of course, I don't know if they were spoken — had to assume them in four years, not only assume the cost of financing, but also design a new model. Of course, the new model didn't design anything at all, they left it as it was found, but they were shifting the funding to the assumption of the costs of the Galician Union; it was 25% each year, after 50%, after 85% and then, oh, chance!, 100%. We arrived in the Government in 2009 and funding the Grumirs unsolved. Of course, from the emergency map, from the redistribution and from giving them strength and continuity to an emergency deployment in Galician territory, of course, nothing at all. In that was the local Covenant, which, you hear, we recognized that it was right to sign it and that we said it there in 2006, that it was right, that we went ahead, in our opposition work, to monitor what was being done and what was not, and nothing was accomplished at all. I'm saying, with the Local Cooperation Fund, you made the mathematical formula: budgets grew expansively, you'd have to go up the Local Cooperation Fund too, but you could go up a lot more and not go up. Health centers, absolutely nothing. Education centers, absolutely nothing. Redesigns in Grumir, absolutely nothing. All the things they were going to do, those meetings that were going to be done between the councils and the municipalities in a series of subjects such as the good role of cooperation committees, absolutely nothing. That's the picture we have. That you're here to tell me what pictures, photos, photos and nothing we've done. Hey! It's just that everything that's done, materialized and costing Galician Union is done since 2009. No, they've been ruling for many years. Yes, but they've been with expansive budgets for three years and they haven't done anything at all. How long did it take them to know how many health centers they had to take? Couldn't they do a phased operation, as we did, assuming first, then others, then others, and finally assuming, that we haven't finished, an important amount? In three years when their budgets went up so much, couldn't they do anything at all? It seems that no, it seems like it was very difficult and it seems that everything was talking, talking, and there would be others — after we arrived — trying to materialize it. That's the real story of the local Covenant, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. I can even admit to you that all the beginnings are difficult, that you were not able to boot in the time they had to start. But tell me that so many years later nothing is done at all! The city councils' claims are still the same and they're going to be the same all the time, it's logical. Home, of course, I haven't listened to the previous presidents of the Fegamp and now say that we have to put all the grants into the Local Cooperation Fund, which is what you said. And then, when... do all the grants have to be put in the Local Cooperation Fund? It's not what they're asking for, much less, the municipalities, there'll be some that they do and some that they don't. You couldn't even identify those who didn't. We've been for a while, it's not easy, because not even that we agree with all the municipalities, but there will be a series of repetitive processing grants, not much enough, that can be put into the Local Cooperation Fund. Now, everything? Come on, it's a novelty that I'll ask the president of Fegamp if that's really the case. That which you transmit to me does not coincide, at all, with what it transmits to it or what it transmits to the municipalities. I'm just asking you to clarify it, because it's important to know what we're talking about, because we're actually going to have a meeting now in March and there's a series of demands on the table. I don't think it's from the Local Cooperation Fund, which -- I insist -- when the budgets of the Union were down, was shielded and grew, quite the contrary -- I mean, of what you had. They're asking us and they're still asking us to complete the map of the health center solution; hey, there are a few of them left, but they're not all left, just like you've got. They ask us to continue to take the schools, to continue to take the heating; they still remain, but not all are left. They ask us to give definitive stability to the supramunicipal emergency groups, that is, we've forgotten for ever those Grumir that you left us, that you went to 25 per cent funding after that, and arrived in 2009 and it was all without design, everything without talking and everything without assuming. That, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, is the local Covenant we found. I celebrate the collaboration that we have always had of all the Fegamp presidents, of all the Fegamp executive commissions, and that they do not want to make a political struggle or make the local Covenant a matter of saying that a socialist president has signed it. Listen, a lot of things have been done, the paper is fine, the photos are very good, but it's back to say: we arrived in 2009 and all we had to do, everything that had to be going on, was about to start. I'm glad that we, little by little — the rhythms are always better — with the collaboration of the municipalities of all political colors we could do something, which will always be 100%, 200% or 300% of what you, and you as the CEO of Local Administration, have done in three years with budgets that grew up: absolutely nothing. To speak, to speak, to speak and to sign a pact is what he deserved, but nothing else. That's the reality and I'm glad you gave me the chance to come and tell her here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u277	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor on the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u278	The truth is, Counselor, listening to him almost makes me laugh. Because, look, you tell me that in three years we haven't been able to develop the local Covenant in its entirety is true. Obviously, it didn't give us time, but it's just that you guys took twenty-four years and haven't developed it yet today. Then, please, a little sentinel. [[Applause]] And I'm going to tell you: the Local Cooperation Fund in 2004 was EUR 72,904,825, and in 2008, when we finished our legislation — which was in early 2009 — was EUR 119,687.834. This is governance, this is commitment, and this is a firm commitment for what we believe, so it was established there in the local Covenant, not words, meetings and meetings. It is true that we have had many meetings of the Galician Local Cooperation Commission, many, but you have none because you don't have it, because you're not interested. Besides, if they were so well assumed all the skills that have not been developed for these eight years, they would not have claimed the president of the board again at the last meeting of the Fegamp all that, and it's just the same again. And I'm going to read to you textually — which I didn't want to do, because sometimes it's a bit boring — which says in paragraph 6, "Subvention and investments" — which is what Fegamp asks for textually: "Requesting that the Galician Council sets as basic criteria for the distribution of investments in works, funds and economic aid to the municipalities the advertising, competition and equality and non-discrimination criteria, with pre-established and known evaluation criteria, as determined in Article 22 of the General Grants Act and in the Galician Grants Act". And when he speaks of the Local Cooperation Fund, he says, "The elimination of all grants, and even those of the Local Cooperation Fund, distinguishing between those that have to be finalists or those that have to be necessarily by a competitive competition procedure." And so I said in my first intervention, I didn't say they had to be all. And, look, in the case of subsidies, don't get your hands on it, and when you say we were customers, you bring data here and you prove that's our way of ruling. And I'm telling you more: in the plan Hurbe grant, taken by you last year, in 2016, forty municipalities, thirty-nine of the People's Party were benefited. And the worst thing is that of those thirty-nine of the People's Party, a large percentage of agreements were already signed before the invitation to grant came out. That's caciquil, and that's really an unfair way of ruling. I don't know why they approve a law of transparency if, in total, their way of ruling is opaque. Why do they approve a grant law if they then use exceptionality? Is this the way you have to rule? Anyway, I'm asking you. Tell me clearly what the costs of primary education centers and health centers that have taken over from Galicia to today, what plan they have and what schedule they have to achieve as much as 100 percent of them. And -- returning to the same thing -- he told me there was a 13-year job. Yeah. And? But for 13 years, they tied up and tied up, and we took five months to carry it out and lay the funds. Because the local cooperation fund was, yes or no? It was, wasn't it? As long as it was a time of growth. But he was. Isn't he gifted? Well, in everything else, they laid the groundwork. Tell me it's not developed in 100 percent. Of course, but there are certain things that have been very early and that, for lack of the will of your group, of your government, are not materialized to this day. So what I'm asking you to do is to develop it. I know it's good for everyone, and -- I said it before -- here are a lot of mayors -- who were mayors -- and there are a lot of concierge and concierge, and we're sure to agree on that. What I ask you to do is assume that you have to develop the things you sign and those you commit to, not just write them on paper. And I think I have nothing else to say. Thank you very much and good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u279	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. You have the floor, to close, the vice president and chairlor, public administrations and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, because she'll laugh, she also gave it to us when we arrived in 2009 and we saw that there was no assumed health center, that there was no assumed education center. It's just like that, that wasn't able to deny it. I wish I wouldn't, because then I gave him the data... yes, if it was established, in January 2006. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And it turns out that in April 2009, three and a half years later, you in five months have signed a paper -- great speed we've already congratulated you -- because we've already congratulated you at that moment and I congratulate you again now. [[Murmurs.]] Listen in five months, you can sign a paper, if you work, of course. What happens is that in three and a half years, I'm not able to assume a single health center that was in the first clause... No, the first one was the local cooperation fund. You tell me it's in 119 million. Listen, it's the same figure you're currently in, but with a difference, that there's now 1 billion euros less in budget than you had and being a fund referred to as a percentage of the Joint Income, it would have to be a lot more for that logic, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. And it turns out it's the same as now, that there's 1 billion euros less after the whole crisis. It's clear how the figures finally leave some good and others not so good. It turns out there was so much money and he tells me that there were 119 million, I'm telling him they're the same as now, but with an income approved in this Parliament that year now it's 1 billion less. What happens is that we did what we did was armoury, even though the board was entering less money for tax collection. It seemed very important to us that the municipalities didn't suffer that mingue that was suffering from Galician Junta, and that's why we did it. And, yes, you kept it. Man, I'd miss more, it's a law. It's just that it's automatic, I'll say it again. But where we have to negotiate, where we have to set ourselves up and row with the municipalities, knowing what they assume and what they don't, there I'm telling you that they haven't done anything at all; otherwise, explain why in three years no health centers, why in three years no unit school, why no heating or cleaning expenses are incurred, nothing at all. Everything had to be done, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, since the year 2009 with much smaller budgets. I've already told you before, and you haven't told me anything either -- I guess because there's a little bit to say -- about the Grumir theme. It's a real scandal. You had a funding assumption -- 25% each year since 2006. They were -- I don't know why, I can imagine -- passing and saying, no, better the next year than 50%; no, not now, the next year 75%; and when the year 2009 came and 100% had nothing assumed and the model had to be changed. We had to assume everything and now we're finishing up. And he says, of course, that this is an unfinished model. Of course it is, of course, that the municipalities will continue to ask for freedom, publicity and free competition in grants. You tell me and start talking about customerism in the grants. Do you know that in the order of consistural houses, which was the largest that his council had, when I arrived in 2009, I found that 70% of the funds were allocated to 30% of the municipalities? Do you know who 30 percent of the municipalities were? The counties of the Socialist Party and the BNG? The Socialist Party especially. Do you know who 70 percent of the municipalities only took 30%? The municipalities of the PP. And so, finally, if you want, we compare percentages whenever you want, and you'll see how these accusations of clientelism end up, if you put the mirror in front of them, they fall for their own weight. I, really, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, am glad that we realized and I hope that this interpellation would contribute something, at least, to better talk less, assume less and work more. I agree. There were not many meetings of the Galician Local Cooperation Commission. What happened was a lot of assumptions about the expenses of health centers and schools. You ask the municipalities. What do you prefer? Are you coming to meet Santiago every three months with the president of the board, as they did with Mr. Touriño, with you and the advisor who was carrying the skills at that time, or don't have to come so much, but when they come to a meeting they say that their health center from the coming semester doesn't have to pay the expenses anymore because they're paid to Junta in Galicia? I'm sure the counties governed by the Socialist Party also prefer the second option. That's why we chose, less meetings, less papers, less photos, but more cost-taking when it cost the board of Galicia the most. Let's keep going. We now have another meeting, indeed, after a meeting I believe that quite fruitful — also recognized by the President of the Fegamp, of the Socialist Party — since you are so committed to putting on a registration, of the Socialist Party, that you have recognized that the Union has made an important effort and that you still have to make more effort. Of course. To see if we are able to involve the Members — who, by the way, are in the local pact drafted by you —. Deputies have to be involved. Deputies have a lot to say. Deputies can't think that all the problems of the small municipalities are just the small municipalities or the Galician board, as happened to the subject of flooding. The problems of the small municipalities are also of the deputies. Let's see if in this new local pact, if in this new impetus to the local pact, we're able to convince them at four o'clock. I'm sure at least that effort, if you can, will be worth it. And we will follow, I tell you, without so much propaganda, without so much accusation, without saying that nothing has been done, but doing it. It's very easy to say that many years later -- because we've been more years than you've been ruling -- we haven't done everything we had to do. I recognize it, but if I don't do everything you have to do not do anything at all — which is what happened from 2006 to 2009 — it's going to be a big difference, where I always hope to be on the side of those who do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u281	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the next interpellation. Interpellation by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the actions of the Galician Union to address problems related to violence in sport
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u282	Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u283	Thank you, Mr. President. We are now bringing a subject to the debate that seems relevant to us, on what we want to focus on some of the issues in which we believe that everything is not doing the right thing. We point out that in the case of the confrontation of violence in the sports field there is a good way but there is a bad speed. Sport itself is a very relevant element of socialization, especially I'm thinking about children. It has a very powerful, very powerful educational and training value. Basically the base of the image and example. True, when I was thinking about intervention and talking about examples in sports, I thought there were other examples. I sometimes see here some reactions by calling some Members "ridiculous" and they didn't seem very exemplary; so it's not so easy to talk about violence either because sometimes you see something a little inexplicable. But, in any case, talking only about sport, the image and example are fundamental elements, which is known as modeling learning. Through what parents and mothers do, what very well-known people do, even close but well-valued people, children learn a lot of questions, and maybe we're not in an optimal situation at this point. There's been progress, it's undeniable. And I think it's a common merit of administrations, of the media — which they bet on this issue — and of many sports organizations, also clubs. I think there's some progress. But as I said, we're not at a good speed. The importance of the impact of sport has a double thread: it's very good if we do it right, but it's very bad if we hurt it. And so what we're thinking is that there's a problem related to the violence around sport and within the sport that acquires a very large potential and that we have to deal with. And we're not seeing activity in that sense. When we talk about violence, we talk about three aspects: firstly, inter-group violence, which is mainly focused on issues between diseases; gender violence, which is mainly present in male sport; and racism and xenophobia, which exists, and there is enough, within the sport. With regard to the inter-group issue, we believe that too much — or not limited enough — is fostered in a fairly tribal context of group identity, perhaps exaggerated. And perhaps there are some public issues and declarations that fuel unnecessary tensions, and I think we should always be careful to allow, if not to ignore, issues in this regard. And many times there are groups that feed identity issues of their own collectivity among affections that we must be aware that they do not contribute to good sports development at all. On the question of gender, the problem basically, as you have pointed out in this House and many people who work on the subject and who know the situation, is that there is still social tolerance — less than there was, but still exists —. As I said, it is more than proven — all studies point to it — that much more occurs in male sports than in female sports, for obvious reasons. And it is true that the greatest presence of women's sport in the media — now absolutely no women's sport — and the greatest social relevance — contributes to equalizing in this sense. But there's still a lot to do. And there's a masculinization of sport. It seems that there is still a certain social tolerance in which we contribute to assuming that sport, especially the sport of competition, is a masculine issue, of course the wrong question. And on racism, even more so than in other cases, there is a problem of tolerance. There are many cases of racism within which it is also called, in the age of social sciences, the "symbolic racism", basically the one that says, "I'm not racist, but..." And, as we already know and they explained to me as a child, everything that comes before the "but" isn't worth it. And there's a lot of statements, a lot of images in sports, which still feed some aspects, and we're not being at all powerful against it. Unesco points to racism within sport, particularly within football, as the great problem of inequality and violence in sport. To deal with this — we are aware — there is a normative framework. But what we have pointed out is that this regulatory framework is insufficient, it has been revealed to be absolutely ineffective. There is a Galician sport law that has a title IX dedicated to this point, but it contains some aspects or contains some proposals that have not shown much effectiveness. The Galician Commission for the Control of Violence, because it is mild, I think it is overly discreet. That is how it would cost us to find a handful of people who knew who they were — I mean within the sports field, of course. There is a Galician Committee on Sport Justice, but it is solely responsible for the application of sanctions, but not for the development of actions to prevent such violence. There are action protocols that involve many. The role — we say today — bears it all: sport associations, clubs must be involved, but ultimately they don't develop any action. That protocol is absolutely inapplicable. So, as we've already pointed to other issues on other occasions, it can be interesting, it can bring, put things on paper can contribute. But what we think is that we have to be effective in applying what is put on a paper. And, of course, it's not only a sanctioning aspect. Sanctions really don't limit too much, because the goal of a sanction is to be restrictive, because of its consequence; but the sanctions really in the sports field, on the subjects that have to do with gender, on the subjects that have to do with racism, on intergroup issues, as we said, do not really limit. Why? Because they're only relevant to their content when they deal with great professionalism, let's say. Of course, but they're big for everyone else but not for that ear. Therefore, organizations that have to endure these sanctions do not make a great effort and do not produce the desired effect. So they can't finally get the real effect, because when we move them to other contexts, those sanctions disappear or are practically not issued. Why? Because in the end, besides, there's always a latent, wrong idea, which is: we're not going to damage the federations, we're not going to damage the clubs. But it's the ones that must ultimately also be responsible for the situation. However, as we said, there is a normative framework but there are no training aspects. Lack of training in the face of sport violence, lack of training. There are teachers in training schools who complain that the space of violence in sport is not within the themes, or if it is, it is given in an absolutely tangential way. But we need to talk about this; we need to talk about schools of parents and mothers; we need to talk about training to trainers so they can teach and teach to learn much better, so they can educate in tolerance, because 99.99% of the boys and girls who do sports are not going to be professional, it's not necessary to educate on professional issues, but on educational matters. It is necessary to co-responsibility with clubs in the limitation and confrontation of aggressive activities, not as it has happened on some occasions, when the Administration has avoided speaking or, simply, found problems on club issues, and clubs are important, they are responsible, but they are not solely responsible. We could talk about all of this because reality is not all bad, there have been progress — if there has been progress — but we need to talk about all of these things and have some example and some relevant data. In 2008, to deal with this problem, it was believed that in fact it is more efficient, the CSD Anti-Violence Commission — cursed Zapatero, who fought against violence in sport, which is the example sometimes!— What does the Anti-Violence Commission say about data in Galicia? He says that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u284	They don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u285	It's a matter of education. If they talk to me, I agree. Then call his attention to him. It's very complicated for them to talk to me and not answer. [[Laughter]] I'm being rude, and on top it's my fault! [[Applause]] I could ever pay the house. Anyway. He said that this anti-violence commission says that 10% of incidents from all over Spain occur in Galicia; that we are the third autonomous community in number of incidents recorded. And it also says that they are mostly produced in football, although that's an obvious explanation, because it's the sport most federal chips have, but it's mainly produced in the middle of amateurs, in the middle of amateur sports, where most of the incidences are related to violence. And especially points out the issue of racism as well. We accept, therefore, that there are not many complaints and incidents of what really happens; there is a very small percentage of what happens. The sports camps, the pavilions, are full of aggression and violence — often verbal — in terms that are unacceptable and that we are accepting. It's happening and we're not dealing with it. We believe that it is possible to take more steps, and with all our will we bring this initiative so that between today's interpellation and the proposed part that will touch us later we are able to build among all a proposal that improves the current situation, which we believe — as we say — that goes in the right way for some progress that has been made, but that in recent times we see a little lack of speed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u286	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u287	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torrado, if you will allow me, first I thank you for your initial intervention, I think that's how you can reach agreements, and I'm sure, in addition, that we will be able to arrive at the motion. And a tip, if what you want is that every time you're talking here and they tell you something -- in my case from there, almost always from there -- you have to answer, then you don't do anything else. So be careful because sometimes you, if you're sitting there, don't put yourself in your place, don't listen to what's said from there. I mean, it's an education issue, I agree, but if you have to answer, if I had to answer all the things I hear when I'm talking from there, I wouldn't do anything else. I'm telling you to make it clear. [[Applause]] Having said this, Mr. Torrado, I agree, I think it is a matter of what we should talk about and what we should not talk about too much. By the way, I believe that this is the first time in the years I have been in this Parliament, which are already a few, that an opposition group — and, of course, the Socialist Group — raises an explanation on this issue. I think it's good that we talk about this and it's good that we try to reach agreements. And I'm sure there are things to improve and I'm sure there are things you could do and you're not doing. The last case you had on your land very recently with that footballer, with Carlos Arturo Sánchez, who was subjected to insults and harassment. He denounced it and did well, that's what he had to do, that's things that can't be allowed, and that gave rise to sanctions. So that proves that the system works or, at least, that when there's a complaint, it's not given its back and it's not done as if nothing happened at all. But of course you can do more things!, of course you can collect more data to really see the dimension of the problem! And, of course, depending on that you can react! Anyway, I'm telling you one thing, I disagree. You — you have read exactly in the exposition or interpellation you have made — says that there is still latent social tolerance that protects and sustains the existence of manifestly reprehensible behaviors and attitudes. I'm not going to tell you this doesn't happen, because in some case, unfortunately, it happens, but it happens in an increasingly isolated way. In some places it's practically non-existent, and I'm glad that it is, that means we're evolving, that we're increasingly aware that sport is what it is, a healthy practice, a practice of coexistence, but it doesn't have to be a place where the violent will expose their frustrations and where they're going to throw bubbles or provoke all sorts of conflicts. I think the panorama has improved a lot. You said it too, but I think you've improved more than you say in your explanatory statement, so I wanted to say so, because you're a little bit interested in me. I think that, fortunately — in my opinion too pessimistic — we are something better. Do we have to keep making progress? Of course! But what I don't agree with is that we have a latent and widespread problem in Galicia of sports violence. Here are the statistics, and I know that the statistics reflect what they reflect, an analysis of the data that we have, and probably have to have -- I agree -- more data to analyze and see the dimension of the problem, but the statistics, especially compared to other autonomous communities, tell us that here, fortunately, we are something better. It's clear that tolerance has to be zero, but percentages say hundreds, probably thousands, of sporting events, especially on weekends in Galicia, and most of them, fortunately, develop normally. Faced with those isolated behaviors, logically, we have to react. I think education is the basis. As in so many things, here too. I think with good education, and especially with the education of boys and girls when they start with sport, we can make a lot of progress. We also have to campaign from the Administration; we have to have a proactive attitude; and, of course, when violent events happen that require a reaction from the Administration, we have to react logically, and for that are the mechanisms, which in Galicia are in the Law of Sport. You voted against that law, but I believe that there is a title — you even referred to it — devoted to sports justice, reacting to situations of violence in sport, and I sincerely believe that they are working, at least, in cases where they arrive. Another thing is that they should get more cases, that we have to report everything, that we can't afford anything at all, and that no case should come because we would have to act so that they wouldn't come under any circumstances. But when they give, I think there's a reaction. You know there are three kinds of instances to react to sport violence through Galician Sports Law. Sports disciplinary power, which is where most cases are given, corresponds to federations, also to arbitrators, players, technicians. When you have knowledge of some kind of circumstance that deserves to be denounced for constituting some kind of manifestation of violence in sport, you're the first instance, so to speak, if you talk about sports justice, which is sports disciplinary power, where they have occurred annually, fortunately, not many. I'm telling you again that, if there was more data, more knowledge and more encouragement not to let anything happen, they'd probably have to act more, but when they get there, they act, and I think they're acting consistently, within the powers and within the capacities that give them the Sport Law and the Sport Disciplinary Power. I think that in Galicia this process works well. After the second instance, the sanctioning authority in administrative and sports matters. The Galician Committee of Sport Justice has already acted a lot more directly here. You said you're not a well-known organ. That's abstract maybe even good, because you don't have to act often. I have a record that, when cases arrive, it acts, and acts with total impartiality. I don't think there's any doubt, I don't have it, and I hope you don't, either, that it acts with total independence. And in addition to sanctions that can reach up to 30,000 euros, closure of facilities, suspension of federal licenses... I think there is a possibility, when the case so requires, of acting vigorously. Then, finally, there's the criminal court. Anyone in the presence of any circumstances related to sport violence, as in any other criminal offence, has an obligation to denounce it on the criminal court. So these are the three mechanisms that the Galician Sports Act has provided for to cover all the circumstances, and I believe — I say again — that they work properly. But in the end, these are movements of reaction, and we have to believe much more in prevention, education, in campaigns to promote sport as health, in sport as healthy practice, as a way to foster friendship and the relationship between people, and never as a way to exteriorize violent behaviors, frustrations, xenophobic attitudes, against gender equality or with anything we're trying to eradicate. I tell you, we can talk a lot about this, we can all see how mechanisms work better, I think today we can't be satisfied, but I honestly believe that the situation is not alarming to bring it to Parliament. Yes, of course, you can bring to Parliament because this is where the beginning of a lot of things is, but to say that in Galicia there is a latent, alarming and urgent problem that you shorten with regard to violent attitudes in sport, I sincerely believe that today, fortunately — and that tells many of the people who practice sport — is not so. Better, of course. To say that we're in an unbreathable environment as far as sports practice is concerned, I think it's not, fortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u288	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u289	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm used to answering when they talk to me, but I don't mean it. Simply, if you're talking to me, I'm talking, but for an education matter. In this Parliament there is little dialogue and too much applause, I think, is an attitude. Sometimes what you talk about suggests interesting things, then it's not bad. It's true that I don't see it much, but in the end. I don't think I said it was an unbreathable environment, nor did I say it was alarming. I said, and I support it, that there is a latent situation, in which there are reprobable behaviours in terms of gender-based, xenophobic and intergroup violence, that we are not correctly shortening. I think so. I understand that the bodies that have to regulate this, when a complaint comes to them, they process it and they do it naturally, without apriorisms, I am fully convinced. But the data we have from the Antiviolence Commission say that last year 22 cases have been solved throughout Galicia, and I think few. What I'm saying is that there's a reality far beyond that data. It's not a question of what comes to us through, the question of whether we are aware of whether there is or not much more than what is said, and I say yes, I think so. And if we can't do anything beyond the sanctions we're doing, because sanctions can only be applied in these cases that come to us. But if we consider — and we consider it — that there are many more cases, much more reality, than it is reported, we can reach this — and we agree there — through educational and educational actions. But here we go to the beginning of this issue: lack of training in the face of violence in sport. I don't say so, Miguel Juane, chairman of the Galician Sports Justice Commission. Titles an article that says so: Lack of training in the face of violence in sport. I've had the opportunity to share some courses — plus he's a perfectly trained person in this field — and I think we share that opinion. So it's not a unitary opinion. The experts in the field also say this: there is no training to deal with. Coaches often don't know how to deal with some situations; club managers sometimes don't know how to deal with and have to tie themselves solely to policy issues. These pedagogical policies need to be developed in this field, but there is no training in training schools in this field. So what we say is: if we agree to assume that there is much more to it than to say -- and it seems that we have a discrepancy there because we believe that there are many more cases than they say, many more than those 22 -- if we assume that this is the case, we must assume that these cannot be faced with a penalty because they do not exist, they are not accounted for, so we cannot face that penalty, we must face them from the pedagogical and formative forecast. But this pedagogical and formative forecast does not exist in the training courses, it is demanded by the chairman of the Galego Committee of Sport Justice and by all the experts in the area. What we say is, there's still a lot to do, that's our position. We think the road started many years ago is good. That anti-violence commission isn't even the starting point, there are previous things. There is the involvement of other social agents — I said the media — that were involved in this kind of situation. You cited a case that I know, too. I was also seeing that he had a car problem and he didn't make it. He played at a club where I played when I was little, I mean I know the case, and I'll tell him. As you know, he said he was going to quit football because he was tired of hearing many times they had called him everything, but what he detonated was that a ten-year-old called him. I mean, in a soccer field a ten-year-old girl calls her anything... something we're not doing right! And that case, of course, hasn't been registered, because it's not finally registered, which is curious; it's also in the press... I mean, things are missing, and in this sense we bring this interpellation. Thank you for thanking me for your tone; I give you back your thanks, too, so we'll finish the day well. It is true that if we're going to talk about violence, it's not a matter of doing it in an exemplary way, and therefore it's not necessary to deepen that, with the desire to share, precisely, if we have that same vision. We seem to have a different view of the story of the situation. I hope that we can find common points for this and possible solutions to which other groups are incorporated, because, frankly, it is a subject that I believe it is necessary to deal with because sometimes we do not value the potential of sport as a tool of socialization and educational tool, which is enormous. Probably, between family and school, then that's the most important tool we have today in children and children is sport. If we use it well, we've won a lot, and I'm going to work that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u290	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. To close this inquiry, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u291	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Torado, I can tell you very little more. Now what remains, as this will end in a motion, may we be able to reach agreements on subjects that are common sense! I've already admitted in the first intervention that it is clear that it can be improved. One of the things we would like for the Government of Galicia is that — as there is a state-level commission for sport violence — it could be created and it could exist in Galicia as well. Hey, it wasn't possible! We were required from the State saying that this was an exclusive competition, that it would end in a conflict of constitutionality, and in the end, addressing it from a legal point of view, it was decided that for these matters we were at the brink of the proceedings of the constituted committee at the state level, now one of the measures that can be done is to ask it for a special zeal to act on the ground, because, from the very beginning of the Greek level, if that body existed, that would be assured. So that organ is at the state level. We can accept in a legal debate that is an exclusive state competition. But then they have to be on the ground, so that's one of the measures that we can enforce, just as you can also demand to collect more data in this system to three instances, which I had previously referred to. To criminal justice the last, but then to the two committees, to discipline and to sports justice, because in the end it is true that often only what they deal with is enough. But another field data that can be collected, which can be used for a vision and diagnosis of the much more appropriate problem, sometimes they don't have one. It is true that the Sport Justice Committee often has enough of its resources, nothing more. So, cases like what you were saying, like the case of this footballer or a lot of others that happen, because simply because people don't report them, or because if they don't do it properly, or so that's why they don't eventually give rise to an administrative procedure and therefore doesn't get into the statistics, and ultimately it doesn't seem that it happened, that it didn't exist or that it didn't happen, and often it does happen. Fortunately, it is of great importance — I understand what I am going to say — not as big as to motivate all this procedure, but of some importance, because many small facts, in the end, what can come to create — I tell you that I believe fortunately today, and we touch wood to keep it or reduce it, it's not so — it's a bad climate in a sports outlet that has to be all the opposite. So, I think we have to make an effort from the Galician Board to collect all that data, to have them. And sometimes I also tell this sports justice committee — which, as I said before, depends on the secretariat, without prejudice to its independence — that sometimes you will have to act on your own with that data you have, and not just when a resource arrives, that you have to act there always. I think that these are the kind of measures that they do, in reactive means, is to make it work better, to make them turn into preventive means too, and of course I do not think that — so I listened to you in the first, but especially in the second intervention — we agree to act in prevention. That's what you're saying, that ten-year-old girl insulting a footballer is a sample of a lot of things, right? There's no more to act in education, and parents there, of course, have a lot to say, because the administration alone and sports clubs won't be able to do everything, much less. Who has to do it, who we have to do it especially, we are the parents, but ultimately sports socialize, and in what is done in society we also have to affect very much. I think there have been initiatives that are very significant and very useful. The collaboration with the Vero Boquete Football School to promote values and equality in sport. I think Veronica Boquete, apart from a magnificent sportsman, is all a symbol for many girls who want to practice sports, who seem to have sports that are vetoed, who are only for men, and she shows that no, who can practice it with total freedom, exactly like men, and can come to success just as men have. So, I think that as this collaboration that we have with Vero Boquete, I hope we have a lot more in that time with other Welsh sportsmen and other sportsmen, because they represent the values of sport, out of all discrimination, of all violence, and I think that's why we have to go. Of course, you will also have to see the training of sports technicians, the training of trainers, to have a greater impact on the subjects that have to do with all the prevention of violence and the reaction against violence when it occurs. I'm telling you, I think there's a lot of things to do, I think there's a little bit to discuss here, and then we're right about the measures. Above all, by going a little to the previous interpellation, we can agree on the diagnosis, but then we have to hit it. And I also recognize that the one who is responsible for ruling is the first one to succeed in implementing them, to be effective and to succeed. But when we have the cooperation and agreement of all the political groups in Parliament, at least in the diagnosis of the problem and at the beginning of the measures to be taken, I believe that there is a lot of progress. And I tell you, I hope that this interpellation — as you say, very useful things are also agreed in Parliament — and of what we can do later, there is further progress to further reduce this climate of violence in sport, which — I would like to stress for the last time — in Galicia I think fortunately we are at levels that are not worrying. But in case they come to the mark, let's react as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-21-DSPG017.u292	Thank you, Vice President. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
