ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. The president of the board, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, justifies the absence of this plenary meeting because of the meeting held in Asturias and attended by the presidents of Castela-León, the Principality of Asturias and Galicia, which is held today at 12 a.m. We start with the agenda, legislative texts. Debates and votes of the Ditome, delivered by Commission 8th, Fisheries and Marisqueo, of the draft port law of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u2	The amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea are kept for discussion. The president of Commission 8th, Fisheries and Marisqueo, Marta Rodríguez Arias, has the floor for the presentation of the dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u3	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill was entered into Parliament's Register on 28 August 2017. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 29 August 2017, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to the 8th Commission, Fisheries, Marisqueo and Aquaculture. The parliamentary groups of En Marea, the Galician Socialists and the Galician Nationalist Block each presented amendments to the whole. They were qualified on 20 September 2017 and rejected at the plenary session on 17 October 2017. The Group of the People's Parliamentary Group presented 2, the Group of En Marea, 53; the Socialist Group, 177; and the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, 106, which was qualified on October 17, 2017. Commission 8th, at its meeting on 24 October, appointed the following address: Popular Group: Don Teresa Egerique Mosquera, holder; Don Carlos Enrique López Crespo, alternate. Group of En Marea: Don Juan José Merlo Lorenzo, holder; Dona Carmele Santos Queiruga, alternate. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia: María Dolores Toja Suárez, holder; Fr Julio Torrado Quintela, alternate. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: Don Maria Monserrat Prado Cores, holder; Don Xosé Luis Rivas Cruz, alternate. The session was held on 10 and 14 November 2017. The amendments to the joint text of the bill were studied in them, and the report containing the recommendations made to the Commission, consisting of the majority of the amendments made by the People's Parliamentary Group. It also recommended the acceptance of Amendment No 39 from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea; Amendments Nos 7, 35, 40, 49, 53, 54, 55, 57, 64, 106, 114, 130, 135, 141, 142, 151, 161 and 166 from the Parliamentary Group of Socialists; Amendment No 82 from the Parliamentary Group of the BNG; and Amendment No 39 from the Parliamentary Group of Socialists. There were pending possible transactions in Amendment No 70 to the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, and Amendment No 167 to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists. Finally, the Phoenician Government, for the most part, recommended the rejection of the rest. The 8th Commission, meeting on 23 November 2017, approved by most of the opinion that the plenary debate should take place. The ditame consists of an explanatory statement, followed by 147 articles, 7 additional provisions, 8 transitional provisions, 1 derogation provision and 2 final provisions. The articulate thickens in a preliminary title, followed by six more titles. The preliminary title refers to the general provisions; Title I regulates the port organisation of Galicia; Title II addresses the planning, management, works, environment and security; Title III refers to the public domain of the port; Title IV is dedicated to the ports and harbour areas of nautical and sports use; Title V regulates the general scheme for the provision of port services and the development of commercial, industrial or other activities; and Title VI refers to the regulation of operation and police, the powers, inspection and security and the regime of sanctions. Finally, the law is expected to enter into force at six months of its publication in the Official Journal of Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. We therefore begin the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u5	Good morning. Galicia has a large number of ports and port facilities — the highest port density on the Iberian peninsula, probably the highest in Europe — which make the port sector of Galicia a strategic sector of great potential and which has so far been regulated by a specific law since 1981, where the Statute of Autonomy in force included exclusive competition in the sector for Galicia, leaving out the so-called ports of general interest. And in a nation like the Galician, port infrastructures are therefore of vital importance. This law seeks to regulate activity in the 122 port infrastructures of exclusive competence of Galicia. And it would be normal, in a normal country, where democracy was something more than a word, which, with the transcendence of what is being regulated in this first Galician Harbour Act, the People's Party had a desire to approach, dialogue, to listen to contributions, to the views that we have of the political organizations represented in this Parliament as regards the port infrastructures that we have. But far from that reality, the People's Party, after voting against amendments to the whole and in the debate process of partial amendments, it was no longer that the knee had passed, but it had made it a real lousy. The Galician Nationalist Block introduced 106 partial amendments and the People's Party accepted a word; it accepted an amendment to a word: where it had a "constructive project" that would become called a "execution project", because it was obviously a bad approach that originally had the law. That is, 106 amendments, and the supporter of the People's Party accepts—of these 106 amendments from the Nationalist Block of Wales—a word. Dialogue, consensus, agreement, listening... Where are those words, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Clearly, they don't exist in your dictionary. We present 106 amendments to try to modify, improve many aspects that, as they are collected by law, are tremendously harmful and harmful. They want our amendments to correct some fundamental aspects such as the transfer to Galicia of the so-called ports of general interest, the control from Galicia of port activity, the sharing of the municipalities in planning and decision-making, the linkage of the economic-portuarial activity to those related to the sea and the strictly so-called port activity, the prevalence of fishing activity on nautical-sports, environmental guarantees, the prevalence of public interest on the private, coordination mechanisms, workers' labour rights, the regulation of traditional boats, the spaces for traditional boats on the docks, the limitation of fillings and gender equality in the management bodies. And, in view of these issues which seem obvious that they are not minors — it seems obvious that we are talking about matters of vital importance — the answer was the overwhelming support of the People's Party. Because this law responds to the ideological project of the People's Party of Liberalization, of profit and business profit instead of public interest and general interest. It is clear in the law — and the rapporteur, Mrs Egerique, has also explained it — that the amendments to the BNG cannot be accepted because they respond to a different model. Of course! Of course! Because, in view of the submission to Madrid of the People's Party's law, the Galician decision that proposes the Galego Nationalist Block; because, in view of the private interest of this People's Party law, the public interest that defends the Galician Nationalist Block; because, in view of the order and command of the People's Party's law, coordination and dialogue that defends the Galician Nationalist Block. And of course they are different models; different models of the People's Party, imported from the law of the state, the law of Madrid and the service of the business, and the amendments of the BNG to a project from Galicia and to the service of general interest and of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] This Galician Ports Bill, after having waited so many years, is certainly disappointing. It does not respond to the expectations and needs of this strategic sector, and it is also detrimental to the future of the port sector in Galicia. It's a norm that is intended to impose even more, if it fits, the philosophy of the market, of the free market, in its management; and it imposes, in addition, an urban model to the municipalities of the coast. It's a clearly privatizing, liberalizing law and strategic economic activity in Galicia. It is literally stated that public activity will be launched whenever necessary to address possible deficiencies in private activity. I believe that the approach of the law is already practically summarized in this. It doesn't correct and even accentuates the privatization tensions the sector is facing. The words privatization and business benefit are those that govern this Ports Act. And two examples: first, to choose from existing legal figures the corporate public entity to call the Galician Ports agency. Choose this figure, of course, to escape as much as possible from public control, to maximize the objective of obtaining business results and benefit, to be more free to apply autonomous commercial and business policies for the results account of each port, but nothing to do with the public control of it. That's why BNG has tabled an amendment that, instead of being in front of a public enterprise, we are in front of an autonomous body, in order to ensure that there is maximum public control, from the public administration, of this enterprise. Another element that clearly simplifies this objective of privatization and business benefit is the extension of concessions to 50 years. The normal thing, of course, from the BNG point of view, would be to apply the precautionary principle, and a thirty-year concession seems to us more than reasonable for a concession, and so that, at the end of which, the assessment of how that concession came about. That is why we also tabled amendments to maintain the 30-year period for port concessions. A fundamental question in this -- I insist -- first Galician port law -- in a nation, the Galician, which has the highest density of port infrastructures throughout the Spanish State -- is that this bill does not question the competitive distribution; it has zero ambition for Galician and Welsh, and the Government, the People's Party, of course, has absolutely no interest in having the incomes of such important economic activity as that generated in Galician ports or any ambition, no intention of deciding on the whole of our country's port infrastructures. It is, of course, paradoxical that in the text, in the explanatory statement, the economic and demographic weight of the coastal area, of the harbour infrastructures, but then they have no interest in the economic activity, the economic resources that generate these infrastructures, is being returned to Galicia. The Greek ports of general interest, the one of Vigo, the one of Marín, the one of Vilagarcia, the one of Coruña, the one of Ferrol or the one of San Cibrao are a tremendously profitable business for the state, and this law, of course, does not expect this resource to revert to Galicia. We can give you some data. The movement of local transit of goods generated in the German state-owned ports places Galicia in the second position of the state. We can talk about fresh fish, Galicia clearly occupies the first place, also in frozen fish; we can add to this the upsurgement of commodities in general; we can talk about the importance of the transport activity of boarding cars in the ports of general interest of Galicia; we can say that the distances belonging to these ports that are not transferred to Galicia that are dependent on these harbour authorities generate millions of euros, and then, from then on, from the BNG we have very clear that since in all these types of operations there are economic benefits by application of catching fees, of background, of aid to navigation, of passengers, of merchandise, of reception of dumps, of loading and unloading, of concession by installation of ships and industrial activities... — that is, by a very important economic amount — the normal thing is that a government wants to have control over these resources. The People's Party, no; the People's Party doesn't even want to hear about us controlling our money, no. The People's Party is comfortably set up to go to Madrid and to ask them for permission and to send us some resources if they have the right to do so. It is clear that the money of these questions Galicia neither smells them nor smells them!, with which, wonderful business; wonderful business the economic activity in Galicia that talks to Madrid, which remains with the money, and Madrid decides how much it commands us, when, where and for what. [[Applause]] Of course, at BNG we believe that it is not possible to develop a port policy worthy of such a name as they continue to maintain state competence over this infrastructure. So we present an amendment that is normal, which is the transfer to Galicia of the so-called ports of general interest, which are Greek ports and which have to be competent to the Greeks and the Greeks, so simple. To the People's Party, no, it didn't seem that this issue had to be addressed. This law consolidates the harbour area as a space for the exploitation of activities not linked to the sea. Any kind of activity is going to be possible in Galician ports, they don't have to be activities derived from port activity or linked to activity at sea. The People's Party didn't want to hear about it being put, at the end of "business and business" activities, "connected to port and sea activities." He didn't even want to hear about it. You want to convert ports into real business for any kind of activity; activities that can be located in any other space, that do not have to be located on the maritime front, nor have to constitute a barrier, nor have to occupy a space as precious as Galician ports. For the People's Party is denying that only the essential and fundamental issues linked to the sea are settled there. No, free bar, shopping malls, business centers and cashing out our country's infrastructures -- a clearly liberalizing purpose. BNG has tabled amendments to change this purpose, amends to link port and sea activity, and we meet with the People's Party wall. The municipalities with this law will simply find themselves in the position of Applause than the harbour authority decides, they will not have any capacity to condition the actions being done in the port area, nor will they be able to issue any reports that are binding, beyond being able to complain. This law is a blockage before the revision and modification of municipal management instruments. Municipal ordinations have to adapt to what the port authority decides, they remain genuine pagans. The BNG has tabled amendments for the establishment of a port coordination body between the municipalities which have ports and the port authority; amendments for the municipalities to have something to say in the management of these harbour areas; amendments for them not to have to pay port fees for the activities they do in port areas; activities that are perfectly in urban planning, but the People's Party did not want to know anything about this at all, just as it did not want to know anything about changing an aberration like an activity such as bathing in the port area or fishing can be punished with 60,000 euros. Well, the People's Party didn't want to change such barbarity. Just as he did not want to accept any amendments related to the working conditions of men and women working in port facilities, nor did he want to know anything about traditional boats, despite the fact that on the side of the Culturmar Association, the Galician Maritime Culture Federation, brought us to the political organizations represented in this Parliament by an e-mail asking us to take into account their approaches and that the issues related to traditional boats, with their moorings, were reflected in this law, where not a single word, not a single moment is intended to make reference to the existence of traditional boats in our country, and at least...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u7	...there seems to be evidence that they have to be tied up in some port, they won't be tied up there on a beach. Well, they don't even appear mentioned once, and the People's Party didn't want to change this issue either. In short, the People's Party's cheerleader continues to aim for this law to follow the path it is adopting lately, which is to legislate for the benefit of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u9	...of business lobbying. With which, the Galician Nationalist Block will vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Indeed, today comes full of the Ditame issued by Commission 8th, Fisheries and Marisqueo, on the Galician Port Bill, but even though those who are present here are left to know what the process was, the procedures that followed, I wanted to explain, before explaining the reasons for our position, a little what I have submitted to the Socialist Parliamentary Group this process, which has happened since we were here, in this plenary, commenting on this draft port law until today, which was what happened in the middle. For what has happened is that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled 177 amendments, of which we have to say that they have been adopted 18. There was an additional transaction, with which, 19. Of 177, 19 amendments accepted. I know that after listening to the BNG companion, it may seem like a good result, but it's not. It's really not a good result, at least it's not enough for us from our group to change our vote in relation to this project. On the other hand, we also thought that a work of dialogue would be carried out in the presentation, a work that would talk about the amendments presented, with the intention of being able to reach an agreement and change our vote today; that is, we would have long meetings, with good results and with, let's say, somehow, happy endings. It wasn't like that. We got to the presentation and they told us we had 18 amendments approved, and the others didn't know why they weren't approved, they just got to be part of the 150 that were left out. That's what happened. A monologue by the People's Party Parliamentary Group; that's what the presentation was, a monologue. [[Applause]] It's not just a matter of accepting few amendments, it's also how they do it; it's how they do it. With which, I hope you will understand that, after this has happened, our opinion, based on the amendments that have been accepted — as I said in 177, 19 — will understand to this day that it is still the same. There are no conditions for us to change our vote and therefore, as is logical, we will vote against it. And the conditions are not given because, as it was said, the PP did not do the work for it to be so; it did not work in search of a consensual law, in a matter as it is ports, and that it will have such a big impact on the Greek coastal villages. So this bill was out of hand, and after the various proceedings, it was still out of hand. If it was disappointing, because it continues to be disappointing, I repeat, because the work was not done by the People's Party so that this was not so. If he didn't have any performances or planning on the German port system, today he still doesn't. If he had too many uncertainties or suspicions that were not clarified, today he still has the same uncertainties, nothing has changed. With regard to the treatment of municipal competences, we did not share it at the beginning of the processing process and, since we tabled amendments on this subject and which were not accepted, we continued without sharing it. It's an outdated project, we've explained it, and it's still, because it started to come up more than three years ago. The legal memory is from July 2014 — July 2014!—. It's so out of date that Fegamp's considerations are dated November 15, 2014, before the last municipal elections in May 2015, and it doesn't even incorporate them, it has the considerations of the previous Fegamp. That's why we say, among other things, that she's out of line. It's disappointing, because they missed a great opportunity with this Port Bill. Even though it's a law of 147 articles, it doesn't take port charges into account. They have explained to us many times that it is not a question of that, but it is that the Socialist Parliamentary Group not only says this, but also says the Economic and Social Council, which recommended a title in this law dedicated to taxes, and does not contain it. It doesn't have a budgetary impact, it doesn't expect any kind of investment to be made. On the one hand, we're told that this is a bill that will be a shut-up tool for the development of Galicia and that Ports is very important in long-term investments, but on the other hand, it turns out that they do not set any general planning or provide any forecast for the realization of investments. They do not define a global plan, from which, in any case, they would derive the specific plans for each Welsh port. And in that direction, since the Socialist Parliamentary Group seemed to us an important drawback, we tabled amendments to mark criteria, set priorities, an analysis of ports in relation to the supply of port facilities, the port system, the territorial model and the socio-economic variables. For, as I say to you, we have tabled amendments, i.e. we try to establish objective criteria to establish objective forecasts, priorities and, subsequently, establish the conditions for plans to obey a harmonised and similar design; ultimately, to make a law that would avoid sectarianism which has been used to us by the ports of Galicia, because, if there was sectarianism even now, there will now be law in hand. Once again, this is not just said by our parliamentary group, but said by the Economic and Social Council, that there was a lack of an integral strategic plan for the entire port system of Galicia, of autonomous competence, with general guidelines, with the aim to be achieved. He recommended consistency and he was ignored. And these investment plans are important to avoid what is happening today: situations such as 2016, where the investment possibilities were 9.7 million, of which only 4.2 were executed. I mean, they left out 5.5 million euros without running. And reality in 2017 is about the same way, because when we take three-quarters of the year to 30 out of nine, with 75% of the year out, it turns out that the port construction, conservation and exploitation program is only at 48%. That's why these amendments that we tabled were important and that they were not for anything heard. The bill continues to base the model on a public enterprise entity. We have already criticised the lack of transparency of Ports; in particular, in 2016 the volume of works was 8.8 million, but only 2.1 of these were through public tender, so with smaller contracts, 4.7 million euros. There is a predilection for this type of procurement, of smaller contracts, which must hardly be justified in such high use, which has to do with the need to provide these issues with a transparent management of what is currently lacking. At all, when this issue was dealt with in the Committee on Fisheries, it was explained to us by Ports de Galicia that this was due to the dispersion of Galicia. We don't share this aspect. We understand that this dispersal also exists when budgets are made, and then there is already a quantity for smaller contracts, although then, in fact, for smaller contracts there is a much more important amount, and the dispersal I say that there will be at the time of budgeting and not after, but, well... In that sense, we have to say that our Amendment No 35 has been adopted, and specifically calls for Ports to carry out a report every year, to submit to the Board of Directors and to be made public, and that in that report they indicate which contracts were made, as well as their characteristics. It's an amendment that I was looking for, precisely, to provide transparency for the management of Ports. We hope, now that they've accepted it, they've got it. Anyway, we understood that it couldn't be any other way, that they had to accept it. This law poses an important problem for the municipalities, since it is behind the municipalities — it was before —. In that sense, all the parliamentary groups of the opposition tabled amendments to this, but they did not accept any. We set deadlines — from our amendments — for two months so that, in the event of a conflict of competence between ports and municipalities, they could be resolved and not stay there in limbo, but they did not accept, they did not want to hear about deadlines. We tabled an amendment for an annual performance program, coordinated with the municipalities, with pending works, and they didn't accept it either. Other types of suppression, especially at those points where they were in conflict with municipal competences, such as special port management plans, which assume that municipal urban plans will have to be reviewed to integrate, within these plans, port planning, and also obliged ports — it is because, in fact, they did not accept the amendment — to do so within a year, and in case it is not done, it is also a problem. We were talking about abolishing the obligation of the municipalities, which arises as a result of the application of the law to adapt to municipal plans within the time of the year. They didn't accept it. It also removes the point where it is established that port works carrying out ports will not even be subjected to acts of preventive and municipal control, because they are understood to be of general port interest. They didn't accept it either. In short, with our amendments, what we were trying to do was to put some common sense into a law that would pose an important problem for the municipalities, because it creates a space within the villages, a microspace, where, ultimately, you will send out ports, and it will establish its rules. What's going to happen is that the whole village will have to adapt — the village and more the people living in the village — to which Ports establishes, obvious a reality, which is that in many of the Galician villages, mostly, it happens that its surface is the surface of Ports. Once again, what happens is they're going to jump over municipal competences and social reality. That's what this law means. And so we could go on. But once again we say it not only from the Socialist Group, but from the Fegamp, the Economic and Social Council and the municipalities themselves. All opposition groups are trying to make amends and they've accepted some, but zero. Of 177 amendments, as we said, were dealt with 19; fundamental amendments were not dealt with, so we found ourselves unable to change our vote. With regard to the concessional issue, at the age of 50, an amendment was tabled for them to stay in thirty, and they did not accept it, and this was presented, in addition, by all opposition groups. Nothing, they did not accept it, obviously, as we have said, this proposal from all groups and also from European legislation, which says that if the duration is longer than five years, the period of recovery of investment should be taken into account, compared to 50 years. To get an idea, Galician ports — for having some reference — for concrete docks, has a period of amortization of thirty years; for wood pier, it is ten years old; for machinery, less than twenty-five years old. And it turns out that with this law we are talking about the duration of the concessions being 50 years. It seems to us that it is not justified by public interests, but by paying attention to private interests. As we told you at the outset, it is an outdated project, a disappointing project, which does not include planning on the port system, which will pose a problem, as is supposed to the municipalities, because it leaves them totally in line with the plan, obliging Galician social reality, and giving free bar to administrative concessions, moving away even from the European Union. Before the amendments that we have tabled have not been taken care of — the ones of rigour, the ones of importance — which could really entail an important change in this law, because there is nothing left for us but to be able to support this project. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. Mr Merlo Lorenzo has the floor on the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u13	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to debate the Galician Ports Bill. We always felt that the need to give this project ahead, the need for a Galician Port Law for these more than 120 ports of competition, was very necessary, given the dispersion of existing regulations in these matters and many other factors. Unfortunately — and on that line there were many of our amendments — this law is not directed, precisely, to solving these kinds of issues or trying to solve many other problems, which are very necessary, precisely, for the port management of these more than 120 ports. Precisely the need to establish that integral exploitation of the set of ports of autonomous ownership, to harmonise and distribute the uses and activities and to coordinate even the economic activity of these ports and those of general interest, which are often sharing even the laughter itself, is a matter which this bill completely forgets. It's a bill, therefore, unable to initiate joint and coordinated planning, avoid unfair competences and enable a country strategy to be established in the port area. This is a question we're suffering and we're going to suffer, because this law doesn't hurt or solve it. The rule also leaves much aside, from the point of view of our parliamentary group, the resolution of the ongoing conflicts between the port authorities and the municipalities, regardless of the political colour that is at each moment. It was a good question to try to solve with this bill, but it was neither active nor passive. This project clearly invades municipal competences and does not facilitate this cooperation of which I spoke between Ports and Town Councils, especially in matters such as the treatment and use of maritime facades. We have to bear in mind, precisely, that these types of ports have a much more important integration with the towns that host them than the ports of general interest, and therefore this was a much more important issue that had been dealt with in this law, and it is not touched. Then we also have the question that the determination of the executive bodies, as is envisaged, in charge of decision-making, of the execution of the agreements, and the determination of the members of that board of directors, does not seem to be very balanced. It forgets the presence of relevant organizations, as for us may be producer organisations or trade unions, and does not quite clearly determine the mechanisms for their presence or not, in addition to obviating a part of organised civil society or the necessary municipal representation, and to increase and direct a large number of competences in bodies of one person's character, which are against the need to socialize initiatives in port policy. That is to say, it is once again a feud closed in which there are possibly many disputes and a lot of confrontation about the interests and use of this kind of port, in which the nature of services must always dominate rather than the business character, which is what this bill is all about. It is also excessively abused — and it seems very serious — since we are going to draw a law that has been demanded for a long time by the sector and by the Greek society; it is a law that is necessary for the port development of the country — from the post-development use of decrees and regulations to determine fundamental elements, from the priorities of port uses, rates, public prices, etc., and therefore clearly prevents a minimal planning or previous direction which compromises a line of action and which can be shared, for example, by legislative bodies. We cannot develop and move initiatives on this bill because it really all depends on the regulations that develop later in fundamental and important matters. So he misses all of that, which many amendments were trying to move, and these kind of questions are open. Finally, and without deepening much, the explanatory statement of this bill establishes a subordination of the public function of the ports to the private initiative. This fact is reflected in numerous precepts that contain this project, where the private initiative is preceded by the public management of the activity, from uses, concessions, administrative authorizations... it therefore subsides public interest to the particular economic interest, and moreover establishes mechanisms for the authorisation and granting of the water sheet for the private initiative which may come to collide with the neighbouring uses of marine and fisheries exploitation. We understand that several articles of the project we tabled amendments abused the time of concessions. The same fifty years seemed to us very much, given the times of depreciation of investments that could be made in connection with port infrastructures or private investments that had been amortised in fifty years; it's excessive. None of these time-related amendments, in which we underestimated something that we considered reasonable, in most cases thirty years, instead of fifty, were accepted. Nor was it accepted a question which for us was fundamental, which was to try to prevent the use of structures and ports in matters as sensitive to many populations as waste incinerators; that is, this law leaves entirely open — and our amendment, without being restrictive, went a little along that line — that the incinerations of waste products from maritime activity could only be treated like this. This law leaves open the possibility that any waste, any waste, may be incinerated, and in addition to the branch of the energy cogeneration plants, which will naturally be removed from Natural Gas. But those amendments are not accepted. So we're in front of a law that allows a priori, even if the will is not that, that anyone can set up a marine urban waste incineration plant on a harbour line. We didn't want to accept that kind of amendment, and we thought it wasn't restrictive. So, and given that only one amendment has been accepted from us, and by way of a matter mainly, we cannot support this kind of law, because we do believe that this type of law is not the law that will allow rational development and that will allow, precisely, synergies and cooperation between the ports of Greece. It is a very necessary issue, given the crisis that is going through the sector, and we must try to move forward to be more competitive, having one of the fundamental pillars of our Greek economy, especially on the coastline. We are losing a very great opportunity, and we are depending — I say — on the will of those who lay down regulations and decrees that really shape the uses and issues that reach all that this law leaves out. So we can't support her. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Merlo. The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor, Mrs Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u15	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Today, finally, after a long journey — which has been said here that you have been working for a long time in this law — I insist — making a metaphor — that you arrive at the right port, reaches Galicia, and arrives well, the first autonomous port law, a law that regulates the management of the 122 dependent ports of the Greek administration; 122 ports with very different realities — hence the difficulty also to fit this legislative text. Realitys different from the activities they develop in them and the towns where each of these ports is located. Although today the spokeswoman of the Nationalist Block Galego here spoke, in most of his intervention, of the ports of state ownership, today we speak of the first autonomous law that regulates the 122 autonomous ports. This law, which we are going to adopt today in the Galician Parliament, will allow port legislation to be adapted to the various peculiarities of the Greek docks; particularities to which state legislation cannot comply. That's why we are convinced, despite his speech, that this is evident proof that today we are strengthening our self-government. With the approval of this autonomous port law, Galician self-government is reinforced. This law takes into account, as I have said, the coexistence of the various activities in most ports, which are fishing activity, commercial activity, nautical activity, transit activity and also cultural-marital activity. Because it is not true that we have completely rejected the inclusion — certainly, in Article 54 — of cultural and maritime uses. For the elaboration of this law, Portos de Galicia and the Council of the Sea sought consensus at all times, and for this reason we found approaches to different areas linked to the sea, linked to the ports, which defined the pillars on which this legislative text had to be established, with a main objective, which is to strengthen the potential of the ports of Greece in the face of the challenges of the future. Because it's not true that it's an outlawed law, that it's a law based on the past, because it's a law that faces challenges in the future. In Galicia we have to aspire from our ports to open up new markets, we have to aspire from our ports to find new investors and we have to aspire from our ports to take out as much performance as possible to the Welsh port sector; a yield that affects the benefit of the people working in the sea sector, not as it has been said here, and a benefit that affects the marine villages, which, by extension, is the benefit of all Galicia. We're talking about greater competitiveness with this law. We speak of greater competitiveness with the absolute guarantee of fulfilling its role as public service; absolute assurance of fulfilling its role as public service. Ports are not privatized, as much as they want to say and repeat them, ports are not privatized. Self-employed ports will be able to count on new investors, of course, who, by providing services of activities such as mooring, trailering, transporting of passengers or handling of cargo, will contribute to generating jobs and will contribute to reactivating the economy and port activity in the areas and villages in which they are located. So neither goes to a completely different part of the council, but this law is intended to strengthen economic activity and strengthen the level of employment of marine villages as well. We're talking about this law of greater transparency. The fundamental law on transparency in procedures in the granting of public port services, which recovers competition from projects, requests for concessions, with the provision of public information from official bodies and bodies, will enable the best decisions to be made in the interests of the general interest. As far as port traffic is concerned, a substantial improvement is foreseen. Why is substantial improvement expected with this law? Because the new law foresees the shape of the harbour infrastructure managers' plans, and that doesn't have to be something negative, quite the opposite. These plans will plan the allocation of projects of works and installations for a time horizon of at least five years, another guarantee for the Greek ports. These plans can also be formulated for a port or a set of them to optimize resources. And what will they allow? They will make it possible to speed up current port situations, the structure of traffic in port activities, their development needs and other technical issues which will improve the conditions of delivery and facilities. We talk about ports and we talk about competitiveness, we don't talk about politics or intentions or concrete political interests. On the other hand, special plans. Special plans also collect this law, and collect the system of each port and the activities that can be developed in it, including the forecasting measures necessary to ensure efficient exploitation of port space and its connection to general terrestrial transport systems. We are also talking about the future because we are talking about greater sustainability, we are talking about environmental sustainability, about prevention and combating pollution, and we are talking about the possibility that, in any public harbour domain, in the event of a solid, liquid or gaseous discharge, the obligation for those responsible for these spills to fully regenerate the waters. In addition, the withdrawal of abandoned vessels, as well as vehicles and other objects on port land will be accelerated at last. A small incision to expand information: the law considers abandoned a ship that has already taken more than six months in the same place without appreciable activity and has not updated the payment of fees. In the case of vehicles, machinery and objects in general, ports of Galicia may declare them in a situation of abandonment whenever they stay in the port for more than a month in the same place and without activity. So, we're here at a law that guarantees agility in becoming daily and at work and in the daily business of Galician ports; speed in deadlines and also in the authorizations of seizures depending on the vacancies docking squares. These procedures will not exceed the fifteen working days, and, in case of high demand, a waiting list will be created with more defined criteria for access to the trap. Agility also in concessions. The procedure for granting concessions will be faster and will include greater guarantees for investors, with a decisive role, as I said earlier, of companies interested in generating jobs and wealth and taking forward and making our ports in Galicia competitive. So what is the four-month recruitment process could be reduced to one month, facilitating activity and simplifying bureaucracy, something that demands the vast majority of the Greeks and the Greeks. We saw in some of the amendments to specific groups that extended or reduced deadlines, that complicated the creation of agencies of other councils, which made this very difficult and even delayed the whole bureaucracy. And really what the sector is asking for, what the Greeks and the Greeks are asking for, is the simplification of bureaucracy and the agility in administrative procedures. Another demand from the sector, and in line with Royal Decree Law 8/2014, of 4 July, of urgent measures for growth, competitiveness and efficiency, was that of enlargement in the time of the harbour concessions, which with this law range from a minimum of thirty years to a maximum of 50 years. They've all denied this enlargement, they don't see that this enlargement is favorable, but it makes it easier to amortize investments and makes them more attractive. I insist, not always from a negative point of view, but in order to amortize, to do, to set up activities in the ports and to set up activities in the towns and to make from the ports economic motors in the towns where they are found. I would also like to point out that the new Ports Act entitles the staff that is watching and watching for security in the ports the character of the authority agent. That is, they will guard them, they are now being strengthened to ensure security in ports where they carry out their activities, and they can exercise records in the case of bad practices and detect with greater certainty and guarantee those who do not comply with the rules. The truth is we're talking about a reality of 122 very different ports, and as an example I've already put on commission, for example, that of Cambados or that of Celero. But we can see in every port of 122 that great differences are established between them. So the important thing about this law is that it will improve the day by day and the daily routine of work in those ports. In conclusion, and from my point of view, this legislative text is called upon to meet three objectives: firstly, it would be to establish the regulatory, organisational and collaborative framework within the whole network port infrastructure of Galicia — that is one of the main objectives — the second would be to increase the synergies of the ports of Greece in the transport of goods, because we can still improve much more than it is already done; and thirdly, to coordinate competences in port investment, transport and management of the territory. Even though other intentions are seen here, as I say, and they are always negative in the future, this will allow, in addition to being consensual, ports to better adapt to the becoming and daily routine of the towns and to improve and be a revolutionary to the economy of those villages. We are talking about the rule that will regulate the management, operation and administration regime of the port system in a manner adapted to the actual needs of the confrries, to the real needs of nautical clubs, operators, investors, entrepreneurs providing port activity; ultimately, of the whole sector, because we all have a place and we can't forget anyone because of prejudice, which sometimes have no basis for rejecting them. It is a law that has become known to Costas do Estado, Portos do Estado, Instituto de Estudios do Territorial and Fegamp itself, among others, and which has a broad consensus. What you see as disappointing, from the People's Party's Parliamentary Group, from the Council of the Sea, from the ports of Galicia, from most of the sector — from the vast majority of the sector — becomes exciting. And finally today, the first autonomous law that regulates the port system is going out of here. [[Applause]] I'm going to talk about numbers, because we also need to know what we're legislating today and also what happens in the ports of Greece. The port Galicia is 1,700 kilometers from the coast, as we know, with 122 ports of autonomous ownership. The harbour Galicia is moving, it is more than — the latest figures — 108,653 tonnes of fresh fishing, with a value on first sale of about 295 million euros and more than 2 million tons of merchandise. The harbour Galicia is an economy, it's more than 15.7 million euros of revenue for port activities; it's a multiplier effect for the added value generated in ports. The port Galicia is employment and therefore the port Galicia must always be with a perspective for the future which will guarantee the approval of this law. The harbour Galicia is an opportunity for the entire Autonomous Community of Galicia. More than 60% of the total population of the province of Galicia lies in municipalities with port facilities. It's opportunities for the Greeks and the Greeks. Finally, and as the adviser had already said in the previous debate of the entire law, the creation of this necessary legislative framework will enable us to make the most of the potential of our ports through their characteristics, singularities and specificities; that is, through the very identity of the ports of Galicia. It's interesting that integrity itself is because we also look at many amendments by the Socialist Party that were practically copied from the Law of ports of Andalusia or the Canary Islands, and we see that they do not fit the reality of the ports of Greece. This law will also allow us to enjoy a qualitative advantage for our port system with respect to other normative frameworks, something that will undoubtedly have an impact on the benefit of the whole of the Greeks, and will allow us to have a more attractive harbour Galicia, a whole that only indicates one thing: that Galicia and its ports will be prepared to face today but also to face the future. So a nuance as to the amendments. They say that accepting your amendments — especially from the Galician Nationalist Block Group — would improve the law. And we don't think this was the case. You don't have to have the criterion of absolute truth. I insist, this is a law of the sector, it's not a political law; therefore, all sectors and organisms that were affected in the ports of Galicia have participated and made their approaches to this law because, as I said, it has been working on it for many years. So we always defend Galicia's interests. And we must insist on removing that permanent lie that the Galego Nationalist Block says the ports will be privatized, because the ports will not be privatized. We don't want that idea shut up in society because it's not true. And with regard to En Marea, I have already said in the committee that we have seen ambiguity and little concretion in its amendments to establish decisively or clearly the model that you defend or a project that you want to carry out with a legislative text. Therefore, we do not want you to insist on the lack of a will for dialogue, because the Galician Nationalist Block was already presenting motions in the municipal plenary before it even introduced itself or that this law had come to Parliament, calling for the withdrawal of that law. So, in the spirit of dialogue, first we have to try to reach an agreement before we've already asked for the total withdrawal from some municipalities, that we have it with dates and we have it very clearly because it's a fact. Therefore, on the part of the Socialist Party, we accept all the considerations and amendments that we believe could enrich this law. You might think it's a little bit, but I insist that there were a lot of them that they were doing to complicate bureaucracy, increase deadlines and measures and that they might be adapted to Canary Islands or Andalusia, but not to Galicia's reality and to Galicia's legislative text. It is therefore a pity that you do not want to join and do not want to participate today in the adoption of this law, this first law of autonomous ports, which, I insist, is a guarantee for the future for the development of marine villages and for the development of port activity and the sea sector in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. We now turn to the parliamentary groups to define the amendments that have been maintained by others. You have the floor, by the Galego Nationalist Block, Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u17	The honourable Member of the People's Party began her speech by saying a very obvious question. He said this law only regulates the 122 ports of interest in Galicia; it is not about regulating ports of general interest. Sure, there it is. It's just that you're going to pass a law for a region, and BNG defends a law of ports for a nation like the Greek nation. That's where the difference is. We do not want to regulate what they leave us from Madrid, the ports that consider them not of general interest, we want to regulate all the competences, all the issues that affect us in Galicia. [[Applause]] There's the difference: a law for a region or a law for a nation. And you're going to pass a law for a region; that's the real difference. I told the People's Party that this is not a political law. Of course, as we all know, capital doesn't make politics, capital, transnationals, IBEX 35, lobbyists don't do politics, they just defend their interests. They defend their interests at the cost of pressing the rest; but no, they don't do politics; they already do you here for them. But, of course, this law is not political, because prying private against the public is not political. That it's a law to cash in against the general interests, that's not politics, that's to defend the interests of a few against the interests of most. I also said the People's Party's Member that it was normal to extend concessions to 50 years, because it is necessary to look at the economic profitability of companies. And the social profitability, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and the profitability for the service of the majority? Who looks at that profitability? It seems that you, of course, don't. And look, you guys made a real push. They did not accept, I insist, transcendent amendments, even amendments to preserve the work rights of the staff in a very important part, collected in the ESC report, which considers that, as the law does, if they leave the workers and workers of the port authorities in a situation, of course, at least ambiguous; they did not want to hear anything about it. And gender equality; gender equality, Mrs. Egerique. Equality between men and women cannot be just for speeches, it has to mean performances; actions where women are visible at decision-making positions, where women are visible where important decisions are made, where women are visible where they are talking about economy with capital letters. And it turns out there's a BNG amendment that calls for gender parity. You say in all the organs of government "will seek balance commitments"... You don't have to look, you have to do it, and you vote against gender parity in the governing bodies in a public entity like Galician Ports. Because that thing of women looks good for the discourses, but then for the real life, for the capital life, for the economic decisions, there'll "be sought," and it'll look for them, it means they're not. And, of course, you say this is a law of opportunity and everyone is delighted. I, of course, don't know how charming the councils — including the Town Councils of the People's Party — will be when they really realize what this law means. It turns out that fundamental issues that develop in the Harbour Authority area, where they develop parties, where they develop sports activities, where they are health centers, where they develop fun activities of all kinds, you deny that in this law they are excluded from paying fees. And it turns out that there are lands that are perfectly integrated into the urban plots of the Town Councils, which are not on the docks, far away, but in the village centers, and you refuse to let the Town Councils and non-profit associations be excluded from paying fees. There will continue to be situations like that the council of Cambados, which you referred to, by making the Albarinco Festival in a space attached to the Town Hall, has to pay 100,000 euros to the ports of Galicia each year, for example. And we can talk about Ribeira, we can talk about the poor, we can talk about Moaña, we can talk about Cangas. Activities of every day where the People's Party turns out it has to make the most of port activities and make the most of them. They don't say the cost of who, of course, or for who...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u19	Not even the cost of who or for whom. With which, this is the law of order and command. There is no coordination, but subordination, and they have refused to create a body that coordinates the municipalities and where the municipalities have something to say. Of course, at the BNG we believe that our sea is so precious that this law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u21	...—Filled, Mr President—of the People's Party is to cash and enrich a few at the cost of such precious goods as the sea of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. It's just that it's not just the number of amendments that are not considered, it's how they do it. It's that monologue that sets out what we get to the papers and only if we're told that they're accepted 19, and that the rest -- approximately 150 -- are out, not knowing why, why, they're out. It's the two things, it's the insufficient number so you can change the vote and so the law doesn't suppose the drawbacks it's going to suppose, and but the way it does it. That is so, because they cannot turn their backs on the Economic and Social Council, on the Fegamp, on the councils and on all the parliamentary groups of the opposition. It's the two things. And with regard to municipal issues, it's a matter that needs to be emphasized because there's really concern in the municipalities, and I wanted to insist, as I say, because, look, with our amendments precisely what we were trying to avoid the possible problems that might arise, and these issues, how to set a two-month deadline for resolving conflicts that might arise between Ports and the Town Councils, they didn't accept it. It is clear that this law will involve conflicts between Ports and the Town Councils. And if there's no time limit, they're going to stay there without a solution, and this, logically, for the people who live in the villages and for the activity that develops, is going to be a problem. We also try to suppress the obligation to integrate port planning into the municipal urban plan in a year. They give a period of one year so the municipalities can integrate the plan into port planning. And, once again, it's continuous, because they put obligations on the municipalities but they don't help them or collaborate so that they can carry out that adaptation with funding. Because, I ask you, really, what help or resources are going to make it available to the municipalities so they can make that integration that they say it has to be done in a year? The reality of the municipalities is that there is activity and that often these managements cannot be done in a year, so I ask you, what measures are going to take or what resources will make it available to the municipalities so that they can really make that adaptation? What you are doing is recentralising municipal powers in the autonomous administration, in the port area and in many other areas, and that is something we are seeing every day in the Galician Parliament. That's the reality, and this example of Ports today is another one. With regard to investments, the absence of that global plan that we are asking for and that the Economic and Social Council also called for is a problem, because we find ourselves then that leaves municipalities out and prevents them from being competitive. They exclude municipalities as if they didn't exist, and they know, they know this is so. This is a political law, of course it's a political law. We are already seeing recently that when the Council of the Sea rejects the recommendations of the Economic and Social Council are wrong, and that is a reality we are seeing in these and other cases. I would like to point out once again our amendment 35 adopted, which is an important amendment because it obliges the ports of Galicia to make a recruitment report with the characteristics and justifications of the contracts being carried out. It is important to provide greater transparency to Ports, because, recalling the data of the previous year, of 8.8 million, 4.7 — more than half — were smaller contracts. As far as administrative concessions are concerned, they say this is not a political law. Of course it's a political law. This is where private interests are taking precedence over public interests. He said it was a sectoral law. This is a sectarian law, not a sectoral law. So, where is the defence of public interests over a period of 50 years, against European legislation, which speaks of five years, or the period of recovery of investment? At Vigo's hospital that investment, which is the most important thing they've ever made in the Feijóo government, 300 million peaks, turns out it's 20 years. You guys are talking here for 50 years today. That's a political law, of course. You come here to talk about something that's not written. This is a political law. And I also wanted to talk about the impact of gender because the other day we could all see in the press a photograph entitled "The Galicia that marks its course." And there you could count on your fingers the women there were. With these laws, what they're doing is they're making it even more difficult than there's more women in Greece who can mark the course. They have to favor more women than they do. Looking for equality is not enough, and so we found ourselves with images like the one we saw the other day, that there were all men and where they could count on the fingers of the women who were there. I think we have Welsh, many Germans, who can mark Galicia's course. Give them the chance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Merlo Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u25	Thank you very much. It's not a question of lack of concretion or ambiguity when the amendments are tabled. The text of this bill itself is plagued by empty areas, areas that leave to the development of a regulation, a subsequent decree, the trunk issues of it. And, therefore, contaminated by that spirit, our amendments were very open. We are aware that this is not the law, as we say, that they needed these 122 ports, it is a law that can only be brought out by an absolute majority. It's a law that doesn't meet what a sector demands, it's a law that serves a business initiative. The very definition of the same thing. It must be borne in mind that these more than 120 ports have emerged, precisely, as a necessary and logical part of the development of the marine-fishing sector. Historically it was. Today they are bound in an inescapable way. It would be necessary and essential that this law should address these problems in order to facilitate, precisely, cooperation and synergy between these ports, which are irrevocable in order to achieve that necessary excellence and to remain not only pointers in matters such as fishing and seafood, but also in order to remain sustainable in that regard. You don't pick up these kinds of concepts in that law, it's not the approach it takes and therefore we consider that with amendments or without them this law will not be directed towards that. So, with our amendments, taking into account that block against which we are facing -- because it's not accidental for a law that has been asking for many years to be removed in this way, with that preliminary draft that was already practically armoured and that little difference, after accepting certain amendments, from the project we have here today in debate -- was a matter with which we could simply try to cut short and minimize the negative impact that the development of these subsequent regulations might have on the sector and on the towns that host it. Of course, despite the bond and the openness of these initiatives, both open and open as the text itself, because they are not accepted. We regret that this law does not allow precisely issues such as the promotion of entrepreneurship and the initiative of the sector itself. The investment of private capital is more favourable, not necessarily linked to the sea sector and not necessarily linked to the country. We think it's a risk. We're not negative and we're never against entrepreneurship and private capital and industry, but we're against radically that those issues... and these ports are -- like health and education; they're part of that same package -- structures that are to provide a service; they can give a benefit, perfect, but service is always the character that must dominate this, and this law no longer goes that way, this law already sets the subject of the services to be provided by the sector and the towns that host them in a second term. So it's not a valid law for the sector, it's not a law that allows a sustainable, rational and logical development of the primary production sector, linked to fishing and seafood, and even other matters that depend very much... given the lack of those infrastructures necessary in our country to connect us with the rest of Europe and that we only have such issues as the so-called maritime highways, it's very necessary that these kinds of issues be solved and tackled in a law — that doesn't touch it — and that allows, precisely, that synergy between these ports of autonomous ownership and the ports of general interest of the State, which would be the ones that would have to accept, precisely, that burden on the transport of these goods and others, so necessary for the industrial development of our country. So we're not going to sink much more into that, in everything we've already said. It's not a law for us, it's a missed opportunity. The debate as we understand it has not taken place, we are simply stuck right now in the parliamentary process of having to go through the necessary filters; the debate has not been so. Unfortunately, we are all aware of this, because what prevails in this preliminary draft of law has been marked for a long time, and the spirit of it is very clear and manifest. We therefore regret that you are not taking advantage of the opportunity from this House to facilitate these issues that we have already reflected, and I say nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u26	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u27	In order to make some points where it was stressed here, after the first intervention, it is in favour of the presence of women, and of course we are the one, Mrs Toja, to direct the future of this community; all, starting with the rapporteurs — Mrs Prado and myself, with regard to Mr Merlo — of the defense of this port law for the future. Mrs. Prado, you speak here that you want to impose your nationalist model already, with the model of the Greek nation; we don't know very well which, but for that too, first, they would have to win the elections and explain exactly what they want, because, of course, you speak of a law of autonomy. Of course we speak of a law of autonomous ownership, and there are ports of state ownership, and of course we are here, in addition, approving the first autonomous law of Ports, which will strengthen the self-government of Galicia, which is what we represent, in addition, the People's Parliamentary Group in most of this House. [[Applause]] The social profitability you're talking about is that of the development of the ports integrated into the marine villages in which they are. And with regard to social profitability, I too have to set the example of Catalonia. Do you want that profitability, that one day they say one thing and the next they say the other and the opposite? What is your model in this law now that you want to impose here? Be clear as well as you mean. Social profitability with this law is guaranteed when ports — increasingly adapted to this — can be integrated into villages, can develop economic projects, of course, that can generate jobs and when you can expand the work of these ports, because all ports have, in addition, fishing as the main activity in marine villages; therefore, also on the subject of coordination with local administrations and autonomy that the municipalities and ports have to have. In this case, we're talking about special plans, but in no case is this plan going to subjugate what the Municipal Management Plan can do, so they'll have to live together. And when there are two administrations that share territory and share a village, they will have to live together. If we're setting deadlines and always imposing one's criteria on top of the other, we're never going to get to a clear coexistence, which up until now hasn't had any major problems in these marine villages. This will solve many problems: urban development plans, special plans, increases in concessions, the issue that these concessions can be even more attractive so that this attracts investment in different towns... and in a few years, when this law is in progress and if it's developing, we'll also talk about results. So we insist that here we are talking about the future, here we are talking about projects that are going to develop the Welsh villages and that will be, in addition, very positive for Galicia. We talked about an exciting project, I insist, and you were talking about a disappointing project. We, and most of the Greeks, most of the people connected to the sea sector, talk of satisfaction with the project, with this law, talk of satisfaction on the way it has gone, because the process of elaboration has been long, but it has come, as I said at first, to good port; a process of elaboration that was carried out by the hands of the sector, the agents, the ports of Galicia, the Council of the Sea and this People's Parliamentary Group, involved and interested in the successful achievement of this new normative framework for the ports of Galicia. You have a similar speech to reject this law, to reject the Animal Protection Act, to refuse the Act on the Application of Entrepreneurship Measures and to refuse other laws in which I was present in the debate. So the speech always has the same line and we don't look at any constructive options to get out ahead of these themes. We are also satisfied, because this shows that, by being committed to a common job, we can achieve a high-quality normative, technical and participatory project, which is becoming as representative as possible, conjugating all needs and demands — which, I insist, are not always the same — with the coexistence that this implies and with the partners involved. And finally, satisfaction, because today we are going to adopt a policy framework, a very important law, which has the will to coordinate and which has the will to cooperate — we want to impose nothing —; the will to coordinate, to cooperate and to be materialized with the social and institutional consensus achieved by this law. So they're still in time to vote in favour, if I with my intervention could convince them of something, because I'm sure that in a few years we will talk here — and I hope more women, Mrs. Toja — about the success of this law and the application and the favor that this law had for the marine and coastal villages of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Debates and votes by Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, of the Proposal for a Law, of a People's Initiative, of measures to guarantee energy as a public service and against energy poverty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u29	The amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea are maintained. The president of Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, Ms Cristina Romero Fernández, speaks for the presentation of the dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u30	Thank you, President. Good morning. The proposed law, on a popular legislative initiative, of measures to guarantee energy as a public service and against energy poverty, was introduced in the past legislation in the Register of Parliament on 19 May 2015, with registration number 37326. It contains the articulated text and an exposition of motives for this initiative, as well as the reasons for its processing. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 22 June 2015, admitted this initiative, declared its commission to promote it and agreed to notify this agreement to the Galician Election Board, for the purposes laid down in Articles 7 and 8 of Law 1/1988 of 19 January, regulating popular legislative initiatives before the Galician Parliament. The plenary session of Parliament took into consideration at the meeting on January 26, 2016, following the presentation and defense by Mr. Carlos Fernando Branco Parga, appointed by the commission to promote these purposes. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 15 November 2016, agreed to entrust the Bureau of Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism with the management of the processing of this proposal for a popular legislative initiative law and to leave pending the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments to the articulate. After the processing of various documentation and after the completion of the appearances of several experts in Commission 6th, the Bureau, at its meeting on 19 September 2017, agreed to the opening of the deadline for submitting amendments to the articulated, which, after their extensions, qualified by the Commission Bureau on 30 October 2017, were published in the Official Bulletin of the Galician Parliament No. 203, of 31 October 2017, with the following detail: amendments to the articulated: a total of 54. In document 19482 of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, 2 amendments; in document 19484 of the Galician Socialist Group, 17 amendments; in document 19485 of the En Marea Parliamentary Group, 23 amendments; and in document 19488 of the Galician People's Group, 12 amendments. For its part, the Ponency designated in Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism of 3 November 2017 is composed of the following speakers: For the People's Parliamentary Group, Marta Nóvoa Iglesias as holder and don Moisés Blanco Paradelo as alternate; for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Fr Francisco Casal Vidal as holder and Fr Juan José Merlo Lorenzo as alternate; for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Don Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez as holder and Don Noela Blanco Rodríguez as alternate; for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Don Noa Presas Bergantiños as holder and don María Monserrat Prado Cores as alternate. He held his constitutive session on November 3, 2017, with the assistance of the keynote speakers: Mrs. Presas Bergantinos, Mr. Losada Álvarez, Mr. Casal Vidal and Mrs. Novoa Iglesias. At the following meetings, the Pôncia studied the whole of this bill, as well as the amendments to the articulate presented, in the search for the approximation of the different positions. Finally, at the last meeting, which took place on 15 November, Parliament prepared its report. Subsequently, the 6th Commission, at its meeting on 23 November 2017, adopted its ruling, with 7 votes in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions, incorporating in the bill, in addition to a technical amendment, a total of three amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, two of which were negotiated. Following the withdrawal of two amendments from the En Marea Parliamentary Group, the remaining amendments rejected in this plenary are maintained: from the En Marea Parliamentary Group, 21, from the Socialists Parliamentary Group, 13; and from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, 2. Finally, it emerges that the bill consists, in addition to its explanatory statement, of a preliminary title and two titles, developed in 16 articles: the preliminary title establishes the object of the law, the scope and general principles; Title I is dedicated to energy saving and efficiency; and Title II covers the guarantee of accessibility to energy. The final part is incorporated into an additional provision, a derogation and two finals; one of which establishes the entry into force of this law, if applicable, January 1, 2018. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of the Proposal for a Law, of a popular legislative initiative, of measures to ensure energy as a public service and against energy poverty.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. The role of the parliamentary groups in setting the position on the dictatorship and, if so, in defending the amendments maintained. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, today we conclude a legislative process that began on its day thanks to the proposal, on a popular legislative initiative, of measures to guarantee energy as a public service and against energy poverty. A long call for urgent social and political necessity yesterday and today, before which there are only two options: to resign with status quo or to be ambitious and above all to have political responsibility. In the name of the Galician Nationalist Block, first of all, allow me to greet our guests and guests, and give the most sincere thanks to the Galician Inter-union Confederation and its commission promoter for having brought forward the proposal that the People's Party is about to put together today. Thank you for the proposal and also for the tireless work in your socialization and for bringing to this House the debate of an alternative that would be an improvement for our economy and for the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] Guests, ladies and gentlemen, today it is necessary to exercise a memory exercise on the trajectory of what this ILP was. It's important to remember that he's got a strong footing, with support and irrefutable social and political legitimacy. It was endorsed by more than 17,000 conflicting signatures, by more than 50 municipalities — including six of the seven cities of Greece — and also by three of the four deputies. It's an initiative that didn't remain in the offices, which opened a deep social debate, a debate that came to this House to be legislate almost two years ago. In January 2016 — let us remember — it was taken into consideration unanimously, with the positive vote of all groups for more than a dozen concrete proposals; among them, the defense of a Greek electric tariff, but not only. Two years later, the People's Party won't keep one, not one!, completely empty its contents. And the result will be that neither electricity tariff nor measures for energy to be conceived as a public good, nor ambitious measures against energy poverty. They turn the law into a mere statement of intent on energy efficiency that has no credibility. You don't have any credibility because it coincides in time with the budget debate in this House and yourself, which makes this an energy efficiency plan, cutting 38% of those matches. So you're interested in energy efficiency as little as in the German Government, this bill, because there wasn't a single member here to see what his debate was like. And we wondered, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if they hadn't planned to approve a single of the many proposals that collected the initial text, why did they take it into consideration? Well, I'll tell you, for good reason. This debate was out there, it was on the street and it was uncomfortable to vote against such a question. So the People's Party decided to do its cooling tactic — as with so many other things — to vote favourably and then dilate it as long as possible. And I insist on dilating it as much as possible, because if not, why did we take two years to reach this end point? For the "predation law," for example -- for comparison -- for such a complex law that changes more than ten previous laws, in less than two months it was all ready. And yet this law that we are debating today — and you know that we have had the trouble to prove it — is the popular legislative initiative in the history of the Greek Parliament that took place later, throughout history! Instead of moving forward in speed, we're going slower and slower. And this was because this was the chronicle of a death announced and planned by you. And the serious one, the truly serious one, is not that they take this Parliament for granted anymore, but that Galicia now loses many opportunities with this transformation. They lose a lot of opportunities for the Greeks and the Greeks because of their irresponsibility. Because you once again renounce the exercise of the German government, the exercise of the part of its powers and the action to make energy a public service and not an element of speculation at the service of three great energy giants, who also have their tax office outside our country. They give up once again putting the benefits to the service of society, both of economic dynamisation and of the social ransom, simply not to disturb Madrid. And in these two years, they have increased the reasons why we approve this proposal in its original sense. We've seen, for example, how their wind failure has caused the public to lose more than 3 million euros, which we will pay all the Greeks and the Greeks. We also saw as companies that travel outside our country tried to speculate directly with our public resources, such as Ferroatlantics. And yet you continue to reject one of the proposals that is reflected here, which is participation by public or mixed company in the energy sector, in order to be able to define the model and also so that the benefits can have an impact on our society. They don't care about the environment either. They have European targets in terms of emission reduction by 2020, and you don't care about them, they haven't done the least to pick up the proposals they bet on diversifying energy sources. By forgetting, until they forget that Galicia doesn't have mines, but it has mining comarcas, it has mining comarcas in the process of reconversion. And with you, once again, Galicia has been out of the coal plan, and they also give up, by the vote that will take place today, to which Galicia's inclusion in this plan is claimed. Once again, they won't bother Madrid. And also another fundamental issue, in addition to the Greek electricity tariff, which collects this proposal and which is currently in full need — which we claim and support — is a stable industrial tariff. The great industry of this country, ladies and gentlemen, has been in ruins for the last few months, again with the sword of Damocles of the European Union on its backs. This European Union, sooner or later, will force changes, they are perfectly conscious. And I don't know if you know what happened in Venice when in 2013 they had to return similar help. You can imagine the name of Alcoa will ring, right? So Alcoa in Venice had to close. And since the BNG, we don't want Alcoa, or any big company in our country, to be shut down for decisions other than our land. And, therefore, we bet that this proposal is approved with its original text and we bet on a stable industrial tariff. And also another question that is fundamental, and that's one of the cornerstones that was most known for this proposal, is our bet, that we keep no fissures or political balance, for a Greek electric tariff. Because we're not only concerned about industry, we're not only concerned about big industry, we're concerned about people and small and medium-sized businesses. [[Applause]] That is why we stand up for this proposal. Look, it was a dictatorship, without passing through any kind of democratic government, who decided our country's design as an energy producer. In democracy too, there have been very serious acts by which people have been thrown out of their homes, badly paid and deceived, to build great coronations in our valleys; still only twenty-five years ago. We have the environmental impact, we have the unquestionable social impact. And what do we have in return? Absolutely nothing, we don't have a single benefit for our condition. And that, ladies and gentlemen, nationalists don't seem, at all, fair; the more we are aware that we are surplus producers. And we are solidarity, of course we are solidarity and solidarity. We pay, for example, by invoice, our solidarity with extra-pensular costs, indeed. But, quoting someone you'll meet, I think, in the People's Party -- although it's not very clear lately, I don't know if they sound like Mr. Rajoy -- well, Mr. Rajoy had a moment of clarity a few years ago in an interview and he pronounced the phrase that one thing is being solidarity and another thing is being it in exchange for nothing. So do a bit of a case to your mentor, Mr. Rajoy, and approve this proposal. Because this country deserves, without any doubt, in this context of social emergency, that these benefits will return to our country. And how? Well very simple: starting from a political negotiation that leads us to a reduction, with the proposal of 30%, in the fees. You know perfectly well that the costs of the electrical system are that fixed part that we all pay on our bill. A few weeks ago, the state had just frozen them. And why did you do that for technical matters? No, by political criteria and by references. I could choose to lower them to offset the rise in the price of light by drought and not by political criteria. So, for once in the history of this government, we ask them from the BNG to put political criteria on the table that, instead of harming this country, benefit us and help all the Greeks and Greeks. [[Applause]] The proposal is quite simple and, far from the technical debate to which they have tried to lead us, it is purely political, negotiation and not submission to the Spanish State. And every day we have more reasons to support it, economic reasons. Because we're worried, for example, about relocation, and over 300 companies in the last decade had marched north of Portugal. We're also concerned about the loss of gallugut of our business fabric. Galicia is a pioneer, it is the milk-producing capital in the Spanish State. But of the total produced in this country, 80% is marketed and transformed by companies that have their headquarters outside the country. A Greek electric tariff would allow us not only to be competitive but also to engage and attract companies to our economic fabric and prevent it from happening — as it happens now — that they migrate the benefits of enriching other areas. In this context of globalization, of wild capitalism, it is an absolute irresponsibility not to want to use our resources and our potential in our favor and resign itself to be a mere colony for others to come to exploit our resources. That, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is to become part of the problem and not part of the solution. And, let's not be mistaken, there are two debates that sometimes try to separate and which are the two sides of the same coin: the energy model, that Welsh electric tariff and the other issues we've commented on, and the social model and how to rescue people from this country who are going through the worst. The basic starting point would be to approve that Welsh electric tariff, because it would help many people and small and medium-sized enterprises, not just those most extreme and severe cases. But they also dilapidate other energy poverty proposals that are presented. And they do that in a country where a quarter of the population, more than 700,000 people, are at risk of social exclusion. If these people aren't an argument to sit down, knock on the table and negotiate with the state, you'll tell me what it is. I imagine you would put the heat in your house yesterday — half of the country was under zero. But, in the meantime, there are over 400,000 people in our country who are not able to have their temperature at home at an appropriate level. So what we propose are alternatives, going to an alternative model also in the fight against energy poverty and not putting more patches, like an electric ticket that doesn't reach even 10% of the population, or a social bonus from the state, which we will talk more about in the replica, which is absolutely insufficient and which, in addition, is already back in the courts. This is a possible way. It depends only on the political will to put our wealth into our service. And there are examples, BNG has already proved it. I also want to greet our comrades, Manolo Requesho and Bethlehem Chao, mayor and mayor of the Town Hall of Walls. You are the example of what you want is power, that great things can be done politically. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, tell me that my colleagues heard many times that you couldn't, that you couldn't. But, with tenacity, they and they achieved it, they passed an order, absolutely pioneer in the Spanish State and also outside our borders, to put the wealth generated by the production of natural resources exploited in the Town Hall of Walls to the service of the neighbours and neighbours. A small council of windmills made an absolutely transforming regulation with three objectives: to compensate for the environmental impact, to promote the settlement of neighborhoods and to eradicate energy poverty, and to safeguard the health of its population. What was a dream became a reality today. And we are asking the political forces today to rectify and support the initial text of the popular legislative initiative, because it would be the starting point for the realities of transformative progress in the economy and also in the social — as did the Wall Council — to spread throughout the country. Against the political will in a positive way, unfortunately, we have the reply of the People's Party, which for two years has not only delayed this process but has completely transformed it, and under the excuse — in which we will sink into the replica — that they are absolutely incoherent. In conclusion, we must remember that we have already started from an initiative that had two fundamental goals that are now being abandoned: to conceive energy as a public service and to fight energy poverty, understanding that access to energy is a right, it is not a privilege or simply an economic issue. Two years later, the People's Party takes off the mask, and the coincidence is that today is December 4th. That's why we also want to send from the BNG a message of encouragement to both the promotional commission and to all the municipalities, deputies, associations and other groups that have deepened this initiative and promoted it. This is a disappointing step, but it's not, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u34	...—I have already finished, the final point of this question. Many years ago, on December 4th, our country went out to the streets to protest against a state-of-the-art negotiation that Galicia was abandoning. Today we are at the door of this Parliament workers and workers who are defending this proposal. This is not the point and end. Yesterday, like today, we have a living, non-conformist people who will not allow the complicities of the People's Party with the economic sectors to prevent us at some point from developing a political alternative to the alternative design of these energy and social policies and writing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u36	...a different sheet in our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the present... I want to begin by greeting the promoters of this popular legislative initiative. With some of them I've already discussed in this Parliament and therefore welcome again, even on a geographically higher scale, spatially. The advantage is that today always allows, in these debates related to the policies of the People's Party, to start with a certain perplexity some questions. The last Council of Ministers of the Government of Spain approved the national security strategy. It's a very interesting subject, without any doubt, in these times of uncertainty, and in this strategy there are some relevant issues, two, one of them very directly related to the subject that deals with us -- I put the sale before the wound by tactical issues -- which is the topic of climate change. I believe that energy efficiency must undoubtedly play a relevant role there in controlling energy consumption and therefore production; I am still surprised at the turning of the People's Party. I will remind you again — I know that the Members and Members of the People's Party do not like it very much — that Rajoy's cousin who was not long ago questioned the same thing. It's true that... Home!, Mr. Rajoy surprises us not only with family relations, but also with the name of the streets in which he lived in Pontevedra, because he didn't know who Salvador Moreno was, a Frankish admiral who bombed Xixon and bombed the civilian population that was leaving Malaga east to reach the French border. These conjunctural ignorances that adorn the political trajectory of some leaders of the People's Party put us at the heart of what this country's political debate is because, we were surprised, in the national security strategy, one of the fundamental points is also the fight against cybersecurity and fake news. We are also surprised: it is the Minister of Defence, Mrs. Cospedal, that of the "deferred dismissal of the Bárcenas", who will fight against the false news that appears in cyberspace in relation to national security. [[Applause]] So, this policy of spooky health, which is what we are witnessing in the field, of course, state and in many cases also in the autonomic field, we have an example here. We have an example of a popular legislative initiative that chronologically presents some peculiarities. As Mrs President of Commission 6th, thirty months of processing, two and a half years of processing. I know that this gave us time to think deeply, to set a sign of appearances. With a good part of them I agreed — I mean, I don't say it, in this case, in a pejorative or negative sense — but, of course, it allows me also to compare the chronological dynamics of this Parliament with the few 70 days that it took to process the bill of the People's Party in relation to industrial implementation. I think they're two subjects, of course, very relevant to this autonomous community, either one of them; thirty months and seventy-two days, it seems to me to be on the calendar. So I think this, plus the fake news, plus Salvador Moreno -- I know it sounds a little impressive, probably; I think it has to be a little impressive -- they mark exactly the political dynamics, unfortunately, of this country. There is a lack of ambition about the popular legislative initiative, with which, with some of the issues being raised, the Socialist Group obviously did not agree, and so we said and so we kept it in our amendments. The lack of ambition was such that even amendments to the explanatory statement were rejected, absolutely amended, of course — among other things — "innoque" in legal terms, but even amendments of pure economic rationality from the perspective of energy. In any case, of course, I would like — and I would like to welcome the economic, employment and industry advisor — to know what was the reason for this non-acceptance of amendments. And then, without any doubt, there is an absolute non-defence of the opposition parliamentary groups, because the Socialist Group and the rest of the groups had no chance to amend in any case, or to compromise, on the amendments tabled by the People's Party, which is true that, recognizing the importance of energy efficiency — I insist that I am not questioning at all this issue — if we introduced a popular legislative initiative that did not touch this issue; therefore, we had no possibility of amending, nuding or realising some of the..., some, none of the proposals. So, I think it's not just the song, it's not just the time, it's not only the dynamic, it's the how; it's the way in this preservation of political rights that characterizes Parliament. What are we really talking about, beyond the legitimately nationalist dimension, of a nationalist-class union in this proposal? Yeah, yeah. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, they know perfectly well what we're talking about; they know. Yes, yes, but I'll explain or try to explain a little. Look, we're talking about a concept called excessive net profit, published in an academic article that for the period 2008-2015 considers how much "more" — between quotes — have won the big Spanish electricity companies in relation to the so-called big six, the six largest British electricity, which have a very Spanish-like energy mix; that's right, they have a market of 64 million consumers with a higher income. Well, the net excessive profit of the three major Spanish electricians was in these seven years of EUR 11,000 million in relation to British profit rates. In this same period, the social aid to electricity supply in Spain was 1,300 million euros; that is, barely 12%. That's what we're talking about, or that's what we think it's essential to talk about from the Socialist Group, because the rest of the Council of Galicia is taking the usual delay. It is EU Directives 72/2009 and 73/2009 that talk about energy efficiency. So, exactly as in the issue of energy poverty, five years later, i.e. the usual delay in the political decisions of the Galician Union on these issues. I'll talk soon enough about energy efficiency too, but I want to focus on what was initially on the ILP, which was social bond or energy poverty. The reports themselves, the report of the Galician Union presented at the request of the Commission and the report of Parliament's lawyers, speak of the prospect of social welfare and of having to compete with the autonomous competences of social assistance — in the case of the report of the Union on pages 7 and 14; I say that if there is any bibliographic interest — this type of policy. And, unfortunately, the Government of Greece, in a surprising way — I insist — continues to keep these benefits in the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry. I understand that I am an interesting marketing exercise, Mr. Counsellor, in politics this power point, which comes to you very well, but, of course, they do not optimize what are scarce resources for the social policies of this autonomous community, which are no longer particularly dazzling, let us say. Energy poverty is directly related to the rates of electricity. And I want to remember a sequence of the political-technical discourse of the People's Party since it arrived in government in 2009 in Galicia and in 2011 in Spain. In general terms, rates are higher in Spain than in Europe as a whole, than in most European countries, of course, in all continental countries, and we leave the islands apart. They remember when the renewables were the culprits of that high price of electricity. They remember then how the paron to the renewables was responsible for the high energy prices. They remember how the closure of the coal plants was now the culprit of the high energy prices. And they also remember how drought, which basically affects renewable energy, which is hydroelectric, is still guilty of these high prices as well. And even the interconnection with France, which in theory was made to obtain economies of scale, at a certain point I also assumed, by a technical paron of French nuclear, an increase in the price of energy in Spain. Listen, they didn't speak once and for all, in these dozens of political speeches, about where was the responsibility for the price of energy in Spain, about that net excessive profit of companies, about which I used to tell them what I wanted to talk about, and which seems to surprise you a little bit. The energy market, the definition of the electric tariff — and who has been in the commission and has attended the appearances clearly — is a sort of completely inextricable geroglyphic that, without any doubt, almost no one understands. I think you understand it fundamentally Unesa. And after these absolutely contradictory political speeches, it is obvious that the Government understands or does not understand it or wants to deceive citizens, because it is certainly not possible for the person responsible to be the entire battery of energy mix possible up or down; that is, all possible statistical combinations, except the results accounts of the electrical companies, which, I repeat, are the highest in Europe. On Friday Brussels itself blocks the Spanish Government's proposal to prevent the National Markets Commission and Competition from setting the price of light. Well, we will see exactly what ends this issue, but everything seems to indicate once again that it is political inferences in which it should be an absolutely technical criterion. And the result we know: the price of electricity is not only higher in Spain, it rises higher in Spain than in the European Union. In this case it is now by drought, but, I insist, before it was by the coal, by the closure of Garoña, by the renewables and by the paron of the renewables; and, to say, all possible combinations. Therefore, in this context of absolute deception, of absolute political fiction, by saying so in some way, we find ourselves exactly with a popular legislative initiative clearly deverted. We agree with the need to legislate on energy efficiency. We believe that the amendments tabled by the People's Party are weak as regards budgetary commitments and as for important compensation mechanisms, especially for those lower incomes, which are the ones that have the greatest difficulty in improving the energy efficiency of their homes, and which, in addition, are usually found in more energetically inefficient homes. But nothing is said on this side of the dimension of social policy, also surprisingly. And since we didn't have the possibility to amend this part, because it was presented as amendments by the People's Party itself, because it actually stays out. In the case of the Welsh electric tariff, we, of course, could not present amendments on energy efficiency in the ILP presented by the promoters, because there was no heading on energy efficiency. It's not hard to understand, I think. Maybe it's hard to understand, but I think it's quite easy — and maybe it's a question of overqualification. We amended a text in which energy efficiency did not appear; therefore, we could not amend energy efficiency. In the case of the Greek electricity tariff, we do not agree, indeed; we are more in favour of whether it is via taxation or via taxation of a fundamental ecological nature to which these costs added to Galicia in energy production are corrected, and we are also in favour of policy acting and effectively avoiding that these taxes can be transferred to consumer tariffs. We are now seeing how there are different legal interpretations, and we are seeing as the political opposition of the German Government, although it has expressed its opposition to this transfer, because it has not just acted more forcefully...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u39	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u40	...—I've finished—; in our opinion I should. So on the subject of electricity tariff, we believe — and I know that it always sounds like a delaying process — that it would be necessary to see how it could go... Of course, most of the visitors said it wasn't, at this moment and with this law, possible to do it. But I also say, and I am not a nationalist, that laws change in parliaments; that is, in parliaments and with most, but laws can change — that's the theme of political law of any basic manual. Therefore, there is no categorical Kantian imperative or the tables of the law of Moses. They can change those and many others. Even the Constitution, Mr Bará, even the Constitution. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I insist that I believe there are no sacred texts, none, not even some literary pieces. As for universal basic income, which I think has to be the central element of social policy, is exactly where energy poverty issues should be placed. And, unfortunately, they don't sit there, I insist, they're placed in a council that has in their budgets an absolutely ambitious goal of covering 10% of the homes that have no income, I'm no longer saying homes in economic difficulties, etc., but homes that have no income, and unfortunately, in addition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u41	Thank you, Mr. Losada, your time is up. Thank you very much. Your time is up. That's it. Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u42	Good morning, everyone. We're going to talk today about one of the greatest injustices and a violation of the rights that are taking place in our country: energy poverty, the result of the growing inequality and the unacceptable conjugation of public authorities in Spain with the electric oligopolie. Energy poverty is undoubtedly associated with poverty in general, but there are, however, reasons for emphasis on this concept of poverty, and the main thing is that in Galicia energy poverty has grown much more than poverty in general in recent years. The data we have is that between 2007 and 2013 households in general poverty multiplied by two in Galicia, while households in energy poverty multiplied by three, reaching 10% in 2014. In any case, the latter percentages are set for households with an income available not above the income of insertion, as we know, 531 euros — I think they are — after paying the cost of living. But the most extensive international legislation is that a home is considered to be in energy poverty when it has to spend more than 10% of its net income to pay the necessary energy in homes, after the cost of housing, after taking out the rent or mortgage. If we apply this international approach recognised by all international institutions that affect these types of situations, we would reach that 20 per cent of the Greek homes, more than 600,000 people, would be in Galicia now in energy poverty. Another of the main reasons for energy poverty is the increase in electricity bill, 76% in the crisis period, when in many other European countries the increase has not passed by 5%, as is reasonable. Consumption's down. When consumption goes down, prices go down in almost every market. Well, no, Spain has increased by 76%, while family income has continued to decline. All the electricity legislation of the last 20 years has been on the line to protect this real scam, which is the price of electricity in Spain, the most expensive in Europe before taxes. After taxes, we're the fourth, but electricity taxes, although people don't know, in countries like Denmark and others, are much higher. In Spain, the share of taxes on the receipt of light is around 20%, and in Denmark, for example, reaches 60% of the total price. But what's the matter? That the cost of production and access is much lower than in Spain. The setting of the production price in Spain is dark and intolerable; only by removing the nuclear and hydraulic production part of the pool that determines daily the cost of kilowatt/hour, as is done in virtually all of Europe, could a drop of these costs by about 20%. I'm what everyone knows -- and sometimes they don't know why -- like the so-called fallen benefits from the sky for electricity; that is to say, to be able to charge the kilowatts that ever cost anything or cost about 10 or 12 euros megavattio/hour, as it happens in nuclear, to 60 or 70 euros, as it is going on these days, because of this invention of the day-to-day pool that is being done in Spain, when this is not being done practically anywhere. On the other hand, in the rest of Europe there is much more real competition from marketers who press producers to lower prices at reasonable profit levels, as the Socialist spokesman has already said. But this allowed vertical integration of production, distribution and marketing. They tell us they are different companies: Gas Natural Fenosa production, Gas Natural Fenosa Distribution, Gas Natural Fenosa Marketing. Obviously, they are different companies. This, of course, prevents real competition, which is not happening, for example, in Germany. The pressure of marketers, including municipal and regional, is too strong for producers to have to really reflect the real cost of production at the price. Also in this country and in the rest of Spain, self-consumption is attacked, which would leave a lot of energy to the daily market and take it down to prices. If you hadn't entered the daily market so much energy — at this point around 80% of the energy we consume every day — then prices, of course — because the power offered would remain the same and consumption would be lower — would go down. But this is not allowed. The Government of the People's Party, as we all know, resolutely combats self-consumption, so as not to put at risk the power of large companies to set totally disproportionate prices that fatten their results accounts, spoil families and make our industry less competitive. And we're not talking about the regular part anymore. I'd rather call it a regulated part because many people call it beaches, but most of the costs reflected in the regulated part have nothing to do with access fees, they have nothing to do with transport, which is a very small cost, have nothing to do with distribution or with other costs actually applicable to access to energy. Most are really another type of tax, like, for example, the invention of transition to competition; an invention to give billions of euros to electricity with the concept that competition — the competition that I was talking about before — would lower the prices that were paid for production. The reality was the opposite. The prices of production continued to rise unmeasuredly and yet billions were paid to electricity for the cost of translation to competition. Then there is the valuation of the distribution costs. If they were actually audited independently, they would be extremely important savings. In our estimates, in the calculations that we're doing, we calculated that we could go down on 40%, over 3,000 million euros a year, especially in countries like Galicia, where a very important part of the mid-voltage distribution network has already been paid by all the Greeks in the Mega Plan that developed in the 1990s and 2,000. This was really important savings, so In Marea defends public control of the distribution, just like transport. This would open up the possibility, for example, as is done in Germany, that distributors would be regional levels, or even comarcas or locals; that would indeed open the possibility of differentiated rates. The current situation in the Spanish State would not open up the possibility of differentiated tariffs, according to a very taxing regulation of the European Union. Before that, we should take control, as with transport, which doesn't mean expropriation; it's public control of the management of distributors. After that, we continue with gifts, which we all, in the end, pay in our receipt. Against these billions and billions, which if we add up to the order of EUR 15 billion a year that is given to the electricians, there is the cigarette industry to fight energy poverty, with an estimate that in the decree of the social bond it is about EUR 300 million a year and that in Galicia they could add, with which the People's Party lords are presenting to us, just over EUR 300 million. Energy poverty, in addition, has enormous health consequences: 7,000 premature deaths are estimated in Galicia due to problems of energy poverty, and have a very serious impact on social and educational issues. Young people and adolescents who live in homes with energy poverty have much stronger barriers in order to develop in the educational field, and it is demonstrated — and many teachers say so — that they have an impact on the performance of these students who live in this kind of home. Energy poverty, while poverty, is not just a social or economic dysfunction, it is mainly an ethical problem that attacks the dignity of every human being. All of this also makes us reflect on the contradiction of reality with what is written in the Spanish Constitution. For example, Article 45 states that public authorities will ensure the rational use of all natural resources in order to protect and improve the quality of life and to defend and restore the environment. It also states in Article 51 that public authorities will ensure consumer and user protection by protecting safety, health and legitimate economic interests of consumers and users. So all the liberalizing reforms of successive laws in the electricity sector explicitly eliminated the concept of electricity supply as a public service. All of this, in our view, goes against these two constitutional requirements, and nobody says anything. And let us no longer tell the multitude of European directives that establish the need to protect vulnerable customers and how electricity companies have to have funds available to combat energy poverty. There are four or five directives that explicitly mark it; with which, the State has the right to mark all these processes. The People's Group leaves out of the law all interventions on energy poverty, it really destroys the whole law. This is no longer a law of energy poverty, it's a law of theoretical utterances on energy efficiency, without realising anything, without realising for who, how much money or how much help would be. Indeed, it is a waste of good intentions, without realising at all; that is, it will not have budgetary concretion, nor will it be known that homes will truly have the right to everything that would be the measures that are stated, I say, as a toast to the sun, within the amendments with which the People's Party defeats the whole ILP. That is why, since Marea, we have maintained 21 amendments that basically tend to be true both in people and in homes who would have the right to the social bond — which would be complemented in Galicia — and in the amount of money. And so we thought that we would have to expand the homes that have the right to that bond, because, according to the current proposal, which is the only point the People's Party would keep in what remains of this law, would only reach 5% of the homes that we spoke about before; that is, those that are in extreme situations of vulnerability and social exclusion, leaving out the remaining 95%. Then, we want to make sure that in the available income the income is after the payments of the housing rental costs. And to work out the procedures to access the aid, too, because the reality is that it was nice to hear the Minister of Industry say that a majority of the people who have the right to the social bond wouldn't even know that there was or would not even be able to develop the procedures in order to achieve it. This is intolerable, if decrees are passed, if laws are passed, giving the fact that most of the citizenship involved will not access them. Another issue that led us to vote against the social bond is the ridiculous limit of permissible consumption. As you know, the limit that is set, for example, for a person who lives alone in a home — like most people who can access these aids, who would be pensioners, pensioners who live alone in a Welsh home -- is 1,200 kilowatts per hour. So if you make an idea -- and if you don't, when you get home, look at your electricity and gas receipts and look at how much you consume a month, both in electricity and gas in kilowatts/hours -- these 1,200 kilowatts/hour would amount to the following: this lady could plug a half-power stove -- 1,000 watts, 1 kilowatts -- for between 6 and 8 hours a day, five months of winter, November to March. With that half-hour-power stove in a single room in his home, it would already run out of 1,200 kilowatts per hour. What does that involve? The lady's going to have to shower in cold water, she's going to have to light up with candles, she won't have energy to be able to heat up the food, etc.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u43	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u44	That is why we reject this proposal of the decree and therefore we think that the Government of Greece, in exercising its powers of autonomy, of intervention in the energy sector, should complement this whole decree, which really does not cover — I say — 95% of the population, which really has energy poverty, and we would have the real and budgetary possibility to complete it and so that we can actually speak in Galicia that the Government of Greece and all Parliament really fight against energy poverty, and not how this ILP will remain, which can no longer be called ILP, of energy poverty, because it is a mere statement of intentions to talk about energy efficiency is a very interesting thing without budgeting, without defining the people who can... That's why I suggested that you reconsider the subject and that, given that this ILP will no longer have the chance to develop itself, In Marea will immediately present a real law of energy poverty in which you and all groups will have the possibility of adopting for Galicia a law of energy poverty that really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u46	...to meet the needs of the most vulnerable people. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u47	Thank you, Mr. Casal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u48	Thank you, President. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the IGC for bringing this debate to the Welsh House and, of course, to point out that it was through a popular legislative initiative, endorsed by nearly 18,000 firms. For the People's Group it is vital to comply with Greek citizenship, so we propose a law that responds to the main challenge that was made at the beginning of its processing: take a step forward and respond to the energy needs of the most needy consumers. I'm going to begin my intervention by remembering above how the procedure of this law was. We have spent almost all this year with industry committees dedicated to this initiative, so I have to say that it has not been hidden in a drawer, as both the law advocates and the opposition Members show. But, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative initiative has entered Parliament, and what all the groups voted unanimously has been admitted to this procedure. Since then it has become a law of Parliament and therefore all groups have the same right to make changes, mainly in the search for a guarantee text and which — they will agree with me — benefits most of the Greek consumers. And that's why the amendments of the People's Group to the original initiative retain three fundamental principles: legality, the defence of the interests of the Greeks and realism. [[Applause]] By putting them in the background, the original initiative was made up of two chapters: the first, focused on energy policy actions; and the second, on measures to eradicate energy poverty. The procedure of this law has so far been with the attendance of nine energy experts, and his promoter, Mr. Branco Parga, representative of the IGC and former Member of the Galego Nationalist Block. The purpose of these interventions was to clarify technical and fundamental aspects that could be used to constitute an effective legislative text, and of course they intended to be able to implement themselves with legal guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group has listened and taken into account what most experts have said. They all agreed that much of the first chapter, concerning the Greek tariff, was not framed in the competences of our community. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, we don't despise the experts' opinion, that all groups approach, and, when 90% agree, it will be because they're probably right. Nor is it a correct theory to say, gentlemen of the BNG and the CIG, that as the Chamber's Juridical Services admitted to ILP the procedure, for all its content is constitutional. No, ladies, it's not true. Parliament's lawyers clearly explain, in the report issued in February 2017, that electricity regulation is the responsibility of the State and set out among their conclusions that the Autonomous Community is responsible for the legislative development and enforcement of state legislation on energy. Ladies and gentlemen, here is the conclusion — you can see it — As I said earlier, this law consists of a second part devoted to energy poverty, of which it does have competence in the Autonomous Community, so it is logical that the procedure should be allowed. [[Mr. Novoa Iglesias shows a document.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the argument that we can indeed legislate from the Greek Parliament with guarantees of enforcement a law on the Greek tariff is not true. But leaving aside the issue of legality, the alleged Greek fare, gentlemen of the BNG, does not defend the Greek interests. Look, I'm going to briefly summarize our community's balance of approaches to the electrical system. They will know that the main activities for the supply of electricity are generation, which consists of energy production; transport, whose purpose is to transmit electricity through the transport network; distribution, which channels electricity from transport networks to consumption points; and marketing, developed by the various energy companies that access different transport or distribution networks, and which are responsible for selling electricity to consumers. Generation and marketing are liberalized activities, and distribution and transport are regulated. As you will know, Galicia is a power in renewable energy, in particular, the second in providing greater amount of renewable energy to the energy mix of all Spain, just behind Castela-León. And the generation of renewable energy in Galicia has a cost of approximately EUR 373 million for the electricity sector. The transport network in our community offers a good quality of service, with few supply interruptions only in the event of extreme weather conditions. Well, this network has a salary of approximately EUR 94.6 million. The distribution network in Galicia is indeed very complex. Galicia has a territory of nearly 30,000 square kilometers, with 314 municipalities and more than 30,000 individual population entities, which are almost 49% of all Spain. This combines a complex orography that causes distribution infrastructures to be about 22% more expensive than elsewhere in Spain. Another economic fact, ladies and gentlemen: the whole pay to distribution companies in Galicia is about EUR 436 million. If we add up the three quantities mentioned, which are the costs of the electricity sector in Galicia, 904 million euros go out. And how much do we pay the Greeks for taxes for electricity? Well, 740 million euros. If the costs are 904 million; 904 minus 740, gentlemen, a positive balance of 164 million euros comes out. Ladies and gentlemen, this has just been explained in the expert committees; they have been briefed by reports from the Galician Council with numbers endorsed by the National Commission on Markets and Competition, but you have not heeded them. In my humble opinion, gentlemen of the BNG, I think you should once and for all put aside the proposal of the German electric separatist tariff. To the Greeks, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't matter; I was supposed to raise your bill, and you know it. [[Applause]] Stop playing with people's sensitivity and sell impossible promises. Since I started this intervention, I have detailed two of the three principles of force not to buy them the kindness of their Greek fare. The first, the lack of legality. Galicia has no competence to frame its tariff in state law, since it clearly invades the State's exclusive powers. The second, ladies and gentlemen, is that it's a bad business for Galicia. Economically it doesn't count, because you'd have to pay 40% more than average for having a separate rate from the rest of the state. And the third, gentlemen, is that they have to go back to reality. So my group has focused its amendments, the energy part of the original ILP, on energy efficiency measures, which are within the competences of the self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, the most common definition of energy efficiency is that it is an efficient use of energy and that seeks to protect the environment by reducing energy intensity and habitually using only what is needed. The CO2 emissions we send to the atmosphere are increasing. For this reason, energy efficiency becomes a way of caring for the ecosystem and encouraging savings. The reason to bet on energy efficiency is that generating and distributing energy is expensive and has a strong impact on the environment. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, energy efficiency will make it easier for all mankind to enjoy dignified and healthy living conditions, bringing out the greatest possible share of energy. In Galicia, as in the rest of Spain, you have to limit the external dependence of primary energy to the maximum. With amendments to this law, therefore, the People's Group aims to promote energy efficiency in all sectors and activities, giving it a fundamental role to new technologies and innovation; to establish mechanisms for cooperation and coordination in promoting energy saving and efficiency among administrations. To achieve this goal, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group proposes that the German Government promote energy saving and efficiency plans aimed at improving the competitiveness of the Italian productive fabric and increasing the comfort and quality of life of our people. The aim of the savings plans will be to establish equipment renewal programmes for others with greater energy efficiency and to be carried out in all sectors of end-users. In the commitment to innovation, ladies and gentlemen, it will also enhance the study of sustainable and more efficient technologies, facilitating the commercial deployment of technologies that are found in the demonstration phase. And since the culture of energy efficiency is global, it's not only the responsibility of administrations, and without the help of all it won't be possible, it also proposes that the Government promote campaigns to raise awareness about the consumption of energy in an intelligent way. They know that the impulse to energy efficiency was a point of their original law; therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I see no logical reason not to support our text. Mr. Losada, it was a point of the original ILP energy efficiency. And you could make proposals on energy efficiency. But for the People's Group, the really important and essential part of this law is Title II, on the guarantee of accessibility to electricity. We cannot see that since the Congress passed the Law on the reformulation of the financing of the social bond, it has changed the scenario to about 250,000 Greek consumers who were welcomed to the social bond. It should be recalled that this bond was approved in Madrid with a broad consensus, supported by the Socialist Group, the Citizens' Group and the People's Group. His colleagues at Podemos, ladies and gentlemen, voted against, yes, gentlemen, and here it was supposed they would do the same, leaving aside thousands of Greeks who would benefit. I couldn't wait for any more of you, for example those who define themselves as ordinary people! Mrs. Presas, you, without representation in Madrid, couldn't stand on the social bond. And here, as you have already shown in the committee, they will vote against... Your Honor, tell the truth, you didn't have a bill. Your proposal is that of a union -- as you well said in your intervention -- nationalist. You, gentlemen of the BNG and the Tide, are not worth a state law that has a broad national parliamentary consensus and has broad social coverage. It was to be expected in the case of a nationalist group, but in one that says no, who wants the unity of Spain, who is led by a nationalist union... the truth is, Mr. Casal, that no one already knows what his ideal is. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Losada, in Madrid, they supported him. I'll ask you to reconsider your position and vote in favour. Otherwise, he'll be profiled and not wet by the people who need him most. You will even know that the president of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities of your party, Mr. Caballero, has come out asking the autonomous communities to immediately put this measure. And don't tell me you're going to contradict him. [[Applause]] Look, I'm going to go on — which I don't have much time left — making a summary for everyone to know what the new social bond consists of. It defines the vulnerable consumer, as well as the requirements that it must meet according to its social characteristics and the level of income. Sets the conditions and procedure to request it. It establishes the mechanism for calculating the bond and the cost of electricity to the consumer. And finally, it regulates the conditions under which power supply can be suspended and the conditions for which consumers cannot be suspended. Therefore, since this was the new normative reality of the State, Galicia — Galicia — I am sorry — had to redefine its existing aid, such as the electric ticket or those that prevent the cut-off of supply, which has served more than 27,000 families in 2009 granting aid for an amount close to 34 million euros. And, therefore, it was necessary to put in place the measure of abolishing 50% of the electricity bill to vulnerable consumers — valued by the social services of the Union as consumers at risk of social exclusion — and their essential supplies and therefore cannot be interrupted by the electricity companies. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, our community will shield by law the payment of 50% of the receipt of light to less-resourced Greek homes. Electricity marketers will be required by law to have telematic platforms for communication with the social services of the Union to, with monthly periodicity, inform the board of the existence of severe vulnerable consumers. Once recognized by social services, these consumers will be charged 50% of the bill and they will never be interrupted by electricity supply. With the reformulation of the bond, autonomous communities were obliged to act. And here in Galicia we are pioneers. The most vulnerable consumers will not be able to stop supply and in addition the Autonomous Community will pay 50% of the invoice. Ladies and gentlemen of En Marea and the PSOE, we cannot take references to other laws, as you have done in your amendments to this ILP; laws that have already been out of date with the reformulation of the social bond. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, the law of the Valencian Community. You'll know that this law has become wet paper, that it has remained in a drawer. The government, of its groups, didn't put it in motion. Even a few days ago they proposed modifying it almost entirely. Nor can we take references to laws that have failed and challenged by the Constitutional Court, Mrs Presas. This time I refer to the Catalan law against energy poverty, annulled by the Constitutional Court for invading state powers. And I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks have trusted us with a vast majority, and this group responds by making policies that are economically effective, responsive to those who need it most and, above all, policies that comply with legality. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u50	As a matter of precedent, since Mr. Losada took out the subject, and since we've been listening to a lot of nonsense around there for several days, I will insist that, indeed, if that street of Pontevedra was changed it was not by a law of historical memory, absolutely insufficient, but by a brave government and by a concelerator like Luis Bará. Yes, I know you've upset them since then and you keep bothering them, but... yes, they're going through it, that little by little we're going to bury frankism. [[Applause]] They're costing us a little, but we're going a little bit. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, on the issue of energy efficiency you have now told Mrs. Novoa, Mr. Losada, that there is indeed a point in the original law. Now, we also refuse to amend it precisely because the foundation for cutting energy efficiency is economic resources and improving, for example, the housing park. And what does the People's Party do? I insist that you cut the budgets by 38%. So, without economic content is wet paper, because not to mention that the process should have a previous and other diagnosis. There's not a single question that introduces about energy efficiency that they couldn't have done either through the Inega or through a decree, Mrs. Novoa. I am also surprised that a Member of En Marea and of Candem says that the current framework would not allow different rates. First, it's fake. There are different rates already. In fact, it was a fellow — the only German who came to the People's Party — who said that there were already different tariffs in the Spanish State, because, indeed, there are gentlemen and ladies of the Spanish State who are already paying a different tariff because of the territorial supplements. In any case, I say, if the law of 2013 had not allowed it, and if Mr. Mariano Rajoy doesn't have a majority in Madrid, because they change the law. [[Applause]] Thirdly, also responding to Mrs. Novoa, what you propose on this initiative is nothing new, it is not to take a saw and close the German electric curtain and do something separatist, as Mrs. Novoa said. It's to lower the rates that already exist, to lower the rates that already exist, as has already been done with the Basque Government by creating a new fee. It would be a lot easier than creating a new toll. [[Applause]] And besides, by step, the Basque question has benefited more industries. In any case, I am also going to advance more questions, indeed, Mrs Novoa, have spent more than a hundred days of legislation until the proceedings of this ILP have been resumed, therefore, yes, parliamentary filibusterism and intent to drown the debate. To sink into other matters too, one of my favorite arguments I have to confess is that this law is unconstitutional. I also tell him that we wouldn't mind contradicting the Constitution if we saved the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks. Because the laws are to change them and the priorities have to be the people of this country. [[Applause]] In any case, I beg you to have a little rigour. First, if it's unconstitutional, why did they vote on it? Secondly, you know I wouldn't have come to this debate. I'm not one, not two, but three favourable reports of legal services. But in any case, you, as a Member, refer to the powers of the Autonomous Community. Galicia has literally shared powers with the State in the field of mining and energy regimes and in the promotion and planning of economic activity. So what you have to do is pick up your phone and negotiate with Madrid. Shared competitions! Man, please, Mrs. Novoa!, if not, why were we the first autonomous community to pass a mine law? [[Applause]] And I also remind you that in social welfare these are Galicia's exclusive competences, another thing is that you don't exercise them. But on the role they are, the question is to have political will. [[Applause]] I am also surprised that the same lady who only talks about the social bond, as if this was the Spanish Parliament and not the German Parliament, says that the BNG has no proposals on energy poverty and that therefore voted favourably for this law. Look, Mrs Novoa, you weren't a Member either, but how many times has this bench voted against BNG proposals to ban electricity cuts by law?Oh, my God! Please! It is centuries late for this debate! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u51	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u52	They come to this debate after people have died in other parts of the state. For moving forward, another question. Since we're talking about the social bond, it's absolutely insufficient. By setting just one example — because it does not give me any more time — in this House any Member or Member, regardless of what he pays at the end of the month, if he has a large family he could have social benefits. Do you think that's the model of redistribution that we should have? Well, of course not. We must therefore exercise our exclusive powers and seek a more ambitious framework. Another question — and I am finished, Mr President — is that no one defends the Greek electricity tariff. Today he didn't say so, but he came to say that only one visitor defended the Greek electric fare. As if you hadn't come to the promoter's commission and a technician proposed by the BNG. The gentleman who came by the BNG defended the Welsh electric fare, eh! Yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, what those appearances demonstrated, in which you took advantage of the goodwill of the political groups to try to lead us to a technical debate, is that this is a political debate. Absolutely all the visitors acknowledged that most of the electricity tariff responds to political decisions. Mr. Dolader said two-thirds. And it was a proposal from you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u54	Or, for example, to put some more example before Mr. Santalices reprimands me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u55	No, no, no, no! Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u56	I'm sorry, it was an expression...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u57	Look at the weather. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u58	Mr. Fernando Blanco of the Socialist Party said he literally does not fit in this legislation, but that Madrid should pay for more light than Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u60	Other visitors said similar questions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u62	It was recognized that there was more than one rate in the state.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u64	And again it became clear that, as in the Catalan question, nationalism is shown...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u66	...is at the service of the social majority and that the Spanish State and the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u67	Your time is over, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u68	...are those who prevent transformative measures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u69	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Novoa, don't worry about my political career or my political relations with the Mayor of Vigo. They are absolutely satisfactory, regardless of the sense of the vote of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in this Parliament. Yeah, yeah, worry about yours, worry about yours, don't worry about mine. [[Murmurs.]] I appreciate the goodwill, really, but you don't have to. With regard to the amendments of the other groups, we are going to vote favourably on the set of amendments of En Marea, although it is true that there are topical issues in which we could disagree, but... yes, I suppose we can vote in favour of the amendments of En Marea, there is no theological or philosophical imperative, right, Counsellor? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. In the case of the Galego Nationalist Block, we are going to vote in favour of the second because we really understand that taxation has to be the fundamental tool of reallocation of costs and benefits in social terms. European Social Democracy has understood this since the beginning of the 20th century, and therefore welcomes this space of consensus. In number one we are going to abstain, because we understand that the public exploitation of hydroelectric jumps is probably not the most appropriate at the moment. It is true that the BNG spokesman in the debate spoke of a mixed exploitation, but it is true that in the text, which is voted on — I appreciate the will of self-amendment — it puts "direct public exploitation". I understand, therefore, how exclusive. We don't understand it that way. I have, in any case, passed these votes to the President. There is a very interesting article by Antón Costas, Professor of Economic Policy in Barcelona, although he is from the parish of Comesaña, in Vigo, which is entitled Competition as a social policy, of competition in the sense of an efficient regulatory framework that actually allows — and that is what we have to talk about when we talk about energy — that the benefits of companies are reasonable and that this is compatible with an energy price that allows families to assume without a high social cost — more in a context of crisis such as the current one — and that it is a factor of competitiveness for the productive fabric of a country. And, of course, where the social situation of families, in fact, does not allow them to achieve those levels of energy supply, it has to be the social policy as a whole that develops this work. I want to make a small quantitative approximation to the two fundamental elements of this bill, as it was left in the report after the amendments of the People's Party. First, on energy efficiency. It has already been said by the spokesperson of the Galician Nationalist Block: a curious way to strengthen this fight against climate change, reducing budgets — I don't know whether these are multi-year or not — by 38% in 2018 compared to 2017. I insist that, as a political support for energy efficiency... Mr. Counsellor, if you want to give me the data. In 2017, more law of July, 733A: 32,966,242; 2018 project: 20,353,872. Three simple rule: 38% descent. Then also — here I already know that there are multi-year issues — on the subject of budgetary execution, between 2010 and 2016, in seven years, they have been left without execution — you are sure that they will be implemented multi-yearly in the future over 100% — 54 million euros. I insist they're official data, all of them from Galicia. My infabulation capacity doesn't go that far. In relation to energy poverty, the bottom count is 1.193.115; predictable aid: 3.233. I repeat: the number of homes with all their members unemployed is 33,000, exactly 10%. And we continue with the budgets, because we are going to debate them in this plenary session in the near future. There is no single reference to energy poverty in the program's objectives. I think it's very good that he doesn't show up, I think the reference to energy poverty doesn't have to appear in a program of his counseling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u71	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u72	In fact, it has to appear as a social policy. And I am going to read to you — and this is over, and I will continue to insist on the question of minimum income and the need to harmonise and organize social policies — the last intervention at the Congress of Members of the Secretary of State of Budgets, Mr Alberto Nadal, brother of the Minister of Energy: "At this very moment, the State allocates some 20 billion to social departures. But, as a result of the crisis, they were covering timely needs until they created a system of aid that does not have internal coherence." Welcome to persist in the mistake. I insist, welcome to persist in the mistake, in an error in which requests for social policy aid are made exclusively through computer systems. I think it's the best metaphor for political disconnection with the socio-economic reality of the country they rule.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u73	Thank you, Mr. Losada. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u74	Mrs. Novoa said we don't know who we're defending. What we do know is who you stand for, that's very clear. And all the legislation that has been developed at the level of the Spanish State, and also in this Parliament, makes it clear to you who defend yourself, where the flows of billions of euros go and where the budget drops go to really combat energy poverty. We can't talk about energy poverty anymore. I think you've already recognized it, this law is no longer a law of energy poverty. This law is simply an enunciation of possible actions within energy efficiency. Actually, energy efficiency is very important, it's much more important to save than to help in spending, and that's what we agree with. But saving energy through actions that tend to energy efficiency in homes means realising, realising who, how much, so that... all of this is not in any of its amendments. It's just literary dissertations that won't specifically affect anyone in this country. And that's what can't be. Of course, they totally reject all the amendments that you have tabled in Marea that go on line precisely to realize a real social bond. That's why our group voted against. He voted against, of course, because they leave out 95% of the people who are really in energy poverty. It seems to you that only people in social exclusion, people who don't have the least economic means to maintain their families, are in energy poverty. And that's not energy poverty, that's something else. That is a question of social exclusion, which is a much more specific issue, and which, I say, within our estimates, affects only 5% of the people who should be entitled to the social bond in Galicia. And the remaining 95% — which many of them are not going to enter, as I have already said, by the limits of power, which never speaks of the People's Party, which does give a social bonus, but why, for the fourth or fifth part of the energy really needed in a home — the rest, to pay at market price. That's not a social bonus. Then there's the topic of access. People who can, for example, get to 40% have to earn under 50% of the marked limits, over 400 euros of income in a family. Can anyone really think that if you exceed 400 euros of income, a family is no longer at risk of energy poverty? Please! That's why all our amendments go on that line. And, of course, we have competences and we have to develop them so that, in fact, that social bond, in which we had to vote against... our proposals do not refer to old-fashioned laws or outdated laws, they are all complementing the social bond. And we've also been very careful to do so so that it might be of immediate application. Because in the system of evaluation and implementation of aid, which is another of the problems, we already know what will happen: that in the end — as is happening right now and as it has already happened in the aids for the electric ticket in Galicia — an immense minority of people can access them, through the procedures, through the obstacles, etc. Then, about Mrs. Presas's comment, we don't say that there can be no differentiated rates. I didn't say that. I said there can be no differential rates for geographic reasons or proximity to production. Mrs Presas, read Directive 2009/714 of the European Union. There are no differences in rates on geographic grounds anywhere. Another thing is, as I've already said — and it seems that you haven't heard my intervention — that if you had really taken control of distribution in Spain and you've done distributors with different criteria to the regions, then there could really be differentiated rates. The point is, let's go to the right paths. Furthermore, our suggestions are that, in reality, deductions and tariff reductions should not be indifferent to society as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u75	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u76	No, they should be concrete and should really aim to tackle both social reasons and problems, as well as environmental reasons and problems. That's totally right. You can do it, you can impostly record environmental damage, you can give benefits via price, via social bond or other that are determined, you can take part in the ownership of companies responsible for negative impacts and externalities, you can allocate some of the profits to compensate those affected by negative externalities... lots of things can be done and in all of them we could come to agreements, because they could really have an immediate application. In short, the People's Party gentlemen withdraw this proposal, withdraw the amendments that totally dissect the ILP. We really work together with a huge problem that the Greek society has, just like the whole Spanish society, like that of energy poverty. In fact, with this law that will come out after the amendments, it's not solved at all this social scourge that is so shameful for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u77	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u78	Thank you again, President. Look, ladies and gentlemen, you say that this group has transformed the original initiative is a real dare. Mr. Losada, 17 amendments from the Socialist Group; Mr. Casal, 23 amendments from the Tides of Podemos. The People's Group, 12 amendments. You have presented in your amendments a completely different law, and in most cases, outdated after the new state legislation. [[Applause]] Mrs. Presas, you presented only two amendments, one of which was also another state jurisdiction. It was supposed to coincide with the text of the ILP, since it was presented by a former member of his group. Look, ladies and gentlemen, think of other energy proposals that are legal, not trying to separate from the rest of Spain. You know it's impossible to frame a Welsh electric tariff in the state law of the electricity sector. The People's Group defends law enforcement, and unlike you, we don't want to be independent from Spain, we prefer to work together to be stronger. So, first reason explained, Your Honor, that it is not legal a Greek fare. Second reason: they can't say that Galicia would have to have a Greek fare because we're a very surplus community. Look, in 2016 we were the fourth most energy-efficient community to the rest of the state, in renewable energy, we're in second place. For this to happen, all Spaniards collaborated by paying in their bills wages to this type of new energies, which have a cost, Your Honor — I suppose they know and told them experts, but they didn't listen to them — But this doesn't happen every day of the year. Basically we export renewable energy — hydraulic and wind —. But in this month, for example, the production of renewable energy has fallen deeply, and you can also say that in almost the whole year. In 2016, the average contribution of renewable energy to the energy mix was 41%. And these weeks, ladies and gentlemen, we haven't reached 20%. The accumulated year goes by 30%, at the moment quite far in relation to last year. I have the grid charts here; if you want to, then you can figure them out and you can check for yourself. Therefore, Galicia does not have as much energy as usual; more importantly, it needs to import primary energy in order to put its power plants to work. In these days we need that transport network, which is not only useful for exporting but also for importing. That network has to be maintained, and all those costs are higher than we pay the Greek electric consumers. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Tide and BNG, third reason to rule out the separatist tariff. Don't ask us to do a bad business for the Greeks. What you're proposing was that we pay 40% more on our bill. It's time for your speech to change. There are no different rates in Spain, and they told him 9 of the 10 experts. They even named them different communities that are not the tub and that benefit themselves, such as Asturias, Cantabria, Navarra or even Andalusia. Tell the truth, gentlemen of the BNG. You, of this law, were interested only in the demagogy of the Greek fare. The nine experts didn't ask them anything about energy poverty; more, they repeated the same question at 9 and it was precisely not related to energy poverty. They don't have any serious proposals, they're only interested in defending their failed theories. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Casal, I would be a little ashamed if, once you presented the amendments to a law, you had to step back the way you did it. They presented 23 amendments, of which 1 and 2 sought to delete the original text of the ILP — i.e. to remove the Welsh tariff and eliminate energy poverty proposals from the text submitted by the IGC. And after a meeting with this union, he arrives at the last meeting of the presentation and says he's going to withdraw them and he's also trying to keep all the others. The others maintained, which defined a new law totally different from the original. So, Mr. Casal, you should explain to us what proposals we listen to. It's impossible for us to take them seriously, but neither we nor all the Greeks. It would result in a totally inconsistent text. And you say they have an energy policy. But what is it? Is it yours or the one that marks the IGC? Look, it turns out, if it's the same as the one of his former fellow blockmates, in defense of a separatist tariff, for they tell you clearly, but they don't try to put a mix of incoherent proposals into a law. Look, it's not about doing the same thing in your group. We already know that some of them are from the Power Tides, some from Podemos, some from Podemos alone, others from Left Unity, some from Anova, and I don't know if I have any left. Not here, Your Honor; a law is a serious thing. What I am sure is that the IGC has managed to mark what Mr. Villares can't do in his group, which is to mark the direction of the vote. This shows, Your Honor, once again, what we might call "political cowardice." [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Losada, to finish, I'm not going to deny that I had the hope that they would finally vote in favour of this law. I told you before, I think it only improves current conditions. I can explain it, because sometimes in politics coherence with people to whom trust is due is not taking place, and it weighs much more the interests of partisans or also maintain cordiality with possible government partners than accepting proposals from other groups that are beneficial to citizens. Look, we were willing to change things not our text. We accept amendments and we deal with others, which I think have managed to improve the law. Your Honor, an abstention is to face the most needy Greeks. I'm sorry, but an abstention is not acting or intervening in the solution of the problem. And I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. The Greeks and the Greeks, thanks to having a majority parliamentary group and a stable government, as of January 1, 2018, will have guaranteed by law that the most needy do not suffer cuts in their electricity supply and that if they are paid 50% of the cost of their bill. It's a shame I'm just going forward with our vows, and the Greeks know it. You and your conscience! For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u80	After this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the legislative texts. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting, firstly, the Ditame issued by Commission 8th, Fisheries and Marisqueo, on the draft law of the ports of Galicia. First of all, we are voting on amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. Voting of the amendments maintained by the G.P. from the Galician Nationalist Block to the Galician Port Bill not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u81	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the amendments maintained by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the Galician Port Bill, not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u82	We are now voting on amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment. We vote. Voting of the amendments maintained by the G.P. From In Marea to the Galician Port Bill, not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u83	And we now vote for the Commission's opinion. We vote. Ditame's vote, drawn up by Commission 8th, Fisheries and Marisqueo, on the draft port law of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 36; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. As a result, this measure is approved and, consequently, it is approved by the Law of ports of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u84	We are now voting on the Ditame issued by Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, on the Proposal for a Law on measures to guarantee energy as a public service and against energy poverty. First of all, we are voting on amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. There is a request to vote separately on the two amendments. We therefore vote first of all on Amendment No 1 to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Galicia. We vote. Amendment No 1 to the G.P. from the Nationalist Block of Wales to the Proposal for a Law of Measures to Guarantee Energy as a Public Service and Against Energy Poverty, not incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 36; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u85	We are now voting on Amendment No 2 to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Amendment No 2 to the G.P. from the Nationalist Block of Wales to the Proposal for a Law of Measures to Guarantee Energy as a Public Service and Against Energy Poverty, not incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u86	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galician Socialists to the Proposal for a Law of Measures to Guarantee Energy as a Public Service and Against Energy Poverty, not incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u87	We are now voting on amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. From Marea to the Proposal for a Law on Measures to Guarantee Energy as a Public Service and Against Energy Poverty, not incorporated into the Commission's ruling. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u88	And we voted for the Commission's ruling. We vote. Ditame vote, drawn up by Commission 6th, Industry, Energy, Trade and Tourism, on the Proposal for a Law on measures to guarantee energy as a public service and against energy poverty. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 36; votes in favour, 20; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. It is therefore approved and, consequently, it is approved by the Law on measures to guarantee energy as a public service and against energy poverty.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u89	Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thirty-six? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was adopted by 36 votes in favour. Open the doors, please. And we continue with the agenda, after these little changes that we have had on the agenda of this whole day. Let's continue with the motions now. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. José Manuel Lago Peñas, on the realization by the Galician Union of the necessary actions to prevent the closure of Conservas Esteiro
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u90	Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the People's Parliamentary Group have been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u91	Mr. Lago has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u92	Good morning. Although it's not usual, I'm going to start my speech by recognizing two errors when I presented the interpellation: the first mistake was to say that there was no real cause for the closure of Conservas Esteiro and the second was to consider that the People's Party had social sensibility. He was confused in both cases. There's a reason to close Calvo Esteiro, and the Calvo Group wants to win more. The Calvo Group, which earns 50 million euros every year, doesn't get enough, wants more. And so you're going to close a company, you're going to close a company, you're going to fire 300 workers for instead of 50 million to earn 54 million euros. There's a reason to close Calvo Esteiro, it's called "business fox." Private benefits, public costs. In order for Calvo to earn 3 million euros more, the main industrial company in our country will be shut down, with little employment, with little industrial development; three hundred people will be put on the street, most of them women; there is a huge social cost. All this to pay for Bolton Group dividends. That's unacceptable for a company that speaks of corporate social responsibility, that speech about companies' commitment to their territory or their country. At Marea we defend these kinds of companies linked to the territory, linked to the country, linked to the generation of wealth, which have corporate social responsibility not written in a role but to exercise it. Will the Calvo Group ever assume that it has social sensibilities?, that it has corporate social responsibility after putting 300 people on the street to earn 3 million euros more? Marea says no. And in Marea, he says no to this model of spoiling capitalism. Is it acceptable that this is the logic of the system?, is it acceptable for companies to use their results account and dividends exclusively and not include other elements? That is why we say that economic growth is not moving to social welfare, that economic growth is not moving to wages, that economic growth does not move to employment. Because there's a neoliberal model of economic growth in which companies and large business groups earn the most and pay the working class. I sometimes feel a little tender when I hear the Fishery Counsellor say that the Galician Union can't do anything in the case of Conservation of Outer Space. And I'm going to remind you: until 2012 there was already a pretty hard work regulation in this country, because it had gone through the 2011 job reform. But until 2012, when a company like Calvo wanted to do that, he had to apply for prior administrative authorization. It was the Council of Galicia that decided whether that could be done or not given the reasons. The Galician Union tells us today: I can't do anything. Of course you can! But if you can't legally do it, it's because you've done a job reform for companies and workers. It is complicit that this situation may exist. The second mistake I made the other day is to think that the People's Party has social sensibilities, which it has ever had to choose between companies and workers, or — better said — between shareholders of companies and workers, could be confused and elect workers and workers. That was my mistake. And I don't know if they remember, but in my interrogation I didn't look for any kind of confrontation with the People's Party. You know why? I'm going to say it again in a dramatic way: Calvo's workers only have the German Government to defend themselves. That's why I'm not attacking them, because the workers and the workers of the Foreign Conservation are today in the factory looking here to see whether the People's Party supports this motion or not, to see if the Galician Union is acting. Because the company, thanks to the reform of the People's Party of 2012, has the possibility of a unilateral decision that can then be the object of appeal in social courts. But who decides is the company thanks to that reform. And I'm confused that the People's Party had social sensibility. And today, although the motion uses the tone of the inquiry, because I'm angry, because Calvo's workers and workers told me we were angry at this meeting, because they need the Galician Union to act. And it is unacceptable to passivity — I said, that the councillor did not like it for the first time — and the complicity of the Galician Union in the closure of the main industrial company in that territory. As they don't support this motion, as Calvo Esteiro shuts down, as 300 jobs are lost, as this whole county is without its leading industrial company, that Calvo ghost will pursue the People's Party throughout the legislation. We won't tolerate the Industry Councillor coming here to talk about the companies he wants to close in Marea, because every time he says that, I'll shout from my seat: You keep Calvo in Esteiro. We will not allow them to question En Marea's support for industrial enterprises in this country and for workers in this country. Because we're with them. [[Applause]] And those who will close the company are the Galician Union in complicity with the business group. And I'll finish my speech. Today we're all going to portray ourselves in this House, because there are 300 people looking here, and those people -- I'm going to say again -- because of this reform of the PP that gives the world power to businesses, they only have as their defense in the face of the unilateral decision of the German Government. The Greek Government can't go out in front of society saying it has no capacity to act on our country's business fabric, it can't do that. It's good for you to be neoliberal, but listen here that in case any company decides to take the ship that closes Calvo and set up a new company, there will be all the help it takes to make that implantation. I say it even backwards: if the Calvo Group had changed its mind and had suddenly introduced itself to the Galician Union saying that if given a grant, it would keep employment and activity, the People's Party Group, the Galician Union, would run behind that idea. But in the face of a business decision, Junta is committed and unable to defend our country's rights.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. Mr Losada has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, the truth is, in the plea that gave rise to this motion, I missed the sectoral approach that I was the Fisheries Adviser who had responded and not been the Industry Advisor, because a large part of the public funds coming to the Calvo Group — not the only ones — are true — come from both the Igape and the Galician Innovation Agency. Therefore, Mr. Conde's competence. To the Calvo Group, in economic terms, it's good. The increase in billing in 2016 compared to 2015 was 8.4% — I think it's a good result. It has also just announced, accompanying media — which is legitimate — the press rounds and government power points, which will dedicate 25 million euros to the 2017-2022 Conservation Strategic Plan; more or less the Union will provide 100 million euros and other companies with the remaining 75. I say so because for several months they have been leaving photographs with different ethnic compositions of different advisors: Fisheries advisor, Industry advisor, President of the Union, Anfaco, President of the Congress of Deputies; finally, all kinds of institutional positions of the People's Party announcing this Strategic Plan of the Canterage 2017-2025. In addition, given that the sector — I think it is obvious, it is not necessary to be a professor of Economic History in Galicia — is a strategic sector for this autonomous community, and they have been ruling since 2009, having been thinking about the need for this plan for eight years. But the fact is that the news in the sector as such is good — news from the last two months practically —: the conservation industry closes the best semester, the first half of this year 2017, in terms of export over the last ten years; exports of fishery products increase seven times more than GDP in that semester, an increase of 16% compared to 2016; and 5% increase in employment levels. So I insist that we are facing a sector that, fortunately — and I want to highlight it so that no one would say that we are against industrialization, etc., etc. — is good, with a process of internationalization that like all the processes of internationalization have some advantages and some drawbacks, because it's true that there is no zero sum. Unquestionably, the international openness to the production of the Calvo Group can lead to installations that are not being used as much as 100 percent of their capacity. Specifically, in the city of Carballo, the most modern, so to speak in some way, and probably there is the origin of this serious problem. We understand from the Socialist Group that in this situation, of course, Junta cannot do anything — understand — from the point of view of order and command, but can do anything from the political point of view. Because politics is precisely to act on those mechanisms that do not exist, which always exist, which are permitted by the law in force. The Calvo Group has grants, important public aid. In recent years, 23 million euros. Of course, there's an important issue, which is that aid is usually given to a business group and not linked to specific production centres, which is a handicap that should perhaps be modified or that can be changed at some time. There is also another important element: the Galician Union is talking about territorial rebalancing; the truth is that the Fraga governments, the Tourin government and the Feijóo government, all of them. But it's true that when facts of these characteristics happen that attack directly against that territorial rebalancing, because it's true that in the district of Walls, Carnota, Outes, in that area probably wouldn't know whether it's the only industrial facility but, of course, the one with a larger number of workers, it's necessary to act proactively. And finally, from the not so economic and social perspective, the labour force affected is a female labour force, already of a certain age, with a level of professional qualification or with a difficulty to re-adapt professionally high. So there too since Mr. Conde's advice would probably be important, it would be relevant to act. We tabled an amendment in which we talked about three questions: The first is that this strategic plan of the conservation, so announced, so publicized, is materialized at once and, of course, it defines basically four variables: the first, the improvement of productive capacity, therefore, the increase in value added to productivity; the increase in jobs; the achievement of a professional certificate that would, of course, allow for greater flexibility in relation to the location of these workers in different companies; and the monitoring of public actions and assistance. And, of course, the second point in relation to the barn factory of Esteiro...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u96	...—end, Mr President—unquestionably for us it is a central element of this second point because it is very important to maintain the possibility that this industrial facility will remain in production, whether the Calvo Group or any other group. And finally, the third point in relation to the granting of public aid, which was about the linkage to concrete production centres rather than social and business reasons. Because, of course, social and business reasons are not linked to a territory, but people are linked to the territory in which they live and work. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. You have the floor by the Galician People's Group Mr. López Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u98	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Lago, I've heard my speech. You come without papers, I bring them but I'm hardly going to use them. If it's true that they're seeing us at the Esteiro factory, I hope we're seeing all the people, the 48 who voted in favour of continuing to negotiate with the company, and the 40s voted in favour of fighting for not closing the company. The paradox of history is sometimes written on time. Yesterday El Correo Gallego brought us an evocation of the memory. Twenty-five years ago, the chief boss of the Confraternity of Noia publicly demanded that Calvo Esteiro's opening not be allowed, because it would contaminate the creek. I don't know, I'm afraid you were on that side. Today, twenty-five years later, you come here saying you don't shut up. In both cases for no reason enough to manifest itself. He filled his mouth with the workers of Esteiro, filled his mouth the other day at the interpellation saying they had voted with their hidden hand, so they forced him to vote in public. The women of the Walls, the Outes, the Girl and the Esteiro don't sneeze at all, because they're proud of their work. And they're sure with their labor and social commitment they made Calvo a leading company. [[Applause]] And now they've reasoned and talked and they've seen. And here's a problem since it's been said that Calvo closes Esteiro. So what happens there? A vote takes place between the workers, and there are two ways: One, followed by Labour and IGC committees. I don't know if you're close to some of them, if you're close to them. I know. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, don't tell me, for your conscience, what you've been talking about here. And on the other hand, there's the company committee, made up of human workers and the central... yes, there are self-employed workers, who sometimes work in unions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Human workers and UXT central. They vote in high hand and win a few. And they say, this isn't good, there's pressure... so let's make it secret, and they win the same and they follow the same. [[Mr. Lake Peñas pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Say no here, say it's not true that the workers voted for a second time in the ballot box and came out with the same result. You tell him here. What's going on? That Labor Commissions continues with the same methodology as we all know throughout social history: lies, lies and lies. And here we pass... you laugh, but this strategy used a Goebbels. Is that him? Goebbels used that tactic: they lie a hundred times that will be true. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You give Calvo 25 million grants. You say what you give them from shiftwork hours will remove it from compensation. You say if you go to the portal, you'll get better treatment and you won't close. The portal was invited ten years ago by Commissions and those interruptions that went to the protest portal today are going to work 50 kilometers away, from Calvo didn't work. Well, look, those orientations went out there two ways. From a labor problem to a social conflict, a very serious social conflict. And you know why? Because these women go to the same supermarket, these women go to the same church at Mass or funeral, go to the same health center, and what's worse -- don't get mad at the church, don't grab your head, no, and, worst of all, they're going to the same job. And there you and we, Mr. Lago, have to make sense and have to make remedy. You know you have no remedy at this time for Calvo's closure, no matter what he does for Junta. Can you imagine you're coming here and finding out that the board gives Calvo money so he won't close it? You would come here and say, "But what is this?" This is a terrible bribe that is being made to him. Well, we don't want that either. The truth is, I'm a little nervous because you touched me in the vein, and I thought we came here to solve the problem. That social problem is the only thing there is right now, and those women, Manola, Mary Carmen, Josefa, Antonia, the chairman of the committee, these people want to sleep at night and they want to think that the best right now is to tie up some good conditions for the transfer from Calvo to Carballo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u100	...don't be prejudicial. - I'm done. And that's why the People's Party here presents an amendment which, while fully respecting what you do in your initiative, increases a circumstance, a request, which is that you respect the will freely expressed by the workers of Calvo Esteiro. And another, that this parliament, the board and the unions commit themselves to the agreement that the workers with Calvo will reach will be fulfilled. Mr. Lago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u102	...he devoted his whole life to working and working for the workers to get them to their expectations, here's a chance to say it. But tell those Estero workers if it's true...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u103	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u104	...that they don't have the request to continue working on Cabo de Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u105	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u106	I'm not talking about the PSOE amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u107	Mr. Crespo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u108	...—Excuse me, President—because it is very clear in the counsellor's speech here the other day...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u109	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u110	...the Conservation Plan invites you to attend in July, and I don't know if they've gone or not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u112	Nothing else. Mr. Lago, think about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u113	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u114	Thank you, President. According to or without it, by vote or without it, the People's Party's Member, the reality is that this decision of the Calvo Group means loss of jobs, essentially loss of jobs for women. It means worsening working conditions, because getting up at five in the morning to get to Carballo, walking on the bus... Ah! they can go all and go to Carballo with those 300 euros that they signed, who signed it, and, if they want, for the first two years, to go live in Carballo. Deterioration, loss. It means choosing between the bad and the worst. To all that call you just made here, Mr. López Crespo, choose between the bad and the worst. And it means benefit to the company, it basically means more benefit to the company. And you just said here that, no matter what you do to Junta, you can't do any more. No, because Junta already did the role she wanted to do, she already did the role she wanted to do. And what the Junta and the People's Party did is what they know to do better: scapism — in the face of a problem to do as they just learned — and cynicism. Scafism and cynicism, that's what the Union and the People's Party did. The People's Party, with Nuñez Feijóo, in the head, who went to visit the Carballo factory, the advisor who went to visit the Carballo factory, who knew perfectly the plans of the company, who went there to give him the no-obstruction and who went to give millions of grants of the resources of the Greeks and the Greeks to the group... Of course, you don't play to say half-truths: to the group! Indeed, to the group, to the group, to the group, where all accounts go. And just like in other processes of this type, it goes all to the common box and then they charge losses where they're interested in justifying their decision. That's the reality: concentration of business and increase of profit, although there are workers and workers on the road. Even if jobs are lost on the way, because even if part goes for the moment to Carballo, jobs are lost, and jobs are lost — I insist — women. And a government has legal instruments, you have them, you have to use them. And it's obvious that the People's Party only wants to use them, that legislation, when it's against the workers, against the workers; when it's to read the paper to a company a little bit, it certainly doesn't want to use it. And, above all, a government has political instruments, political instruments, and that's where the People's Party doesn't want to use any instrument, either legal or political, because you're in government for the glory, benefit and profit of the entrepreneurs, even though the working class is on the way. Today we again know the employment situation data in our country: the third consecutive month where people in Galicia continue to increase unemployment, precariousness, wages of poverty, rotation and all that. But for the People's Party those issues are collateral damage. The fundamental objective is that capital has more and more profits, the fundamental objective is to govern the service of a few. You keep that roadmap unmovable, unfortunately for the Greek people and unfortunately for the working class in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mr. Lago Peñas has the floor on the motion's author group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u116	Mr. Crespo, if in addition to receiving the company's argumentary, the Galician board had the decency to receive the unions, perhaps he knew the whole version. But after his intervention, the People's Party no longer has a social soul, it's that the People's Party is reactionary, and it's located in front of the unions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Listening to a representative of the popular sovereignty of this country assault the workers' and workers' unions in Wales is embarrassing, Mr. Member, shame! [[Applause]] Let me explain. Like you don't know anything about workers and unions, do you? I do, I've been affiliated with a union for thirty-five years, and I'm very proud. [[Mr. López Crespo utters words that are not perceived from his scan.]] Would I like to know how many of this bench have membership that is not for the CISF, to set an example? Let me tell you: as you know nothing... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Balbordo.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u117	Silence! Listen to who's using the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u118	...as you don't know anything about unions, workers, voting and assembly, I'll explain. There's a vote... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u119	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u120	...there's a vote which is demanded to be in the ballot box, and the company prevents and causes it to be held by the high hand, with the supervisors watching... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I could tell that deputy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u121	I ask Members to keep quiet, just as when others were talking, we ask them to keep the rest quiet. So, please listen to who's in the use of the word. Continue, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u122	Mr. Crespo, if you can go up to the gallery and say that only one of the people who work in Calvo Esteiro is delighted to go to work with hours and a half of travel to Carballo and an hour and a half back... is that the workers are delighted with that decision! I'll explain to you what a union negotiation is with the reform of the People's Party. That's right: the management of the company, the lawyer, and he says, "Let's close Calvo Esteiro -- in parenthesis: we have the agreement of the Galician Union -- and from here on we're going to negotiate what your terms of transfer are. If you don't want to negotiate transfer conditions, great!, we don't negotiate anything, you're going to Carballo without negotiating anything. As I have the possibility of unilateral decision to impose the conditions, because if you don't want to negotiate nothing business." Mr. Crespo, there will be a vote on that supposed agreement that will be there. By the way, I'm telling you that in the supposed agreement that's being negotiated there, what's more detailed, you know what it is? The layoff compensation workers will receive for not going to Carballo. It is the fundamental component of the agreement: how many days will they charge for not going to work in Carballo. So, of course, they missed the chance to find a solution. And I'm going to say it again: the People's Party is an accomplice in a very serious decision against employment, economics, people's rights in that territory. And I'm going to remember him every time he talks about industrial policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u123	Please position yourself on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u124	The amendments: we accept point 1 of the amendment of the Socialist Party; we obviously do not accept the amendment of the People's Party, because what the amendment of the People's Party says is that once we accept the closure of Calvo Esteiro, we take steps to make the measure as smooth as possible. We're not going to accept Calvo Esteiro's closure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Junta de Galicia in relation to the situation of health personnel of the Galego Health Service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u126	An amendment was tabled to this motion by the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mrs. Monserrat Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u127	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u128	Thank you, President. Good morning. See if we can even link a few motions with others, and in this case the PP also proposes to listen to the workers, see if we're going to find some agreement in this too; workers in the health system. We had an interpellation the other day, productive in a way, in which we came to some understanding of those things in which we disagreed; sometimes it's a breakthrough at least understanding the things in which it disagrees. By making a very brief summary of our position, and in which we see that it is shown and that it reflects the position of the workers, who usually move in it -- seeing that in this case, in addition, it is possible, therefore, that we all adopt the position of the workers -- the situation of Sergas's public employment has two serious problems, it is probably the essential problem of the system, but it has two serious problems within it: one is of quality and the other is of quantity. We have a quality problem in the work of the health system, because we are subjecting our staff to poor working conditions, and there are some agreements that have been paralysed. And the Government of Galicia celebrates only recovering rights that would never have to be paralyzed as they were in 2010. Interestingly, one of the first measures taken in health by the Government of Nuñez Feijóo when he arrived at the Union was to paralyze the workers' rights. I'm saying this in case the impulses on workers' defense can be extended to this motion. We have a problem of precariousness based primarily on which one out of five health jobs that were in 2009 were stable now are not. There are about seven thousand posts that were stable in 2009 and are now eventually covered. Those workers who sign contracts for years from Monday to Friday at the same job, so that Junta doesn't pay them on Saturday and Sunday, which is a rather miserable way to treat the workers. Seven thousand people! I know, and here we found some discrepancy the other day: the counselor said that about 300 jobs would be created. Discrepancies first: we don't like jobs to be created, but it's much better for these jobs to occupy people, because jobs keep up according to the staff, but people don't. What's the value of budgeting jobs if we don't put anyone to work at those jobs? It has a value, which is to hide that money that is budgeted for that is used to pay eventualities. Four hundred million euros each year that the Union is committed to sponsoring work insecurity in the health system. We defend that there are seven thousand posts that are not occupied, and the board doesn't even say no, because it's true, and it doesn't even say no. But we make a proposal so ambitious in this motion, so revolutionary — I don't know if you have a qualification like the unions have now — but so revolutionary, so ultra-radical as to ask for a report, that the Joint Real Report on how many posts are covered in a stable way by those who are budgeted and how many are not. We will be able to believe among all of us that the Union will be able to provide the information. We make a second proposal in terms of quality of employment: that the agreements with the workers be recovered. I'm really going to try to get that amendment that was proposed to the previous motion, about respecting the workers' agreements, and I'm going to try to move it to this initiative, to see if we're all agreed to approve and include as a proposal to heed the workers' agreements. See if the previous one was a toast to the sun or is it a desire of the People's Party to listen to the workers of the system. I suppose they'll ask for it for the workers of a private company, too, and they'll defend it especially for the workers of the public system. So we have two proposals: one, one report and, second, that the labor rights that workers are demanding are recovered, and that they were paralyzed in 2010. And by the way, they only asked to match the Spanish average in 2010; only to match the average, nothing especially more revolutionary. And we have a problem of quantity, an amount that leads, among other things, to some inescapable waiting lists, which were held here the other day of "anecdotes." Anecdotes: you wait for a year and a half, you wait for five months for a serious psychology problem, you wait for more than a year for rehabilitation. Anecdotes, isolated cases. Those people who have to wait must be those lords you're talking to me about, right? Isolated cases are people. And people who if there are cases that can be put here, we can put it, and it would be possible to bring a non-law proposition and devote all the time to dating, the ten minutes and then the five of the replica, all the time. We could, and so on; what happens is that it's not productive, unless someone wants to deny that there are serious waiting lists problems in the health system. By the way, there are waiting lists that they will be licked through the agreements, while entire plants of the hospital are closed. For example, the third floor of the Salnés Hospital. Yesterday there were thousands of people showing up even though we didn't wear sandwiches, as if we were told to pay for the demonstrations. You've opened, yes, to film a series of televisions. And don't forget: they opened a hospital plant to film a series of televisions, but not to enter people, not to get them to work, because they don't put people and they don't make people personal about it. An OPE has been summoned, it's true. The People's Party refused, the councillor didn't want to. The OPE that the PP didn't want was forced by a March initiative of the Socialist Party, which was caused by socialist pressure in this parliament, and that the PP didn't want to convene, it's true. He said yes, as soon as he did not, as soon as he depended on budgets, which is a lie; then he did not, as soon as he returned, as soon as he was double, as soon as it was simple. They seemed to be calling for a burger contest. Actually, you don't want to call OPE because you don't defend this system. That's how you're waiting for the Ministry of Finance to send your vacancies, and it's paralysed by OPE because you don't send your personal vacancies as much as you need. Let them no longer report to us, let us ask for it in the motion, but at least give it to Montoro, so he can call OPE. At least give it to Montoro! They're not counting their vacancies, they're calling their attention. We have an OPE paralyzed because of a brutal inefficiency in that sense. But the OPE, in addition, is absolutely insufficient and is absolutely inefficient. Why is it insufficient? Well, look, in that March resolution, in which you voted against, we put the OPE this year, which was the one that voted in favour, even if they didn't, but we made a proposal to hire about six thousand to six thousand and five hundred public workers during the legislation. They said that this was unbearable, unimaginable, that it was crazy. The counsellor went up here fifteen days ago, at the interrogation we did to him, he sees that he has to go a little bit to the gossip of what we thought to him, and he's already spoken of five thousand. What at that time was unbearable, amazing and meaningless, now it's five thousand in this legislation. If they open up a little bit more, they'll get to what we thought, and then we could even accept that agreement. Six thousand, six thousand and five hundred people, at least, are needed in the healthcare system so that when this legislation is finished, we have a higher quality of health at work and, therefore, with greater quality for users. Six thousand or six thousand five hundred. You guys used to say zero, now they're talking about five thousand; there's little left, don't worry. Let's see if we have more interpellation if we move them a little further forward and they reach six thousand, and then we can deal with them. Keep in mind that we're almost pulling things out of you, but we're going to keep insisting. Besides, it's absolutely inefficient, why? Will this OPE solve the problem of the garbage contracts that you feed and you exploit in public health? No, we're going to continue having people who call them at eight in the morning to enter at eight and five; we're going to continue having people who don't know if they have to work the next day and have to be pendant; people who can't make their lives; people who hire them today for one service and tomorrow for another, who change them from place to place and therefore have a difficulty in learning and taking business risks, they and the people they treat; and doctors who don't know how to land. Are we going to solve that problem with this OPE? No, it's absolutely insufficient. Only OPE solves how with an invitation to fill out the casualties of people retired this year. What about all those who retired earlier and didn't retire? We're assuming we're not getting personal back; we're assuming, therefore, that we have less personal than we need. We clearly demand the need to include public calls throughout this legislation to meet the need for staff. More personnel are needed and we need to treat the staff we have better. I remind you — some of the present were there and I like this reflection that a primary care doctor had made, the other day we took part in the health voices along with Sergas' manager in an interesting debate. And one of the doctors present made a reflection that I want to transfer to the whole House. He said that about the health care staff, if they speak very well, if they say very nice things, that the board says fantastic things. But he said something like this: don't talk to me so much and put more chapter I. I translate it so it's clearer: less flowers and more budget. Because speaking is free, but health isn't free, you have to pay, but to pay for it we need to hire more staff, so our citizenship has a better service. And you have to decide whether you want that better service or not. Fewer flowers and more health budget, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u129	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u130	It's obvious that in order to have quality public services, in order to have quality public health, it's necessary to have sufficient staff to qualify. And the Government of the Union, of the People's Party, on the other hand, what you're doing is all you can to reduce that human capital to the minimum expression in quantity, and to reduce the working conditions of professionals who develop their activity in public health in Galicia, eliminating year after year jobs, with a really heavy recruitment policy, where the People's Party no longer approves labour reforms to keep the working class straight, but then in governments behaves like the worst of patterns. A labour policy that affects staff has been done and has also affected staff hired. First, it was the excuse of the crisis, but if theoretically the crisis is already history in the discourse of the People's Party, the normal thing would be, at least, to sit down and change the situation. But that's not the intention of the People's Party. And we agree with the need to address the issues of staff more, of course, at BNG we have a different approach in certain respects to the initiative presented today by the Socialist Party, and that is why we tabled an amendment. The first point of this amendment is to replace the resolutive part of paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 with the following text, and is that "the Greek Government assumes its powers and ceases to practice a policy of submission to the Spanish Government." And we demand in this amendment that it "exercises its powers in the field of health employment and demands that Law 3/2017, of June 27, of general State budgets for the year 2017, and then, does not have a basic normative character in relation to Sergas health personnel squares, since this law continues to maintain the replacement rate." And what we demand at this point is that the German Government exercises the exercise of the German Government, that the Greek Government does not go along the path marked by the People's Party of Permanent Recentralization and cease exercising powers which even the law that is effective, which is defective, confers upon us Galicia and the German Government. Of course, at the BNG, we do not accept any questions where there is a competitive framework because it is the Government of Madrid who decides how and when elections are called and how. And we also demand that a replenishment rate be maintained, where we simply consider 100 percent of the squares but from 2015, with which those that were lost between 2010 and 2015 — well over 2,000 jobs — are not contemplated in these OPEs that are being convened. It is clear, therefore, that no more jobs are being earned at all. That's why we tabled this amendment. Also, the second point is: "Present a job stability plan that allows Sergas staff to recover from 2009" in the direction of what I'm saying. Of course, the MP of the People's Party earlier said that Goebbels invented that of a repeated lie a thousand times ends up becoming true. So, the People's Party intends to install the report that jobs are being recovered, when, first, these public job offers do not call all the squares. But covered squares!, they're not new squares. I'm saying this because anyone who doesn't read a little bit of the small letter may think that it's creating jobs in Galicia's public health; it's not that one doesn't create a single square, but that one doesn't even get the job lost since 2010.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u131	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u132	Therefore, amend that direction. And then our amendment is to replace paragraph 5, where the Socialist Party's initiative says: "Continue dialogue with trade union organizations in health care for the progressive recovery," in the BNG, what we say is that immediately we start negotiations on the Sectoral Bureau of Sergas for the recovery of agreements signed, which are law, and that the People's Party has left a dead end in 2010 saying it was because of the crisis, and that now we don't want to hear about recovering all those rights from Galician health personnel. And, of course, they are the least charged by the Spanish State and those who have worse working conditions with regard to the Spanish State, but also with regard to other workers and workers in the Galician Union. Which seems to us to be amendments that improve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u134	...the initiative presented by the Socialist Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u136	Thank you, President. We're talking again about public health personnel, this time with a PSdEG motion that includes various measures. We're actually in agreement with the global picture and we're not amending it. In fact, a lot more could be included. And that's why the general abandonment of public health policies has been the constant of the Health Council for many years. We could even talk about the recovery of the pay agreements; it just moved the BNG voicer here too, and we've already put forward initiatives in this direction. We could even talk about the situation of nursing specialties, the need for specialist squares to be held, which are not being carried out either, nor are the necessary squares being converted to those places so that they can begin to replace. Or even the situation of medical specialists and the inability — we have discussed it on many occasions, the last in that public debate — of planning the need for professionals to replace retirements and casualties. We have a very serious problem, in our understanding, a problem that has started a number of years ago with difficulty replacing in Anesthesia, which continued with Pediatrics, which today is signifying that in most health centers in our country there are continuous complaints about the absence of pediatricians, and there is no plan. We have also proposed this at the time in the Health Committee; it has not been accepted; of course, the Government may have another proposal. But there is also no other proposal on the table to deal with this problem, nor is it taken to the Interterritorial Health Commission to see what is done, because it is true that other autonomous communities also have deficiencies. Now, the problem also extends to the mammoths and matrons, and now we have it also to the doctors and primary care doctors. And it is a very serious problem because lately in the Health Committee most of the initiatives we are discussing are due to the absence of substitutes for professionals. And that's because the needs of professionals are not planned -- and this doesn't happen for a year or two -- when there's no planning of specialists that are needed -- that contracts are made in precarious terms, and professionals don't accept those contracts, as is logical, and if they have a chance of other recruitment they don't accept this. And it's a situation that gets worse and worse because, of course, years go by and professionals retire. And for us this is an inability to manage and inoperation of the Health Council. And it's a reality that is evidenced every year in budgets. We've talked about the nearly one thousand eight hundred squares that have been amortizing — and reference has been made here — in the last few years since the replacement rate was applied. And this year they now announce that public job offer, which obviously continues to be lacking; they speak of a thousand and six hundred squares. And it happens that if we stay all the professionals who retire this year, we're less than half left. And the rest are going to try to stabilize what they haven't stabilized before, that they're still covered with vacancies and temporary contracts. And, of course, concatenation of contracts, which the European Court of Justice has denounced as illegal, is a current problem for the Galician Union, but there is no recovery of the deadlocks in recent years. That temporality — which I will not tire of repeating once again — was reported by the Board of Auditors, which literally says that it is observed that "an annual decrease of 638 personnel means of ownership and an increase of 458 interim personnel." It is the usual modus operandi in recent years, where we have replaced contracts, fixed employment markets, stable employment, contracts with fewer guarantees, inter alia, and, if I am ready, temporary contracts. It made the Board of Auditors a temporaryity in the last report ranging from 23.8% in primary care to 34.5% in specialized education. The precarious situation is extremely high. And we have denounced these contracts — and it has already been mentioned here, of course — which gave precisely that in October the Labour Inspectorate, moved by a complaint made by the Nursing Union, declared the situation in which the contracts are being made — which has already been denounced many times in this plenary and in the Health Committee itself, in which the wear of the Health Council does not cover the days off as the days on which the contracts are being made. Not only is it hired from Monday to Friday, of course, and it's not hired at the weekend, but it's also happening in the specialized for days: they can hire a Monday and Tuesday, Wednesday you go home, you come back on Thursday. So for years; this situation is not new. And he ends the Health Council by losing another sentence because of this situation. Obviously, more public personnel are needed and staff stabilized. But unfortunately, after the budgetary debate we've just seen the matches, the Galician Union is clear that it won't increase public professionals. I hope the PSdEG is luckier today also asking for information because unfortunately we continue to ask for information on recruitment on this camera. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u138	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Torrado, I thought in this speech — I was wrong at first — I would not talk about your book as the famous Paco Umbral had said, but in the end, he ended up talking about his book, which in this case is his OPE. I have to thank you on behalf of our group for allowing the Greek Government to convene sixteen out of the 1,616 squares approved at the board last week. The rest we already know of all the Members and Members you have summoned them. You asked the counsellor two weeks ago about the employment situation of Sergas' staff and spent half of the intervention approximately hanging medals in connection with this call from this OPE, forgetting that the president had been in this same Chamber talking about that OPE and talking about the total numbers that would be called. [[Applause]] But that wasn't important, he was ruining the film and there was no need to talk, that wasn't to mention it, was it? Look, Mr. Torrado, it is clear that there are workers and health workers who are called to eight in the morning to go to work, to those who are called in the middle of the morning and to those who are called in the middle of the afternoon. You know there's an unforeseeable number of situations every day for disease reasons or a cause of survival that require urgent coverage of strategic health-care places. Activities and services that can't be discovered, which forces us to replace personnel in unexpected situations as soon as possible. Last Friday, a news from the press said, "Sergas' needs make it very difficult to drop by 7% of temporality. Together and trade unions have agreed that once the call schedule is completed by 2020, which will include some less than 15,000 places, it will be possible to speak of "practical stability" in self-employment. He continues and ends by saying, "The level within four years could be over 7% (5% in Sergas), but it will be very difficult to get off there because of the weight of health employment in Junta. (...) In some health posts they work on shifts and their strategic nature requires that replacements be accelerated to cover casualties, for which the so-called pool lists are used, in which hundreds of professionals expect to be claimed for health work even for hours." You see that even the unions themselves admit that it is impossible to meet health without a degree of eventuality. Our group has, of course, on several occasions asked Parliament to act on the quality of employment. In the majority group, we know that there are better aspects of Sergas' work, but that are being corrected since the council with agreements with the union centers that they want to negotiate, which are not all of them. You repeatedly punish us with the famous item of the health barometer, which speaks of the average rating note. It is clear that the Greeks are very demanding, but, of course, they always forget the rest of the barometer, and I want to remind you today: Preference for public assistance on private matters, of course. We're in Galicia above average in the assessment of primary emergency and hospital care. We're under the average considering worsening hospital care over the last few years. In Galicia public health is suspended by 12.4% of citizens, and half of them by four. Only 2.6% of Welsh and Welsh express that health care was worse than expected. In rating waiting lists, much better than average. By the way, you talked about the work problems and waiting lists: Galicia, surgery, 62 days, and the average of Spain, 104; Catalonia, 149; Andalusia, 66; Castile-A Mancha, 177; Extremadura, 125; Valencian Community, 89, etc. Hospital care is good or very good for the Greeks, 94.7%; the Spanish average is 85%. And the rates of improvement in hospital care would be much better than the average. You use the whole barometer, Mr. Torrado, and you don't stay in a single number. And the answer to your motion is reflected in the facts. This year's signature of the stability plan in the employment of Sergas' statutory staff, with the aim of reducing the eventuality of employment to 5%. Creation in 2018 of 365 squares, more than 100 medical squares, new squares. OPE 2017 – the one you called – with 1,616 squares. On the 2017-2020 horizon, through the OPE, about 5,000 people can access a stable square. This agreement was signed by most of the German unions. Recovery of different rights, repayment of payments, salary allowances, recovery of the supplement... if there's one that doesn't recover, which is the 2010 handkerchief you always forget and which cost us between 5% and 7% of the salary to all civil servants and staff of the public administration all over the country. Signature of the new contract, call for a standing open transfer contest, 2% upward forecast for the year 2018, which is reserved in budgets, extension of paternity and maternity permits, and payment of the average pay by guards, nightlife, holidays and other supplements.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u139	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u140	—Finished, President. Start of negotiations on the last day 1 of the ordinary professional career system of Sergas professionals, with the establishment of the Technical Commission Delegate of the Sectoral Health Bureau. Look, Mr. Torrado, these are realities; trade union organizations have information about OPs and stability and Sergas has made all the necessary information available to the Ministry of Health that you claim. We do not doubt that you would like to run Sergas's employment contract and plan to convene the next OPE announced by the Fatenda advisor in the budget debate, but we think that for now that will not be possible. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u141	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Motion author group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u142	Thank you, President. Thank you for the support shown by En Marea for this initiative. Obviously, if there were many other issues that could be included. The pay agreements are, but the specialties too, the training... there was to do full monographs, as En Marea's voicer knows. The general coincidence of the idea that BNG transmits exists, and you know the BNG voicer that exists. We're not going to accept the amendment. It seems to us that to say almost the same things, but by changing our points of view, we basically defend our own, which we think essentially defends the same, but a motion that replaces 90% of our own because it also seems to us to be inappropriate, but we're sure to understand it. About my book. Mr. Núñez Centeno, you talked here two minutes about my assessment of the health barometer, which I didn't mention. I also tell you one thing: I don't assume much -- I know you applaud me -- but you have to go out here and discuss something that I usually mention, when I didn't even say it now, something is happening to you with the speech that we have, and it must be true. [[Applause]] But since you answered me for two minutes, I'm going to repeat it — I don't like it, but it's true — our health assessed by the users, by the citizens, is the third worst in the autonomous communities of Spain. And that's a reality. And you can discuss here the data you want, even when I don't say them, even when I talk about other things, but that's it. And that's what the OPE of Health approved in this parliament on the initiative of the Socialist Party, and that's what the Galician Union is not sending its vacancies to Madrid, and that's what they're blocking the call from this OPE, and that's what the president announced once, the next month he stopped announcing it, the next month he asked for support from the Socialist Party, the following month he said he didn't and the next month he didn't know what to say. And that's a reality. And what we're defending is that this OPE has to be summoned, we have to call it already — it's late enough — but we have to call a lot more. And that in this legislation we offer them agreements on the number of people who have to be hired, because of course it is necessary to hire to provide stability to the system. We've made progress, too. I recognize him and thank him for that advance. You recognize him. It's the first time I hear you recognize someone from the People's Party who has a problem with precarious hiring staff. And what we're asking is that it's resolvable. Of course it takes a degree of eventuality, of course, as in all labor spaces. But it's necessary not to be in an unacceptable precarious situation, but to improve the system. And what we can't have is one in five people lost in stability with respect to 2009, or we have judgments against them because we're hiring people as potential structural positions for years. That's indecent and it's a system of exploitation. And we can't accept it in any way, and especially in health care. So I hope, since you agree with these things, that you can approve them, because I understand that you agree you must be able to approve even if they are another group. And I also ask them to keep in mind that this eventuality of what you're talking about as if it were a biblical plague that they're trying to solve. We're on it. And as you see the measures we propose at the end, they're not so bad that you're getting close to them. So it's also possible for us to reach an agreement between all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u143	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. G.P. motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the policy of the Government of Greece on emergency care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u144	An amendment was made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u145	Mrs Solla has the floor to defend the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u146	Thank you, President. Good day again. We are now in substanceing this motion, on the proposal by En Marea, the collation of the Interpellation, which we have already made in the past full to Mr. Vice-President of the Union, on the mismanagement of emergencies in our country. In the past full we attended with concern to a appearance of the vice president by throwing balloons out throughout the presence, transferring responsibility for emergencies and fire extinguishing to the municipalities, obviating his own responsibilities, that the Board of Galicia has, in the wake of articles 11, 12 and, above all, 13 of the Galician Emergency Act, which transfer responsibility, especially in Article 13 of the Territorial Plan for Civil Protection, the map, special plans, the risk catalogue, the Emergency Plan, the coordination of administrations and the responsibility for training in civil protection, which lies precisely with the Vice-President of the Galician Union. A vice president who has announced measures that are neither new nor budgeted to carry out. A vice president is unable to take on the errors committed in emergency management by the Galician Union. We've been in this chamber for years the different opposition groups denouncing the discoordination of services, the extreme precariousness derived from the privatization of emergency services. We suffered unfortunately during the Angrois accident; we denounced and denied that there was no problem arising from their management. It repeated with the fire of Fandicosta, and they denied it again, everything was fine for the Union of Galicia. He again complained of the sinking of the New Marcos fisherman, with attention that he suffered unfortunate delays from coordination and from the delays of the emergency platform, but they again refused. He was denounced with the dismissal of the brigadiests, with his precariousness. Denunciation was made of the privatization of emergency helicopters; the spurious business done in connection with that privatization was denounced. The flight hours cut from the 061 helicopters was reported. The shortcomings of the 112 platform have been reported. But they never hear anything at all, neither these parliamentary groups nor the union representatives, who obviously came from a session today where no work was done in this chamber. And he had to arrive another misfortune, the wave of fires this fall, to show that the Council of Galicia was still not doing anything at all. The Emergency Act is undisturbed, despite the fact that it's almost a decade of its approval. In February 2015, the inter-union Bureau of Galician Firefighters asked the Galician Board to open the negotiation of the settlement of Galician firefighting and rescue services, which is what marks the law, but they did not do so at all. In front of the deaf ears, in May of that same year we lived in Santiago de Compostela a multitude of demonstrations of firemen. But Mr. Minor, the emergency officer in Galicia, has ignored it. The groups have all this time brought on multiple occasions initiatives aimed at resolving this situation. In September 2015, an initiative was unanimously adopted by the BNG that was amended by the People's Party, which according to the Journal of Sessions says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council, by virtue of its participation in the management and financing of the provincial consortia for the provision of the fire and rescue service, to coordinate through the competent board of directors the joint elaboration of a proposal for a regulation of the professional firefighter and volunteering, collecting additional provision, point 3 of Law 5/2007, which should be given prior consent through a negotiating table in which it is together with the representatives of the municipalities with firefighters' own parks, as well as the union representation of firefighters. This table will be set up before the end of this session." Finished 2015, finished 2016, will end 2017, and the board continues to do absolutely nothing; the law continues to fail and the agreements of this camera remain unfulfilled. At this point, there must be a terrible wave of fires so that the vice president unfortunately feels like he's going to take some kind of service improvement measure. Unfortunately, something must always happen so that someone is worthy to think about making some decision. And today we ask again, therefore, that the necessary actions be carried out to homogenize the benefits and working conditions throughout the Greek territory of the prevention, extinction of fires and rescue services, as well as to carry out the elaboration of the fireman's regulation, which also contributes to homogenizing its formation. We ask you once and for all to stop despising professionals, to stop breaking the law. It's a shame that since 2007 we have to keep bringing this circumstance to this camera. We also call on the initiative to initiate the necessary procedures for the public and direct management of fire stations. This disunity, this management that we're still living with the few media that count the fire parks in our country, it has to end, and that goes through public management. We need to have a public body with the same working conditions, but as long as this public service is not carried out, we call on this initiative to promote, as long as this direct management is not completed, ensuring that all fire stations maintain the same working conditions, similar to those of the public parks' colleagues. And there have been multiple situations in all these years in which we have denounced in this chamber the precarious work of privatized firefighters. We also want procedures to be initiated for the recovery of 112 as a public service. We can't go on with workers with call center conventions at 112. We can't continue with a totally precarious emergency service, with insufficient personnel. And we also ask that problems with the 112 platform be dealt with and solved urgently. I said it the other day: the platform hired Mr. Martín de Pozuelo Romay still doesn't work 100 percent. We have already said that prior to the October fire strike, workers and workers continued to denounce the same matters that they reported during the strike and before the strike, of malfunctioning on the platform. It's true that some minor improvements have been made, but they continue to report collapses of the plant, with queues of calls over the summer months, despite the fact that the workers themselves recognize that there were fewer emergencies this year in the summer months than in the past half of the year. And we want enough staff to be provided to the call centre, both of the 112 and the 061 call station. Speaking of 061, Mr. Rueda came back again with the matter of the transfer to next year. And it must be the only one who knows something, because workers and workers don't know anything at all. And this is a huge irresponsibility. Because after living what we lived with the transfer of the 112 station, that the workers and the workers had to go to strike, although they did not unfortunately want an indefinite strike, so that they would be heard, and eventually they had to assume their labor claims as a whole, the Galician board repeats the same scheme again in the case of 061, because there is no negotiating table at this point. We call for a dialogue table with representatives of workers to negotiate the transfer conditions of 061. And that the resources dedicated to 061 are increased. There is no budget increase in 2018 to solve the personnel problems or the transfer of the power plant. We call for sufficient budgets to carry out these aspects. We have a very serious problem: privatization is destroying the system, and companies are running downhill. Three months ago, Ambiberica took up management, and they're already presenting proposals for layoffs, ranging from 4% to 25% of workers' wages cut. I don't know what you think of the Members and Members of this House, would it be good for you to do the same with the rest of the workers? Would it be good for you to do the same with the salaries of the Members and Members of this House? This isn't new, it's a continuous blackmail of companies competing on the ground. This is the fruit of the privatization of services. And it always ends the same: with cuts for the staff -- because not only does the salary attack, is that now they're going to question the days of free will or even the payrolls per parenthood -- or with an increase in profits for the company. It's very easy: it's concocted downstairs, it moves the workers into an extreme situation where they have to go to a protest, where they have to go to a strike, and they're increased a benefit that we all pay, because the Galician Union also wants to privatize the services of the 061. And, therefore, we also ask that the resources needed to reduce response services in attendance be improved, at least forty minutes to thirty minutes, because unfortunately the result of privatization is not only the cuts for professionals, it is a mismanagement that causes rural municipalities to delay forty and sometimes fifty minutes to respond to a health emergency. In short, we have a very serious problem with the management of health emergencies and emergencies in our country, which is simply returning public services and, of course, increasing budgets. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u148	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The other day at the presence of the Vice-President of the Board at this plenary session on 21 November, and precisely on the occasion of the appearance requested by him, because I believe that all groups, at least the opposition groups in this chamber and in this plenary, focus precisely on the serious deterioration or obvious failures in Galicia's emergency and civil protection systems. Because although, indeed, it was an appearance — as we have said — on several occasions escapist, insofar as no allusion or self-criticism was made, yes something, because there was no more remedy left at the replication stage, to the problems of the emergency service operation during the fire strike of October 14 and 15, although, of course, great problems have been raised which lead us to continue to analyse with this motion the situation towards the future. In that speech by the Vice-President — as we know and are aware — we have asked a number of questions that were precisely trying to focus on all these problems. And basically in a problem that is the summary of the whole question that we should be concerned about the efficient functioning of Galician emergency and civil protection services forward, which is whether it is capable of giving a comprehensive response to emergency situations in the face of certain types of disasters. We wondered if the fragmentation of the operation of different services was ensuring this effective response and this response especially integral. We also wondered if the single command really worked, as we said so many times. The only command that is a concept that seems ethereal, but that is a concept of absolute guarantee of the operation of an emergency service. The only command that was discussed was precisely the other day on the day in which we analyzed the fifteen years of the Prestige disaster, and that the single command model even in that field is not fully guaranteed. One-mandated problems that we also lived unfortunately in the Angrois accident. I mean, we can't let catastrophes go, because in later times it's where we have to make cold decisions, but decisions that are powerful so that when another catastrophe returns the Emergency and Civil Protection System in Galicia will be able to give those answers. We asked questions — as we know — about the level of emergency activation, precisely the interrelationship also between forest and urban fires, the allocation of operators on Sunday 15 in room 112, or really the integrated operation of technology platforms 112, 085 or even in different aspects of 061. We also recalled how the different European standards insist in a categorical way on the integrated approach and on the comprehensive approach to the single number of emergencies, and how we precisely demanded compliance with the Galician Emergency Act itself in 2007, which insists on this basic principle. We also pointed out, as I said before, that the fragmentation of the intervention, both of Junta and Seaga, of Trapsa, of local entities or of privatized services, which do not sufficiently guarantee a comprehensive response with a single command in the model of emergency in Galicia. And that we can even look at the models that are incorporating other autonomous communities — we cited the cases of Valencia, the Basque Country, Catalonia or Madrid — as they are carrying out processes of unique organic and functional allocation of all emergency operations. And that is why I would insist and urge again that we should receive in this Chamber a report from the Galician Civil Protection Commission, where the assessment of all these circumstances is done. We need, as I said, precisely not so much, that, too, an analysis and a review of the Emergency Map, but above all working towards a unique and public model of emergency services. On all these issues, we will support today's motion at Marea. This presents a number of operational initiatives that we consider absolutely equally essential, both in terms of the homogenisation of working conditions and in terms of operating conditions of fire services. And here we have precisely put forward initiatives in budget amendments on forest workers' scales, we have tabled a number of amendments to budgets, also for the improvement of fire-fighting parks precisely, and we also, of course, support all operational measures that guarantee better allocation of resources from the point of view, above all, of public management, both in the operations of the 112 and the operations of the 061. Because I hope that this time the Presidency Council will plan the transfer from 061 to the Road in any other way than what happened with 112. To conclude, we have provided two amendments to add, which try to complement this initiative and this motion of En Marea with more strategic positions, as is, firstly, the need to study in a way would be the correct technological integration of different emergency platforms and, secondly, to set up the necessary working groups, I do not know whether on the basis of the Committee on the Fires, but we must work in this direction to carry forward an analysis of how to have a unique public model of emergencies in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u149	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. For BNG it is essential to address the issue of emergencies with an integral approach, which contemplates all emergencies and clearly differentiates two issues: On the one hand, the daily, daily response to emergency situations, correcting all the precariousness and lack of means that are being shown successively before responses to situations that are being routinely given, beginning with the critical point that is the operation of 112, where we have already said many times that there are continuing failures, both on the computer platform and in the communications system, for example, not to mention the situation of maritime rescue after all the accidents and disasters that are occurring. And then there's another question, which seems to us, of course, more fundamental and important, which is the answer to exceptional emergency situations, which is a slow, uncoordinated and ineffective response, and history is there to prove it. Fandicosta, Angrois, the 2006 fire crisis, the Prestige or the recent fire crisis of October 15th, have highlighted all the failures, discoordinatement and chaos that usually occur when there is an exceptional situation. And that is evidenced by the structural failure of a Greek emergency system, which is characterized, firstly, by disordination, because there is a lack of that single operational command, by fragmentation and multiplicity, both of competences and services — only in the extinction of forest fires there are up to seven different services acting — by precarious labour and means, and also by privatization, which is turning into a private business, which is a fundamental public service, both in the field of ambulances and 112, firefighters, forest fires or maritime rescue. And then it is also evident that something we have already said in the debate of Mr. Rueda's appearance, which is the gross non-compliance of the law — as has been said here today — with the 2007 Emergency and Civil Protection Act, when the Galician Council itself does not meet the needs and mandates of that law that should already be in force in 2010. For example, the regulations for firefighters and voluntary workers, which were to be approved in 2009, or the homogenisation of benefits and working conditions throughout the territory of fire protection and extinction services, which were to be approved in 2011. In addition, we have also made the need to review and update all action plans and protocols, particularly with regard to the training, information, protection and self-protection of the population. In addition to being evidenced in the past, there was a lot of evidence in the past fire crisis of October 15, when the entire system of communication and operational response on the ground failed sharply. And we also draw attention to the fact that with climate change, with the mountain situation, with the urban environment, this kind of crisis, these kinds of disasters are going to continue to produce and more seriously, and we must take note, we must take action. Also of the need for functional and operational integration in the new building of the Road, which cost 8 million euros and which is semi-balary, which is a true expenditure and dilapidation of means and resources. And, therefore, it is necessary to integrate and join all the services and coordinate them effectively and end that tayffic kingdom in this area. In conclusion, what we propose at the BNG is a profound and structural change of the Greek Emergency System, going towards a Greek system with full competence in our country in all areas related to emergencies and rescue, including maritime rescue. Secondly, a public system, with professional and wage approval. Thirdly, a universal system that enables the effective coverage of the entire population and the whole territory. Fourthly, an integral system that effectively addresses all emergencies. And finally, a system coordinated with a single operating command, which we haven't had until now. It's, therefore, a very serious matter. We're talking about a central and vital service for a country such as the saving of goods and, above all, of human lives. And, therefore, we ask that this obsolete system, this precarious system, this ineffective system, be overcome, to convert emergencies into a private business — all this is at the service of privatization and private business — by a public system that guarantees a faster, more effective and safer response to emergencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u151	Thank you, Mr Bará. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, in the past full, the Vice-President of the Board and Head of Emergency Affairs came to report on the new emergency coordination proposals. He made three very serious, very concrete proposals, and, as far as I can see, that part of the bench didn't listen to them, I don't know if the speakers were ruined. I'll repeat it: First, the elimination of the dark areas of the Emergency Map in two areas: one, in the comarcaalization of fire stations in the big cities and two, the creation of new services for emergency care in the deficit areas of the cities. Secondly, actions on emergency care groups, on the one hand, by determining the firefighter management model and on the other hand by reviewing the funding, competences and approvals of GHGs, and, thirdly, by providing means for groups of civil protection volunteers. Finally, empowerment of the new Road Coordinator Center, which you want to dismantle. Because I don't know very well, sometimes critical: that it doesn't work, that it's not worth anything; other times they say it has to be a public service, that it is; they say of direct management, which is what you propose. That you approved the 2007 Emergency Act, in which two forms of emergency management appear: directly and indirectly. And where they rule, because, of course, you come here with a speech telling the Board to do a public service, which it is, of direct management. Man, but you rule or co-govern in three of the four deputies of Galicia. What are they doing where they rule? Why don't they put that innovative, so modern system there, that it's not obsolete, that it's not a business for the companies, Mr. Bará, why don't they do it in the Deputy of Pontevedra? why don't they do it in the Deputy of the Crown where they vice president? Because if you're going to talk to them, put headlines in the media, lie to the firefighters telling them it's a much more effective, efficient and effective system. But why don't they do it directly? Junta has already stated this, the vice president has come to this chamber on several occasions to say that Junta is committed to maintaining the same funding as it is now maintaining. You said they'd ask for economic reports, you-you. These economic reports should only be known in Marea, because it was the only one who presented an amendment in the budgets that rose to EUR 130,000 for the consortiums of firemen. What's the matter, Mrs. Solla? Is that what it costs the elderly to do directly management? And I ask him, and do direct management of the 061 cost nothing more than what he's costing right now? Because for 112 and 061 you in the amendments don't increase a single euro; you look good at what the board sets for 112 and 061. So tell us what's good for you because in the amendments, you reflect it. Mrs. Solla says I don't know what business is. Mrs. Solla, the adjudication of the new computer platform was done in a public contest and with maximum transparency. The People's Party Government doesn't work like the municipal governments of the Podemos tides, which divide contracts and then give them to the friendly companies or those En Marea Signers you know well. If you want me to tell you names, Mr. Sánchez, that you know them very well and family relationships of kinship and so on. Don't worry that everything will be over, there are still two years left for the municipal elections and everything will be over, Mr. Sánchez. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But, look, it's clear that the contest can be presented who considers it this way. An invitation to tender to be issued at a staff member's recruitment table. Do you doubt the impartiality of technicians? Do you doubt the impartiality of officials? Not us. Well, there's no politicians at the recruiting table, Mrs. Solla. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So stop saying they're given to friendly companies. Friends of whom, two staff members of the recruitment boards? Well, we say, Your Honor, the emergency service continues to be a pioneer in Galicia. And in fact, there are autonomous communities that are copying us, and you know that. For example, in Balearics, the School Alert programme has been copied from the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which has a European seal of excellence. The whole emergency service for you works fatal, but, for example, in Asturias the same weekend the call center collapsed. But how will the 112 not collapse on a weekend when the normal and usual weekend gets five thousand calls — two thousand five hundred on Saturday and two thousand five hundred on Sunday. And it turns out that this weekend you received twelve thousand calls, essentially on Sunday night, and there were minutes that entered more than a hundred calls? Look, even if there were 50 workers in 112, or if I doubled that template, we would be able not to have collapsed 112, as if it had collapsed — I insist — that of Asturias. But, of course, as governed by the Socialist Party, Asturias does not criticize anything at all, but if we criticize that of the People's Party, because those of the People's Party... we already know that you have to look for a common enemy to stay united. I understand your difficulties to be able to talk to each other and reach an agreement. Now, that's yes, as we have a common enemy, which is PP, in which we all agree. Well, listen, if you need the People's Party to stay united, welcome be the People's Party! [[Applause]] Look, so you mean to set up a dialogue table in the 061 transfer, you're the ones that don't listen, Mrs. Solla. You come to say you don't listen to people; you don't hear the government. The Government has already said several times on this camera that this dialogue table will be set up prior to the 061 transfer. But, look, I dare say do what the People's Party Government does...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u153	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u154	...in the transfer of 061 you will criticize him. You're going to make a beautiful case of that matter, and if you don't, in time. Because you're the ones who make banner and headline policies. And that's not serious for us. I insist: There are clear, serious and concrete proposals that the Vice-President of the Union has made here in the past. You don't care. What's the matter, Mrs Solla, you don't agree with any of the proposals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u156	What did you do here, Mr. Vice President? Then say it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u158	We, of course. And if they don't agree with them, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u160	...but where you rule...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u162	...don't do what you ask me to do here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u164	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the support of the BNG and the PSdG. As for the amendment, we're going to accept the second point on the first one. We have previously spoken that we do not agree that this is the right time to address a subject that is very sensitive, such as the unification of numbers, which in this case would be 112 and we understand that 061; I do not know, surely also 085. Because, as I have already moved to the previous plenary session, in which, in fact, we have made the appeal to Mr Rueda, the two numbers due to the shortage of staff are usually collapsed. The case of 061 is taking regular health consultations, and in the case of 112 we already see the problems. Obviously, there's a work topic in this respect because we understand that the Galician Union would want to exclude workers and workers. But there is a theme of inoperivity, because I see that we have here today, that this initiative and all the others that we have brought to the opposition groups will not be supported. And without more personnel and without coordination, of course, assuming that merger would probably mean a larger collapse than we're already living. What would have happened — you would have questioned Mr. Rueda the other day — if during the fire strike the 061 was completely saturated too? As he was, by the way, because the President of the Council of Galicia irresponsibly called people to call 061 in the face of the collapse of 112, unfortunately. [[Murmurs.]] And finally, it seems that the spokesperson of the People's Party — we hear his intervention — has to interfere with the debate and talk about other things, other administrations, trying to get into an absurd debate, or that he has no idea what we are talking about, which is quite likely, or, secondly, that he has nothing to say because unfortunately, he has not spoken about the points of the proposal we moved from En Marea. We understand that for the People's Party, once again, it's all right, everything is perfect, and Mrs Prado seems to be -- I don't know whether there are speakers or not here -- that maybe she hasn't read the initiative and has no ability to think about it. But unfortunately, what we see in the initiative — and we have moved all the time we brought this matter here — is that the Galician Union continues to violate a law that has been approved for ten years, that firefighters in this country continue without homogenizing the working conditions, that the service is precarious and that the service is not public. And if you want other administrations that are not the Council of Galicia to assume responsibilities for their incapacity, Mrs. Prado, to derogate from the Montoro Law, to allow municipalities and deputies to provide public services and stop moving here that they will not assume their responsibilities. Articles 11, 12 and 13 of the Galician Emergency Act are not met, and you have no ability to pronounce what we bring here today. I hope they assume the responsibility of negotiating with 061, because they're moving a terrible situation in which there are workers who are going to charge 25% less because you've privatized the service, and above all the workers at the station have to endure an unnegotiated transfer. As they did irresponsibly, even the Labour Relations Council heard you negotiating. They assume their responsibilities. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. We proceed to vote on the motions. We begin by voting on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas. It was stated that he accepted point 1 of the Socialist Party's amendment. We therefore vote this motion. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. José Manuel Lago Peñas, on the realization by the Galician Union of the necessary actions to prevent the closure of Conservas Esteiro. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 36; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u166	We are now voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is not accepted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Point voting? Can you separate or...? [[Pause.]] How many points? [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Now I don't have how many points the motion has. So, do we vote together on 1 and 2 and the others separated? [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? I didn't understand. First one? [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, then it's three votes. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, come on, let's go. Sorry, if you accept, of course. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Of course. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, that's why, but I'll give you the fact that they're so together they'd have already talked about it. [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I say, don't I? [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, you accept it, don't you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u167	Yes, yes, we do. There's no need to talk to anyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u168	Thank you. Well, then we are voting, first of all, on point 1 of this motion. We vote. Vote on point 1 of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the situation of health personnel of the Galego Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u169	We voted for the second point of the motion. We vote. Vote of point 2 of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the situation of health personnel of the Galego Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u170	We vote the rest of the points. We vote. Vote of points 3, 4 and 5 of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the situation of health personnel of the Galego Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 26 votes against, 36 abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u171	Then, at the end of the vote, we suspended the session until sixteen and fifteen minutes. Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's now. We voted for the motion of the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Eva Solla. The second point of the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. from In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the policy of the Government of Greece in matters of emergency care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes in favour, 36. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u172	And now yes, we'll stop until sixteen and fifteen minutes. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u173	Let's restart the session. Comparison of the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination, on his own request, to inform the beginning of the course 2017-2018 in non-university education in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u174	To formulate the intervention you have the floor Mr. Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u175	Good afternoon. As I did in the past legislation, it seems logical that, once a reasonable time has passed since the beginning of the course, you would go to this House to expose the situation in which the teaching of Greek is found. That is why I am here today, the truth is that in a few later dates of those initially planned — there were two plenary sessions with specialized fire appearances — but I have already mentioned three plenary sessions, in response to an initiative by one of the opposition groups, an explanation by En Marea: to come with specific data and convinced that it is good to talk about the education system in Parliament. Well, right now, we can have a more stable view of what was the start of the 2017-2018 course, and above all what is a priority for counseling. We're going to report on the work we've been doing, too, to consolidate and improve the favorable evolution that the teaching of Galicia has experienced in recent years. I want to start by offering a view of the situation of the system in this 2017-2018 course. Each school course involves caring for a large number of people and enabling enough human and material resources. It's a responsibility and an obligation to achieve the best for our boys and girls. This statement is not new, but it must be very present in order to assess reality in its fair measure. The 2017-2018 course started normally. I would say — without any kind of self-comprehensibility — with good or very good note, since the incidences were minimal and were resolved in time and form. We are talking about that every month of September everything has to be in place to meet the educational needs of nearly 400,000 pupils — specifically 383,200 pupils and students — of different levels of non-university education at different points in the Galician geography. Galicia has more than 32,700 students in special education, primary education, ESO and bachelor's degree, to whom nearly 51,000 students are added from a Vocational Training cycle. The number of students in artistic and sports teachings must be added: music, dance, plastic arts, design, sports teachings, which exceed 11,500 enrolled. In addition to meeting and training this number of pupils and students, it is also necessary to address the coordination of basic complementary services such as school transport; a fully free school transport that uses approximately 90,000 pupils and students from 784 public centers. In turn, the Council signed agreements with 13 entities to facilitate the transport service to 355 students with special educational needs. Galicia is the most autonomous community you invest in in this service in Spain, which, as you know, this year began to lend itself in a shared way on some routes. The system is functioning normally, the school transport is shielded, and the incidences of the start of the course have been resolved with speed. A school luncher based on family income payment is also a great complementary service. In the 2017-2018 course, the number of users of this service is 74,828 students; i.e. 2,193 users more than in the 2016-2017 course, adding the dining rooms managed directly by the Council, the Anpas and the municipalities. The Board manages 434 dining rooms, with more than 60,000 users; directly, 302 dining rooms, and indirectly, through companies that serve menus with all guaranteed quality standards, other 132. For their part, the Anpas are responsible for 134 dining rooms and the municipalities of 42. In addition, the Council signed agreements with 12 entities to facilitate the dining service to 436 students with special educational needs. It is also significant an important element of support for families such as solidarity freeness for the acquisition of textbooks and school materials. In this course 2017-2018 a total of 27,868 tips were granted for the purchase of textbooks, and 99,167 tips for the comparison of school materials. Furthermore, the solidarity fund of textbooks distributed a total of 636,308 manuals, of which it was necessary to acquire only 12.6%. Finally, the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order arrived this year, with the program of solidarity freeness for textbooks, almost 137,137 pupils; well through the background, 109,269, well of aid, 27,868, in a joint investment of approximately EUR 12.4 million. The previous three lines of the donation, contribute to the fact that the start of the course is, without a doubt, smoother for families, and much more equitable and just socially. Ladies and gentlemen, we have in Galicia a network of more than 1,380 educational centres, most of which are 100 per cent public, in particular 1,091 centers. That is, about 8 out of every 10 are totally public, centers that offer training to 75% of the student enrolled in our community. As a result of state legislation promoted by the Socialist Party, the network of public-funded centres also includes the concerted. Thus, concerted education responds to approximately 25% of the needs of school squares, dedicated to a budget of around 11%. In addition, it should be noted that almost 90% of the total budget for concerts is intended to pay the salaries of teaching staff in a delegated payment scheme, as well as additional staff in special education units. In this 2017-2018 course there are a total of 3,913 concerted units, 21 more than in the previous course, which provide educational service to around 86,000 students. In any case, it should be noted that the dynamics of the increment of concerted units have decreased significantly in recent years. In fact, in eight years, the current Government of the Union has increased by 77 the number of concerted units, while the Bipartite, in four years, has increased by 213. On the other hand, the Council reviewed, like every year, the enrolment of public schools at all levels; a regular process that, like every year, takes place before the start of each course, in order to adapt the number of units to that of pupils and students enrolled in each educational center. According to the final enrolment data, in this school, 9 unit schools were no longer provided, due to the low level of student in these schools. It must be noted that the council maintains, one more year, the same criterion for suppressing them; that is, it contains 5 or fewer students. As with each course, the reorganization of units within the educational centres was also addressed; as is usual, it was carried out depending on the student's increase or decrease. Even so, units have been enabled for the alleged breakdown of classes when there is a punctual or circumstantial increase in the number of students and students. The Council therefore organised an efficient and efficient use of resources, always taking into account the educational needs of the centres. By the way, in speaking of this school course, I would like to mention that, despite their criticisms and accusations of closure of educational institutions, the reorganization of several centres promoted by the Council is functioning without an incidence. Their hopes, bad wishes, chaos and prejudices to the student have not been fulfilled, and educational activity in these centres is developing as appropriate, with good integration of students and teachers from the merged centres. I've said it in this House: Time is always the best judge, and always points out who was politically lying and who wasn't. Also, ladies and gentlemen, every start of the course is the mission of the Educational Administration to provide suitable facilities to meet the needs of the educational community as a whole. In this regard, I think it is no less important to highlight the important effort made in the execution of works during the summer months, and even in this course, to improve the educational centers of Galicia. Investment in infrastructure amounts to almost 28.7 million euros, in a total of 617 works in the teaching centres of 180 Greek municipalities, more than half of the total municipalities. We found ourselves with multi-year splits for large-scale interventions: the new CEIP of Culleredo, the new IES of Soutomaior, the new pavilion Felipe de Castro, of Noia; the expansion of CEIP The Mercedes in Lugo, of the Official Language School in Ourense, of the IES Francisco Asorey de Cambados, of the IES Laxeiro de Lalin, or in Vigo do Rodríguez Castelao and of the IES de Teis, among others. As you know, as a result of the recent attendance of budgets for 2018, the Council will continue to invest in the improvement of Galician educational centres to contribute to their modernization, as real spaces of learning and coexistence. As a complement to this so far, I would like to reiterate in this Parliament our gratitude and our conviction regarding the fundamental role of teachers working in the education system. We understand that staff needs are covered again by another course. Galicia has professional and committed teachers, to whom we are very grateful — Galicia is very grateful — for her giving and for her efforts. One more course, the Council has a teaching staff framework that respects the post catalogue set by the Government of Bipartisan in 2007. One more course, we have a teaching staff that is approaching 30,300 professionals, and that is, in any case, adjusted to the real demands that appear at the start of the course. And as announced in this House, the Council is working to realize a wide public job supply, which will cover the total retirement rate and will also enable employment stabilization in the education sector. We will comply with the stabilisation agreements both state and autonomous, so that we will reduce the already low rate of interinternity in education by itself, since Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, is the community that has the lowest rate of interim teachers in the Spanish ensemble. Once the data on services, students, centres and teachers have been offered, it seems appropriate to present the situation of the educational model launched in Galicia over the past few years. In particular, as one more course the programs promoted by the Council are counting on the participation and involvement of the educational community. A few months ago, in particular at the last plenary session last June, I came to this House and I went forward that in this course 2017-2018 we would present to society a new impetus to the multilingual model, a new strategy of digital and technological education, an improvement of coexistence in classes and also a strengthening of vocational training. Today, when the course has been running for more than two months, we can analyze how this commitment has been realized. Plurilinguism. In this course, we reinforce the commitment to enable language learning to be accessible to the whole of the student of Greece, regardless of their social, territorial or economic situation. The Union has activated for this course the Greek foreign language strategy EDUlingue 2020, whose fundamental objective is to extend multilingualism to all educational stages and to make it easier for students and students to believe their level in foreign language at the end of the stage. Until the past course, plurilingual teaching was implanted in the primary and secondary stages, but from this Iraqi course extending to childhood, bachelor's degree and vocational training. Today, Galicia has 322 multilingual centres; 83 centres for the first time extend multilingualism to children; 400 also for the first time introduce multilingualism to Bachelor; and there are 12 cycles of multilingual vocational training in seven centres in Galicia. Bilingual sections amount to 4.145, 231 more than the previous course. And we have 550 auxiliaries of conversation in this course. Ultimately, multilingualism as a foreign language learning strategy means giving students more opportunity in the future and promoting equal opportunities. Digital education. Under the Galician Strategy for Digital Education, Eurodigital 2020, the Government of Greece develops actions aimed at equipping equipment that enables digital classes and developing digital training with the use of content and the digital book, as well as the reinforcement of digital and scientific-technology competition and STEM studies. The aim is to equip the student of Greek knowledge, skills, skills and skills to manage in an increasingly digital, technological and scientific world. In this course, Galicia's teaching strengthened the Digital Book Project by adding 60 new centers, with an increase of 50%, to reach a total of 154 educational centers supported by public funds. The provision of digital equipment benefits nearly 12,000 students, from 5th primary to 2nd ESO, who are receiving a completely digital teaching. Within the framework of the Digital Project developed by Amtega and the Council, the Board incorporates in this course a third provider of digital content for subjects that are shared between the fifth primary and second secondary ESO. We've already solved the competition, and once I've solved the bidding process, we'll add a quarter to the English subjects of these educational levels. Also in the bidding process is enabling a space for teachers to develop their own digital educational content. There are currently 3,000 available to the teacher, and we want to significantly expand the device of materials created by the teachers themselves. A specific training plan is developed in schools for teachers on the digital book. For access to the digital book to be effective between December and January, the progressive distribution of approximately 14,000 computers for students, touch computers and converted into tablets will be carried out, and 2,000 new computers for teachers, which will renew the equipment they currently have. And during 2018 100 percent of public primary and secondary schools will have at least 100 mega internet access, fruit in this case of the Galician Union Convention with the Government of Spain. Along with this, the Council brought out a roadmap to promote the so-called STEM vocations: science, technology, engineering and mathematics, such as the introduction of robotics in primary, one of the main innovations for this 2017-2018 course, which brings with it the staffing of specific kit centers. In addition, in this area, free configuration materials such as programming, robotics or digital identity — the latest in this course — as well as other specific actions: science club, STEM week, etc., were also launched, with the ultimate aim of fostering the scientific and technological spirit of the student. Co-existence. Living together in education centers is another strategic line of this board. For some time now, we've been committed to the need for further progress in this area to correct any harmful conduct that is detected. Unfortunately, zero risk in harassment or in problems of coexistence does not exist, but Galicia has plans of center-level coexistence and different protocols—transsexuality, against harassment or cyber harassment, TDH, autism, home care, etc.—to know how to act in each case. Last week, the Galicia School Convivence Council analysed the actions grouped into the Galician Strategy of Coexistence and cohabitation.gal, which is our roadmap on this subject. Through its 5 axes and 37 actions, the Strategy has been shown to be an element of planning and operation that gives coherence and security to educational communities. According to the 2015 macroeconomic survey – the biggest survey, which we know, that has never been done in an educational system in Spain and we would dare tell ourselves in Europe – we know that the situation in coexistence is positive in the centres of Galicia. This macroeconomic survey, 200,000 questionnaires and practically 20 million processed data give us very interesting and very significant data: about 85% of families report that their children have not had any conduct contrary to coexistence, or that more than 80 percent of families are satisfied with the centre at which their children attend. Still, it seems appropriate to assess the current situation to deal with the reinforcement of actions already established and the implementation of other news. The more real and objective the diagnosis is, the more successful the policies we implement on this earth can be. In the first quarter of 2018 we will face the realization of a new macro-questionary to test the situation of coexistence in the Italian education, which aims to update the data, both at Galicia level and at the level of each educational center. We intend to establish a biannual periodicity of this survey, which will allow us to take the pulse of coexistence continuously over time and to know its evolution. In order to have as broad a view as possible, the result of the new survey should also serve as a new diagnostic tool for the situation of co-education and the fight against gender violence, as well as for misuse or the risks of digital technologies. As you know, we also aim to boost and activate schools of parents and mothers as forums for debate, information and creation of frameworks of common action around education, where families also have a high role. In this case, Junta will provide the necessary infrastructure through the teacher training centres — the CCRs — as well as expert staff, and will enable a technology tool to store materials at the disposal of families. A catalogue of topics will also be proposed for discussion, either for families, for families and teachers or for schools themselves, which may propose those topics that they consider to be of interest to incorporate into schools. We are faced with a complex and very broad issue, in which we have to act the whole of society and of our own families, but which must also be addressed from the educational system. We have a path along which we continue to work and what always, gentlemen, there are things to do. And the German student is being trained on equality and in the need to refuse and combat gender violence through transversal content in the curriculums of free configuration and project work. The teacher, through the Training Plan set in motion by the Council, will thus have an online specific module on coexistence, equality and inclusion that will allow him to have a basic training on this subject, with an equivalent of 20 hours. The actions linked to coexistence, with an integral and cross-sectional view, are also collected in the first Equal Plan of Education Centres, developed in collaboration with the General Secretariat of Emigration. Well, as part of this plan, I can tell you that we will develop an education protocol against gender violence in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which develops the general institutional protocol to address gender violence. As a development of the Equality Plan, we will activate a new equality portal that includes resources and guidance to promote co-education in centres. As you see, we are taking new steps in the commitment to equal opportunities and gender, in order to promote the construction of a new formative model capable of covering equally the female and male; a contribution from teaching that must necessarily be strengthened from different areas: social, political, family, business, etc., languages, technology, coexistence and equality, and also a training for our young and young people adapted to Galicia's socio-productive reality. Current vocational training offers a solid general basis and a specialisation according to the labour market and practical knowledge of new technologies. One of the keys to these studies is the connection between the educational world and the productive world, which is to ensure that training at the educational center is combined with training at companies. Today — and after the work that has been carried out in recent years in a genuine silent revolution — Greek vocational training is quality, dynamism, innovation, employability, and a possibility to continue to be formed throughout life; that is, it has prestige. This has been achieved through measures such as the adaptation of 100 cycles to the development of Galician social and economic fabric and its needs; through the consolidation of a network of business farmers in the educational centres themselves that offer the opportunity to create their own businesses and businesses to pupils; the implementation of foreign languages — in particular English — in vocational training in a progressive manner — we have begun in this course; and, among other things, through the extension of the FCTs — from training in work centres — that this year reaches and covers about 15,200 pupils. In order to continue to foster a closer relationship between the educational centre and the company, the Council is firmly committed to dual vocational training. At the moment more than a hundred companies are involved in this project, some of the country's most comprehensive ones, because it is a form of training that alters learning in the educational centre and in the company, which promotes the inclusion of young people and responds to the needs of the productive sectors. We need to keep going deep. In this new course there are 29 new cycles, there are 2 double titrations, and we're still working with the entrepreneurship team to trust in this type of educational training. And I want to resume the importance of FP as an opportunity to connect the educational world with the productive world, since this makes it easier for the student of vocational training to get to a job when he finishes his studies. In Galicia we have a good employability rate, about 80%, for vocational training students. This, of course, is one of the keys to the employability of graduates of vocational training: the implementation of cycles adapted to the national catalogue of professional qualifications and also the offer of cycles itself, sometimes adjusting it according to real demand, and others opening it up and innovating with new teachings. Year by year, the Council is able to make an offer of attractive cycles that allow new students to join, to the point that this course has almost a thousand students and students more in the Galician vocational training than in the previous year. By way of example, I want to quote some of the new cycles that are running this course. In Cambados, the top cycle of Vitiviniculture. In Pontevedra, the highest degree of Gender Equality Promotion, the first in Galicia and only in Galicia. In Monforte de Lemos, the highest grade in childhood education. In Mondoñedo, in this case with a dual modality, the average degree of gardening and flowering. In Vilalba, the middle cycle of Attention to People in Dependency, and so we could quote more. We believe that we must continue to work on this line, so this year we will strengthen our work to strengthen FP in Galicia, with the objective that it will be useful for people and for Greek society. Given the need for modernization and technology of these teachings, we are working on a vocational training strategy that will pursue an integral vision from the Galician Union and will also encourage the participation of the productive sectors. But the Greek educational model is also supported in other actions that are giving good results, both in the improvement of reading understanding, fundamental to ensuring learning, and in the achievement of more equitable and inclusive teaching. Thus, it is worth mentioning in particular the LÍA Plan of School Libraries for the period 2016-2020, which deepens the need to provide educational centres of useful, stable, sustainable and according to the needs of the 21st century. Among the actions programmed under the LIA Plan is the fact that 646 educational centres across Galicia are already participating in the known Plambe, Plan for the Improvement of School Libraries, after this course there were 36 new incorporations to this initiative, with an investment of approximately €1.3 million. The Improving Plan seeks to encourage and promote the development of school library projects that seek to dynamize this space as a resource centre for reading, information and learning. Even so, the libraries integrated in Plambe are working on designing and developing programs for the acquisition of information and media skills, as well as integrating new technologies and the concept of multiple literacy in addressing the student's reading training. On the other hand, this library model fosters an inclusive approach to the whole of the students. The Council wants to focus on the importance of libraries offering opportunities to all students, especially students with specific educational support needs. Therefore, under the Inclusive Library initiative, we will activate several initiatives focused specifically on supporting libraries of special education centres or those centres that have special education units created or enabled, so that they can count on the resources needed to meet the needs of their student. And, of course, we have to assess to its proper extent the fact that today the whole of the Greek education system is the most inclusive of all Spain. In Galicia, 1 out of every 10 professionals in education are specialists in caring for diversity. According to the latest statistics of the ministry, Galicia is the autonomous community that has the highest percentage of pupils with special educational needs integrated into regular centres; in particular, 91.9% of students with special educational needs is integrated, which favors equal opportunities in teaching and also favours, and gives, authentic social justice. I want to finish this first intervention by mentioning the current situation of ABAU because of the importance it has for a very significant number of Thursdays. For this course, i.e. ABAU 2018, ABAU's summons will have virtually no changes, except for some technical nuance. She'll be on her exam in June and she'll be on her exam in September. There are days already announced, 12th, 13th and 14th June and 12th, 13th and 14th September. If we have changes at ABAU 2019. As you know, recently the Council, together with the ICG, we agreed for the year 2019 before the month of July to carry out the extraordinary test, which had been carried out in a traditional way in September. In this way, it corrects a dysfunction, since the student who passed the extraordinary test of September faced a series of difficulties. The first one, which came to colleges with the already started classes, and that was detrimental to the student and made it difficult for the teaching organization to attend classes. In addition, this also allows for a better organization in families and offers improvements to all that has to do with family reconciliation. As is logical, the Council will work to adapt the calendar of the extraordinary test for the 2nd Bachelor's degree student to the dates scheduled for the completion of the access test, in such a way that the non-university and university teaching calendars are accommodated. In addition, it will work to get the three universities to start classes on the same date, which will be set on the second week of September. In other words, the ABAU of the year 2018 is almost as it is, in ABAU 2019 if there are any changes, moving forward to July the extraordinary test that has been carried out in a traditional way in September. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the Greek education system enjoys good health and remains active in adapting to the new challenges that every day emerges; challenges that need to be addressed with an innovative perspective, with planning and with courage, with a ultimate objective: to have a quality, equitable education system that gives opportunities and is socially fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u176	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u177	Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, too, Counselor. You started the intervention explaining for the delay in your appearance. We have to keep in mind that we are virtually at the door of the first quarter evaluation, and I was also reviewing the last time you were here, talking about the start of the school course on the occasion of an interpellation presented by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea that you had — and I quote textually — of "extemporaneous" because we were on November 7 and we were already well referred to the course. I wouldn't know how to qualify his appearance today, I say, at the doors of the first evaluation, to speak of the beginning of the academic course. For our band, you know we're always happy to come to Parliament and be able to debate with you on the situation of the Greek education. You'd make a data relationship, you'd have figures, but you've forgotten some. I'm going to try them, in particular with regard to the abolition of units and the abolition of centres, because, contrary to what you mean, the centres have indeed been closed. Emilio Navasqués — we will not tire of repeating it — has not opened the door again in this academic course, and that is to close. You can put the ties you want, that's close. 39 units have been closed, and they have been destroyed with these 39 units, after changes in the staff frameworks, 53 jobs in the 2017-2018 academic course, to which 64 schools have to be added in the last six years, and the abolition in the public of 437 units. We believe that this should also have been objected, in his exposure, at least from a brief reference. You also referred — something that has already advanced us in the Committee on Budgets, in the Commission 3rd — to this public job offer that you are planning to approve by 2018 and which they say will end with the percentage of interimity. You always breast-feed and pumped, in addition, proud that you have the lowest percentage of interinity in the Spanish state. What you haven't just mentioned is that when the People's Party came to Galicia in 2009, the rate of interinternity in public education was less than 5%, and today we're at more than 13%. This is one of the consequences of the cuts accumulated since 2010 in public education and, in particular, also of the replacement rate imposed by the Spanish Government for many years for these public job offers. A replenishment rate that remains — that is what you reported at the sectoral table of 30 November the Government of the Spanish State — for those oppositions of 2018. We have said it in that 3rd Committee, in that Committee on Budgets, and we have repeated it again today: an agreement is being reached with a rate of 100 per cent replacement, which will only allow jobs to be recovered according to retirements, and we believe that this is a valid result of the cuts that have been accumulating in the field of teachers, teachers, in public education in this country for the last seven years. And it also prevents us from recovering — which is a fundamental issue — in the context of a process of supposed economic recovery, from higher budgetary resources for the Education Council over the next few years, jobs — I say — destroyed and, according to their own data, with those of the Education Council, would be located around 1,500 teachers in public education in our country. We insist that public job offers should not only cover retirements that occur, but we need to recover — if we are in the context of that supposed economic recovery — also destroyed jobs, because linked to these jobs is also the provision of a quality service, in the case of education, which is no less than a fundamental right. We have fewer teachers not only in the 2017-2018 course, I'm saying we've been accumulating that cut since 2010. We have greater provisionality and worse working conditions; a precariousness — I insist — which is directly reverting to the provision of the service. Because here we draw a lot from the professionalism and the absolute delivery of teaching staff, but what we have today in our country is that less personal is taking on equal or greater workload, and that — I insist — is a worsening of the working conditions of the thousands of people who are today teachers and teachers in public education in our country. That's why we have already told you from here that we do not accept that public job offer for 2018 does not contemplate the recovery of jobs destroyed in our country. [[Applause]] In addition, what we are seeing is that neither — nor are they involved in that speech of the alleged economic recovery — will they recover the labor rights cut out or lost by these personnel during the economic crisis, in vain, in support of that economic crisis: wage recovery, reduction of a teaching schedule that you have expanded from 18 hours to 20 hours in secondary school. Nor do you plan to reduce student ratios by class. I think I would once again mention that they are the best we can find in the Spanish State. We've said it many times here, one can't cheat solo in a demographic reality like Galicia, where the averages are somehow compensated because of the situation that hits rural education centers, but that doesn't prevent a lot of massification in centers especially in urban education. We insist — I said it in Commission 3rd and I want to repeat it now — that it is as important to have greater economic resources in the Council for this year 2017-2018 as for 2018-2019, as it is equally or most important to provide public education in this country by investing these budgetary resources to meet the needs and shortcomings of today, which — I insist — are the result of the cuts accumulated over the last seven years. In front of that, you also referred to the number of units and squares that funding the Government of Greece in private concerted, 25% you said. We are well aware of 25% of the squares, because it is 269 million euros for 2018 that will receive these private schools in concert, and in addition the public resources that have continued to count on since 2015, including — and we will not tire of repeating — the centres that discriminate against the student by sex. Despite the equality plans, despite the speech of co-education and gender equality in schools, it is funding itself with public money, with money from all of us, segregation and sexism in public centers that violate this equal teaching plan that you referred to in your intervention. Furthermore, as we knew last week in a report by the National Institute of Statistics, it's public funds representing 60.5% of the total income of these companies in our country, many of them directly linked to the Catholic Church, and it's 6 points above the Spanish average. Among these parties — I was going to enter one of the issues that we were most interested in for their intervention — they were also funded not only for private education, but also for the whole of public education in our country, this EDUlingual Strategy 2020, those plans for promoting multilingualism, basically English, in public education in our country. They expanded the introduction of English in child education in a country - we will not tire of saying - that the presence of the English language as the initial language of children is absolutely residual; only 18% say they learn to speak in our language. In addition, this extension to childhood education, not so much to the Bachelorate, especially to childhood education, has not been evaluated, as set out in Decree 79/2010 in the fifth additional provision, we will also speak today in this House to the thread of an initiative presented by the Socialist Party, the results of its application in primary and secondary, and of course without taking into account or at least the reality of the Greek socio-linguistic reality. What data do we have about the situation in which the different languages of the curriculum are found after these years of application of the decree, after reducing — in the best of cases, and on the role — the presence of the Greek to a third of the subjects? What academic results do they draw or study in those subjects given in English? What is the level acquired in the different language competences of the foreign language? And what is the level of language skills acquired in one's own language, if we take into account — and I take a real case — that a 2nd student at the ESO of an institute in the city of Coruña has only two subjects in the whole curriculum in the English language: the English language and geography. They come here and they give numbers of centers, of multilingual students. You just have to have a non-linguistic matter in English to receive such consideration. It's the case of those who joined this year and who take the English plastic distribution. But there's not a single assessment report, not one. And when this parliamentary group, as the Socialist Party is going to do today, asked that the evaluation reports be brought closer to this House, you voted against. What can result from a model based on equal treatment — and that, I insist on the role — of three languages in a clear and unequal situation, one of them not even environmental in our country? You, with that strategy of promoting the English language and the supposed empowerment of multilingualism in public education, have expressly renounced that since teaching a rebalancing effort can be made to protect and promote your own language, in clear social disadvantage over Spanish. In addition, they have done, using English in an alibi, a language — I insist — which is not even environmental in our country, and to the detriment of, of course, the language of our country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u179	...—it's over—and I'm going back to that case of what I was talking about, where only one subject, besides the Greek language, is taught in this country's own language. In Galicia there has been a paradigm shift since you returned to the Government and English has been used in this country as a Trojan horse to go to space in this country's own language. They conceive the plurilingualism entirely furnished by the conception that we believe should have, and that must always be developed with respect to linguistic diversity and starting from the language itself and diminished, not against it. For my own sake, nothing more for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Education Counsellor, very late. Mr. Fernández Gil, very late too because I'm sure he'll address me later. So, we're already ahead of time. Mrs. Rodil, look, at the risk that Mrs. Chao asks me what I ate today, I'm sure we're going to approve the GNP and we're going to know with certainty and clarity all the items related to improving the language competence of our student. So, that's why you're calm until at least half the afternoon, then we'll see how things go out. Counsellor, you make a late and verspertine appearance too, in anomalous way, but in any case within parliamentary time. The tower arrives at the supermarkets and you arrive at Parliament. It is not a very reasonable time-frame, as Mrs Rodil has already reminded you a moment ago, because you yourself qualify as extemporaneous questions from other parliamentary groups when they occur even in advance of this date on which we are, and frankly — I tell you with respect and with the appreciation you know I have — with the statistical summary you did it was much better than to send a power point presentation, which I put here in Parliament, and we saved to take note of as many figures as you mentioned. In any case, I'd like to refer, even though it was only a somber way, to the question. Look, it's good that the Bipartite existed as a political anomaly in an autonomous community like this. Well, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party has ruled in the state for a number of anomalous legislations too, because it's natural to rule the People's Party, everything else is against nature. But look, it's true that the regulations you referred to with regard to concerts are 1985, and therefore a Socialist Government, it's no less true that the People's Party had time to change these regulations if it considers it inadequate, if it is considered counter-constitutional. Let him know who is now leading the Foundation for Social Analysis and Study (FAES), which chaired the Government of the State between 1996 and 2004. He had eight years to amend that regulation, if he did not change it, why should the Socialist Government be permanently blamed on the rules of the concerts, which, by the way, derives from a constitutional mandate? Or are you going to become an anti-institutionalist now? Because if it is in the Constitution, it is necessary to develop it, and if it is necessary to develop it, it will have to be developed by the Government to which it belongs. But, I insist, you bring it down. You are in the State Government right now, don't say every time you come here "a socialist regulation" to refer to educational concerts. By entering the object of their appearance, the problem, regardless of all the figures he has given, is that the activity of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order, which, as has been recognized many times — because it is true — has an excess of competences and possibly had to be divided, has come down for two fundamental reasons. The first, derived from the weakness of the government of the state from which we are all aware, you are the first. And the second, because of the inability of his own counseling and his government to solve the multiple exclusive areas of competence; that is, they are the sole responsibility of this council. These aspects of State government such as the application of state legislation, the improvisation that has taken place in the past course — you say what you say, we all know it is true — with regard to the evidence of the bachelor's evaluation for access to the university of students, and although I do not know what nuances and differences will have, as you have just announced, those of this course, are the consequence of this permanent improvisation. But within this sphere of competence, within this very Parliament, within Parliament's committees, you have systematically rejected all the initiatives presented by this Socialist Parliamentary Group, which would be geared towards improving and eliminating this improvisation. Initiatives that had the only purpose, the only one!, to help improve the reality of our education system and provide it with greater stability. Within the field of competence itself — and I think it won't give me time — we could identify five great eyves that seem systemic in their educational policy. First of all, multilingualism, to which Mrs. Rodil referred. That famous 2020 Strategy, which is now known as 20-20, as we speak of the year 10 as if there was nothing before. We're not talking about the year 2010, we're talking about the year 10. But, well, it's a way of talking, it's a colloquial way of talking. The policy of multilingualism reveals its most atrocious face every time orders are published that allow new bilingual sections, new multilingual centres, new vocational training centres that provide the multi-FP program, the multi-FP star, etc. In fact, I understand that you have to publish logically in the Official Journal, but you cannot come here to draw on the participation figures of the centres in these programs, and much less of the competences that students can acquire, when in the case of primary and secondary education they receive more than one hour a week in a foreign language. In dual vocational training, of which you did not, of course, speak with great impetus, for something will be!, it turns out that this course offered you 18 training cycles. That's for not talking about the entire offer of vocational training in the autonomous community. Do you really think it is serious that you come to say in this Parliament that you have put into operation a new training cycle in Monforte or Mondoñedo? Is this relevant within the educational policy of the Education Council? You talked about digital books. It's a failure of that model. It's desirable, but it's a failure, you know. You know we have a serious problem or there's a serious problem in the centers with the functioning of the digital platforms. You know there's a problem with the availability of digital publishing of books in the centers, and that still exists. In addition, I am wondering, have you recently spoken to your colleague, Counsellor Rafael van Grieken — if the name is so pronounced — as Counsellor of the Autonomous Community of Madrid, who has just published a decree — rather so-called a law — which regulates the freeness of textbooks throughout the Community of Madrid for all students of compulsory teaching, and supplementary material? Look, Rafael, that model isn't very efficient, is it? It's much better than copying Galician. You talk to them and tell them: no, no, our model is this and it's the most efficient state. The Ombudsman tells us on a permanent basis, he sends us congratulations every minute because we have designed the most efficient model. The educational concerts I referred to earlier, you took them further — it's true that they weren't the only autonomous community in the state, or much less, that's true — of the six years of compulsory vigil in the case of primary education. You have no great dialogue with the educational community, as you saw here at the end of the course. It's true that they were unnecessary controversial, controversial with mere political intent, but as Mrs. Rodil just reminded you, some center is certain she never opened again. You have rejected the initiatives of this political group, this parliamentary group, to put into operation the mechanisms that would enable the school map to be re-defined in a consensual way, or as we would like to call it, the educational offer, ultimately, of the entire autonomous community. You refused initiatives to recover the working conditions of the teacher; that the repetitive student computed within the ratio also recently rejected it. You are inefficient and ineffective in managing spending, and they also have a way of budgeting a bit complicated to understand. In the budget execution box of the last quarter, that is, until September, it turns out that there are games, such as those related to artistic teachings, to which you, by the way, did not make the slightest reference in your first intervention, which should explain -- I hope you explain -- in the second because I think I am a collective sufficiently important as to make some reference to them. But it turns out that you took them out of their initial forecasts the 6 million euros coldhouse they had budgeted when the budget was approved in 2017, and the current credit is 6 million euros less. Where did they go? In the prevention of school dropout you have eliminated 3 million euros from the initial credit forecast, and yet you have a 55% commitment right now, at the end of the third quarter. Where did those 3 million go? And why do the remaining ones still have no execution, when the three-quarters of the course are completed, 50% of the budget? What's wrong? What is not relevant to the school drop-out prevention program? You tell me, if you do the favor, in the second intervention. By the way, you quoted it in a more or less indirect way, but I would like to express to this House the repeated lie to which you have been subjecting us to the continued matraque — a recently acquired and fashionable term — of the People's Party with which this autonomous community is the best student/professor ratio of the whole state. It's a lie! It was a lie and it's still a lie. It was the second autonomous community with the best ratio in the 2008-2009 course, the 2015-2016 course was the sixth autonomous community... yes, yes, I'm going to give it now... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u182	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u183	Mr President, I support — since it is fashionable — as proof...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u184	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u185	...the lack of real counsellor's tables extracted from the very unreliable statistical system of the Ministry of Education and Science, in case they want to consult. And this past course — which is the last of the data —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u187	...we were in the seventh place; i.e., a continuous retreat in his position. I will be delighted to pass this on to the rest of the parliamentary groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u189	...color copy of statistics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u191	...that I'm making reference...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u192	All right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u193	...for easier and better visualization.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u196	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u197	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. Look, I had to start my intervention by making a little confession to him. It is to see in the order of the day that you come to attend the plenary at your own request and make us tremble, because, as we saw in previous appearances, they all come accompanied by surprises, and they are not of the beautiful ones, they are not of the Christmas ones, they are often surprises of the bad ones, about which we read two days later in the newspapers that concern us. Because you come here, with apparent absolute normality, and then reorganization of centers -- they call you -- definitely cuts. So, I have to be honest with you right now, from the Marea Group where we're thinking about the fact that new cuts are going to be quiet today because of the fear that the educational community will return to the streets. We'll have to wait, then, two or three days to the newspapers, to see what they tell us. Because that's why your word and your reliability in this House -- I'm sorry to say -- are a little in question. I wish for once today I hadn't shut up and been clear about what their true plans for teaching this country are. I wish I had taken your time to tell us if they're gonna keep closing their classes. Well, from what he said, we figured it was -- because if they're not going to change the criteria, we figured they're going to keep closing. Of course, we're going to have more students and less classes, the result is pretty clear. We would also like to know whether teachers will continue to be absent, because this does not say anything, and ignoring the representatives of the teaching workers, which is the fact that — and to the facts we refer ourselves to — it seems so. We assume that they will continue to be ignored, as they have just done by changing ABAU dates without the opinion of the entire educational community. You only talked to one part, which is something, because usually you don't talk to anyone. So talking to one part is fine. But let's see that we aspire to talk to the entire educational community, because that's going to be political, that's going to be education advisor: talking to all the actors involved. But nothing new, this reminds us of the usual: making educational policy without the educational community, everything for the educational community without the educational community. It reminds us too much of everything for the people without the people, you know. The same thing happened with the closures, the same thing happened with the extinctions, the same thing with the calendar, with the tests, with the labor rights; finally, with the same thing. I mean, what we'd like -- and it shouldn't be so much asking -- is that when you come to this House you'd use it for something more than advertising. And also for something more than to repeat the data that any of us can read on the board page, because really -- it's not surprising -- we know. And that report you repeated here: how many teachers we have, how many classes we have, how many students there are enrolled at each level... all Members of Parliament and Members can consult from our home. Actually, what we'd like is for you to come here to do some political reading of them, or bring us some new political proposal. But no, you theoretically came here to talk about the start of the school course -- we're not going to tell you anything about the calendar, they've already told you -- and what you actually came to tell us practically the same thing you did two months ago. All right, we're not going to be the ones to tell you no, quite the opposite. No more councillors could take note! You're not the other thing, but coming to the House comes. Another thing is he's here to show up, he's actually coming to something else, but at least he's coming. That's right, what it comes to is, over and over again, repeating the same half-truths, fake data and manipulated statistics. That's not so good anymore. You probably know the popular phrase that says there are three kinds of lies: lies, big lies and statistics. And you know perfectly well that your favorites are the third ones, which are the ones we usually hear in this House when you come in. Of course, they're much better, but they're the most dangerous. And these are the statistical lies you use when you come here and talk about ratios. They just told you, Mr. Álvarez. It's not true, it's totally false, we don't have the lowest ratios in the state. But let's see that's not even the point. The question, the really important thing, is that they cheat when they talk about the middle class. Because, of course, when we add up to classes where there are six students with classes where we have 30, to say that there's an average of 15 is actually not to say anything. That's why we don't know anything about what's going on in the country classes. It's the tale of the people I've already told you here and then we're not going to repeat it, as we both know it! More data is needed. To know the reality of the education system we need other data. Because what can happen — and actually happens — is that there are people who eat a lot for people and other people who don't eat one; then, knowing that there are two chickens and two people who serve them recently. On the other hand, you who cheats are counting the ratios to ignore the student repeater. I told you in your previous appearance, but it's a matter that remains on the table and I'm still waiting — I'm naive — I'm still waiting for you to honor your position and give me some parliamentary explanation why you don't tell the student repeater on the ratios. Because if it's so important to tell the people we have in our classrooms what our needs are and you decide not to tell the repetitive student, something fails. So, please, I hope you take advantage of the shift and explain it, because if you don't explain it, it shows that you can't explain it. So, mind statistically, and above it manipulates the data, using data that knows perfectly that they don't correspond to reality. So, please don't dare go up here to say that all the needs are covered, in any case, say that the needs of the student who doesn't repeat are covered, because the repeater student you don't count it, for you it's as if it didn't exist. The only place in the whole state, it's unpublished! And I have to stop at the second class of statistical lies, that of school failure, which is another of your favorites. He didn't focus here today, but since he's one of his favorites, I think he also deserves some time. Have you reduced or failed school in Galicia? Yes, of course. And is this a specificity of the Welsh education system? No way. What's more, was it in Galicia where the most school failure has been reduced since you govern? No, neither. The reduction in school failure in Galicia was smaller than in other communities, also less than the average of the state. So, since 2009 -- and I took that year because it was when you got to the government, you don't look for another extraordinary reason -- the school failure has been reduced in Galicia by 10 and a half points; while in the state as a whole it did in almost 12 points. But we could also talk about Cantabria or Rioxa, which has been reduced to 16 and 14 points, respectively. I've got the data around here, in case you don't think they're the right ones. Because as he sometimes says we lie, because we have them around here. In the end, it's the usual thing, it depends on who we're dealing with. We aspire to compare ourselves to the best of the class. We aspire to always compare ourselves to those who are better than us, because comparing themselves with those who are worse is easy and doesn't say much about a government; or yes, but I don't know if it says the right thing. And there's still, Counselor, if there is! Because while in Galicia the dropout rate is 15.2%, in Cantabria it is 8.6% and in Euskadi it is 7.9%. There's work left, then. [[Mr Chao Pérez addressed the President of the Bureau.]] There's a lot of background noise all the time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u198	A little while ago. Yeah, yeah, there's a little bit, he's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u199	Yes. Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u200	I recognize it's a little annoying, but this is almost general too. I beg you if there can be some silence, because it is true that something is heard here. From here you hear everything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u201	Of course, I don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u202	I can play all your conversations from here. They listen to everything from here because they look here. [[Laughter]] But it's in the use of the word and I'd like you to respect who's in the use of the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u203	Thank you, President. And another question, is this data all that is? because this is very important. No, no, no, no. And here we're not talking about a statistical lie anymore, we're talking about a manipulation of interest. The diverting of students with more difficulty from the ordinary education system to the so-called basic FP is one of the ways they really have to hide the educational failure, and you didn't say anything about it. It's the same thing as the student repeater: they're out of town, they're out of town, they ignore it, they're out of statistics, and then they assume they're getting better. That's how anyone gets better! But that more than 40 percent of the students who go to the basic FP leave in the first course, that's not what they say. Let's continue with the absences, because we have many questions and very little time, so I'll try to focus on some of the most relevant ones. How is it possible, Mr Román, that you come to take pity on this Parliament when you have the dubious honour to finish presenting budgets with less investment in GDP? I mean, the economy is growing, but the money we have for teaching decreases. It turns out that when the People's Party reached the Government, investment in education was 4.62% of GDP. And according to your forecasts -- which are not En Marea's, according to yours -- this is going to stay for next year in a 3.59% burden; a figure that implies that we're still 5 points below the state average. But what's the worst, is that the Spanish State is already the fifth on the tail of all Europe, and the figure you put on the table just leaves us on top of Romania, which has 3.1%. This must be a lot of satisfaction, it must be that we're doing the things of wonder. The question, Mr. Román, is: how long? How long do they continue to despise public services? How long will they continue to cut our rights? Because the story of recovery, for the public classes, it's not going to happen. In public classes, the story of recovery is that, a story; it's a joke of taste. Tell us if there's going to be any change, because what it looks like is that the situation will only get worse. How else is it going to fulfill the 2018 budget program that has just presented Montoro in Brussels, which says it will cut 7,278 million, of which more than half will go to health and education? How will that affect the public education in English? Do you have any proposals? Do you have any plans to avoid further cuts on public classes? Because of this you said absolutely nothing. Do you know what the problem is? That the cuts aren't harmless, we've told him so many times, they have clear effects. We could talk about many of them, but today I'm going to focus on a particular case, although Mr. Fernández Gil doesn't like it, but it turns out that reality is made up of specific cases. And we think a counselor can't suck at all if all the specific cases aren't covered. Because the specific cases are the ones that live in the educational centers of the country, the specific cases are the ones that make up reality. You come here and get your chest out of the book lending system saying we have the best book lending system possible. You're lying! Falso! Routually false! Otherwise, he'll meet with the Santa Baia Anpa in Boiro. Your group has come to vote against the renewal of the textbooks to 120 boys and girls who are studying with books in 2009. They don't have enough books because, of course, these years have been ruining. But it's also books that are uncalibrated, with which it's impossible to supply them with others. And they're also books that are broken and they have to lend children to others, and they're studying with photocopies. And you come here and say we have the best system of books possible? It's a specific case, yes. [[Mr. Rodríguez González utters words that are not perceived.]] But our question is, how many specific cases like this are in the whole country? How many Greek educational centers have problems because they don't have enough books? Answer this question and then we'll discuss whether it's possible or not to say that in Galicia we have the best book lending system possible. Because, as we know, there are too many specific cases, Counsellor; and when there are too many specific cases, there are few reasons for optimism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u205	I'm going to finish. I was telling you, we have a lot of other questions, but I'm going to end up with one that directly affects the conception of the People's Party of the education system. The process by which the People's Party and its harsh educational law tried to merantiize public education, trying to transform an educational system into a system that is only formative for the service of market interests. A very specific question, when will philosophy return to the teaching centres? Because you committed yourselves here, at parliamentary headquarters, to do so now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u207	And we have doubts, because it seems like you have always missed the music, always have been left behind by the arts, always have been left by the philosophy. Let's not forget, Mr. Román, that it was the People's Party that expelled the philosophy of teaching centers, so we want to know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u208	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u209	...when he comes back. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u211	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Counsellor, if we can draw a conclusion from all the interventions we have heard from opposition groups so far, it's a very simple one: that the start of the course was good. The course started well because precisely the opposition groups spoke of everything but the course, which was the object of the summons. So that comes to say that the start of the course was good, a question that, on the other hand, is the logic and what corresponds to the work of a responsible administration. [[Applause]] Because, in the end, you were doing an intervention here to talk to us about the start of the course in the Autonomous Community of Galicia and what you did was to transmit the basic pillars in which you have to base a course from the perspective of administration: normality, certainty, predictability, security and transparency. Transparency, object, for example, of this appearance that we have here today. By the way, it was not only foreseeable that from a responsible administration the course would start well, but that it was also predictable the opposition argument to say that the appearance was a little late, because we're almost finishing the first evaluation. The predictability of which the opposition is also demonstrated in this case. And not always predictability is a negative concept, but in the case — as I said before — of a government that carries out political action predictability becomes a positive concept. You -- as I said before -- took advantage of the attendance to speak or repeat those questions that are constantly repeating about teaching in Galicia, trying to transfer to society this image that teaching in Galicia is a disaster, an image that no one buys but that you insist on selling again and again. If you want to go that way, come on! Of course, we, to do society a favor, what we have to talk to the reality of the system. It makes me very funny, I was listening carefully to Mrs. Chao and somehow slipped that theory that we're not going to allow reality to spoil our speech. That theory is a theory that repeats very much from En Marea and from the different opposition groups. Because he said, they're talking about calculating ratios. Of course, since you don't like the calculation of ratios, they say: we modify the calculation to adjust the ratio to our speech. No, that's what we have to do; that's to change reality so our speech won't spoil. Look, this is the other way around, we're here to talk about reality, to pass on to people what they're seeing and what they're living, because, ultimately, that's reality, what citizens see and what citizens live in, and they also have an opinion. We don't have to, from here, try to distort the vision they have of reality, because when we try to distort the vision that citizens have of reality, we find ourselves with which, at the moment that citizens think, they tell us they don't share our vision of reality. So, I'm telling you, I think we should put aside that prospect or that repeated tendency to try to shape reality around the speech, and I advise you -- I allow you to give advice -- that you have to do is articulate the speeches around reality. Having said this, I think we have to focus on what the counsellor spoke about in this audience, because the truth is there are important issues that have been coming out about how it works. The complexity of starting a school course, the magnitude of an administration, and, in this case, the magnitude of the Education Council, the number of schools, the number of teachers, the number of students, and how all these issues have to fit into that normality of what we were talking about before for society to live in a normal way the start of the school course. In this sense, complementary services such as transport, as dining rooms, such as the provision of textbooks have been set up and implemented. It is ultimately effective and effective use of resources, always taking into account the educational needs of the centres. Normality also in the organization of schools. There was a question that also turned out to be very curious within the interventions made by the different opposition groups, it was as they all remembered the fact that the center Emilio Navasqués, in Outes, is closed. True, it has always been said that the center Emilio Navasqués, in Outes, closed, but, however, what no one said about the opposition was why, while they repeated once and a thousand times that other schools in Galicia, specifically in the bridges, specifically in Ribadavia, specifically in the Porriño they were closing, today any of you can go there, go through the door and check that they are still open and continuing to teach. Why did they lie? Why did you lie when you knew this wasn't so? Sure, now they come here and talk about Emilio Navasqués, all right. But why don't they talk about the lie they've repeatedly repeated and intentionally been transmitting to Greek society at the end of the past course? [[Applause]] Look, there are a lot of questions -- as I said before -- in a course start, in a course startup appearance. He was also talking about the teacher, speaking of Mr. Rodil's failure to comply with the replacement rate and therefore with the public job offer. Obviously, you know that the replacement rate is a matter dependent on the general government budget. We're talking about a replenishment rate in this case of 100 percent and that gives cover to all those squares that grow after retirement. So, in that sense, as the counselor said, we are with a number of teachers who meet the teaching catalogue of the Autonomous Community and therefore are the needs of the covered education system. Once I've said this, which is the needs of the covered education system, you have to think about the other aspect, about rationality and efficiency in the use of public resources, because ultimately a responsible administration has to be characterized also by that rationality and efficiency. You have also criticized quite the different aspects of the Welsh educational model, which moves in this case, so the adviser announced in June and came to ratify it today, new measures such as the impulse to the multilingual model, the new strategy of digital and technological education in Galicia, the improvement of coexistence in classes and the reinforcement of vocational training. You didn't talk about it because, of course, that doesn't matter, but that's part of the course. They didn't want to talk about the new provision of technological equipment in schools, the reinforcement of digital and technological competition in students, new books and digital classes, the reinforcement of STEM vocations, all issues that are related to the beginning and development of the course in which we are now immersed. They don't talk about the perspective of cohabitation in the classrooms, the improvement of cohabitation in the classrooms. The counselor spoke of something we understand very interesting to follow on this line of improvement of co-existence in the classrooms, which is to carry out again an evaluation and a diagnosis of the real situation of co-existence in Galicia schools to, in some ways, reinforce existing actions but also implement new actions to improve. In the end, we agree, because there always has to be something we all agree on. If something has to characterize an educational system it is constant progress and constant intention to improve. And in that sense, I believe that we all have perfectly clear that the Council, even though we express it and you do not, if we strive to improve the different indicators of the education system and to improve the reality of the Greeks and the Greeks in the classrooms, and therefore of the entire educational community, not only of the boys and girls who receive the classes, but also of the professionals of education, and also, as no, of the parents and mothers, involving in addition, as Mr. Counsellor, the parents themselves and mothers in the promotion of this coexistence and co-education through the schools of parents and mothers, who are steps to be taken to improve the reality of the community and the education system. Finally, there has also been talk about the reinforcement of vocational training. In the end, vocational training must be linked and the hand of society; it must be linked to the socio-economic fabric and to the productive fabric of each region or of each specific area. In this sense, an important effort has been made in adapting cycles; also the consolidation of a network of business farmers; the implementation of foreign languages in this case too in vocational training; and the expansion of vocational training in the workplaces themselves, the wagering of dual FP. It is also part of the school services that improves school libraries through the different plans, the Plambe and the LIA. Finally, we also spoke of a question that comes to reinforce the idea that I conveyed at the beginning of my intervention, of predictability, certainty, normality and security. Security also at all levels: legal security and personal security with ABAU, the evaluation tests for access to university, as it became very clear and is perfectly defined which dates are going to be 12, 13 and 14 June and September for this year 2018. And it's also defined the change in contact with the educational community, because if it was in contact with the educational community, the decision to forward these tests, namely the September 2019 test, by July, in order to shape the actual evidence of access to the university to which the university calendars are and to avoid the dysfunctions that have occurred, as the advisor pointed out earlier. Finally, and to finish, to tell them that, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, the action of a government has to be characterized by bringing the society closer to certainty, by bringing it closer to society security and by bringing it closer to society predictability. It must also be characterized by efficient use of resources and must be characterized by ensuring quality public services. So if we remember that these are the basic characteristics and notes of a responsible administration, we have to conclude, with the data of the course start on the table, that the Education Administration of Galicia is a responsible administration. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u212	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Replica from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's a formal criticism of the delay and the form or data that was raised in this appearance. I've said at first that our intention was to appear before, but questions can be said by force majeure made it change the date. I am certainly surprised when it is questioned that data is given in a course start balance appearance. A starting-of-course appearance is already precisely to bring the data, once closed, of how it was the start-of-the-course, with which I think there's a certain question of losing the reference regarding the form of what this appearance is. Starting with the issues mentioned here, and with regard to what the Galego Nationalist Block says, which happened part of its intervention talking about the teaching framework of this autonomous community, I ratify myself in what I said: we have the lowest ratios in Spain. There are obviously territorial differences between rural and urban, but that also occurs in all parts of Spain, no doubt, especially in areas with a population similar to ours, in the northern areas, because our population is different, but there are rural and urban areas everywhere, with which, I think that is a given that needs to be taken into account. What's right, Mrs. Rodil, is that Galicia has the lowest intern rate in Spain. That's a target data, it's a data that is not opinable, it's the lowest ratio. There are autonomous communities, for example Catalonia, or for example Cantabria, where in some cases there are schools that have zero teachers. You question that there has been an increase in the number of temporary staff and it seems that you want to download into the People's Party the guilt of the reposition rates that were driven by a government that you know was a left-wing government, a socialist government, and it was precisely the Government of the People's Party who recovered the 100 percent replenishment rate. You forget that data, which is very important, as it also forgets a fundamental data: that the centres' allocations are based on a 2007 catalogue, not on a People's Party administration, but on an administration in this case of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, made at a time of greater kindness, and I can tell you that the catalogue is being fulfilled, as it couldn't be otherwise. As far as the OPE is concerned, I've already announced it, we're going to cover 100 percent of the pensions — we have to close exactly how many are — and we're also going to comply with the stabilization agreements, so we're going to increase the incumbent professorship, the opposition professors, in front of the interim professors. There's going to be a greater stabilization, I think I've already said it, and I'm sure you'll be in favour of it. You're also talking about Greek, and here's the truth that they're confused, reality confuses them. You have a vision of the country that is yours, which is respectable, but surely you should open a little more to society and see what really is the people of this country, which is much more open and much more plural than you think. And that's not what the People's Party says; it's a person who usually speaks German without any kind of problem. There's some data published very recently in an inquiry and they come to say something that you're sure to be surprised at, that Greek is the most commonly used co-official language in Spain, no doubt. It's a real statistical data of the ministry, and a data that should make you think about it. Just like another very important data, that a very high percentage of Greeks recognize or give the same role as their mother tongue to Greek as their Spanish because it is a bilingual society. And that's what we'll like or not, but it's the reality of the country and the reality of our people, of our society. And you are somehow obsessed that there can only be a mother tongue and that that mother tongue is exclusively yours, that of everyone, the Greek. But no, that data puts us on the table a very different reality than you seem to see, and above all those catastrophic messages about the use of Greek. Every time you think about these dates, your speech falls. And why English? You seem to question that the Greek children are learning English at a much higher rate than the preceding ones. Why? For a simple reason, because, whether we burn it or not, we are in an increasingly globalized society, increasingly open, where skill and language management is essential not only to go out, but to be here. Because a student with the highest possible management — a child or a child, a boy or a girl — of a foreign language — from English — will have many more opportunities in life. And the education system is equal opportunities trying to extend the domination of a foreign language through the educational system. I heard a spokesman for him that the system of multilingualism was for the rich. And I answered at that time, I don't want to answer it to you: it's just the opposite, this is giving all the students equal opportunities. Socialist Party. Mr. Álvarez, I think the subconscious betrayed him, and I tell him why. He tried to justify that the form of concerted education had been driven by a socialist government, and that's right. I was just telling the story of the circumstances, and you began to say that the PP had ruled for many years. In Spain he ruled, ruled and is ruling, but more years he ruled the Socialist Party; in Galicia he ruled the People's Party for many years and there were also socialist administrations, in particular, in two periods. Also in Andalusia, for example, it has always ruled the Socialist Party. I think the subconscious betrayed him there. I don't blame the Socialist Party for putting in place the system of concerted education, it seems that you are ashamed to recognize it. I don't know if it's your case — maybe it's not your case — but it's true that many socialists seem to deny what they've done not many years ago and that they have some guilt complex. And let us no longer tell their left-wing partners, who say it on many occasions, but then, in real time, they don't. Yes, the system of concerted education is a bet or was approved and put into operation by a socialist government. I just made an account without going into any valuation, which you did. I mean, we didn't blame them at all for the concert, but it seems that you — I don't know, you don't — or some of your political formation and of course your partners deny it. Don't deny it, it's something that you have to see with real normality, and as you said, it's in the Constitution itself. Obviously, you've seen a kind of black panorama here: all programs work badly, everything is a disaster, plurilingualism, dual FP, the digital book, etc. Well, it would really be a disaster if educational communities didn't participate in these programs, or if the final outcome of these programs wasn't an improvement in the field of technology management, in the field of multilingualism, if we weren't growing, still little, but growing more and more in dual FP, etc. But there is evidence that language skills in this area have increased considerably in recent years. Obviously, it's the first year that plurilingualism is implemented in children, in FP and in Bachelor's degree, and this will undoubtedly grow. We're going to improve the materials for the digital book, we've already said; I just said it in my appearance. We've just had a new material bidder, we're going to have a new system of English materials and also more manufactured materials, produced by the teachers themselves, with which there's a high improvement. But there's one thing that if you called me attention to what you said, two things in particular. One, about execution: this council is the one most executed in the whole Union; no doubt, it is the one most executed in the whole Union. It's practically 90% always engaged or always in obligation recognition; it's an absolutely objective data. And there's another fact I've been worried about, too. You took out a statistic. I think we have a problem here, because I don't know what data you handle when we talk about the teacher/student ratio. I suppose you will handle this report, or Report of the figures of education in Spain, statistics and indicators, edited by the ministry in 2017, and I will give you the data clearly of the student/teacher relationship. I don't know about your information. I see a paper written by you today, very nice, but I don't know the source. I give you the official statistical source, that of the ministry, this is. And this tells us that in Galicia the ratio is the following: at the total level, in Galicia the ratio is 10.5; in Asturias, 10.9; in Andalusia, 13.1; and in Catalonia, 13.2. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Asturias and Galicia, the lowest, 10.5 and 10.9. And in childhood and primary, for a specific area: in Galicia, 11.6; in Asturias, 12.6; Andalusia, 14, and Catalonia, 15.6. I don't know if this book tells a lie or a truth, but I certainly trust it because I have no better source to be able to ratify my statement. And as far as the dialogue is concerned, I thank you for a question you said. At the end of the past course, you said that there were many politically intentional criticisms that were false -- you said, I did point it out. Certainly, at that moment I said in this House that there was a very clear political intention to launch messages that were not met. And certainly Mrs. Luca Chao — who made an interesting exposition — has again talked about closures, extinctions... I think the time comes when, while the speech is in the air, you can keep a question like this, but when reality pulls that political argument over the ground, I think the best thing to do is to be humble, to recognize that you have been trying to cheat, that you have not been able to cheat, and to accept "pulpo" by pet - as you say -. Certainly, Mrs. Chao, your speech has remained empty, and that you continue to insist absolutely on it, I think it leaves you in the wrong place. [[Applause]] But, well, I'm not the one trying to fix it, God free me! In any case, you also said, Mrs. Chao, that you had consulted the data and that you have seen the data. I'm surprised he sees them, because if he saw them, he wouldn't say what he says. Because here he's talking about statistics, statistical lies, etc.; I'm sure if I looked at them and interpreted them I couldn't say. You're talking about school failure and you're saying that in other autonomous communities they've come down more gross. Man, of course they went down rougher, but why? Because they were starting from much higher ratios. Of course others had to come down rougher. But if you do, look, I'm going to make a little historical sequence of the dynamics of school failure data, one of the most important variables to measure the equity of the education system. Because there's nothing more unfair than for a student to go out in the street, for a young man or a girl to go out in the street, without any kind of titration, because that can lead him through some very complex and very difficult life routes. And, look, during the Bipartite—there is therefore no direct association between more resources, as Mr Álvarez said, and less school failure—there has been a notable increase in education resources—yes, there has been—but has this been a reduction in school failure? No, on the contrary, it increased from about 23 to 26 and about 10 tenths. Since 2009, there has been a gradual drop in school failure until now, in the last quarter, to 14 and a few tenths — 14.7, 14.6, approximately — below 15%, which is the level that Europe sets for us by 2020. I mean, we're already under the target set by 2020. And obviously, autonomous communities have fallen more crudely, but because they started from much higher data. There were autonomous communities over 30%; i.e., almost 1 out of every 3 children or girls was on the street without any kind of titration. That's why I say it's very questionable what you're telling me. And when you tell me the data, I also tell you, then let's look at the data! I'm recommending this statistic again. This isn't on the Council's website, but it's on the Ministry's page. Do you know how much you averaged Galicia per student? It invests EUR 8.14 per student. How much did you invest in Andalusia? 6,28. How much did you visit Catalonia? 7,3. Madrid? —to see that they're not all of a... let's say that there's one of the People's Party as well — 7.8. Valence? 7.4. There are some that are in similar or higher values: Navarre, 8.9; Cantabria, 8.5. But we're very well positioned in investment. In any case, Mrs. Chao, I wouldn't say it, but he reaffirmed it several times and I have no choice but to say it. I'm not breast-feeding in any case, as you said here on several occasions. I think that you should be very humble and that you should be very careful, because if you're humble and if you're prudent you get less of your foot, you get a lot less of your foot. I think you recommended it to me, and I also sincerely recommend it to you: be more humble, be more prudent, for it will surely lower your foot. And, of course, there's at last some sort of a complex of moral superiority when you hear some statements that really surprise me. You speak and question the system of free solidarity. I ask you, tell me a more socially fair system, where families that have resources can somehow contribute to that system, and those that have less resources have 100 percent covered, absolutely covered. It's hard to find a more socially just system. You're talking to me about a specific case, which is that of Boiro. I'm going to tell you that, since you don't believe me — you have every right not to believe me — you ask the valet, to see what she thinks about this case, to see that you can inform her. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we talked or talked about very specific, very specific issues, but I miss they didn't talk at any time about the results and dynamics of the education system in Galicia. There's only one question, and that's the key. The system's key is one question: does education in Galicia get better or worse in recent years? That's the question to answer. And we humbly think it's improving, it's progressively improving, it's going on a path of progress. We give students more opportunities, we have more knowledge, there are official statistics that support it. We wagered for greater inclusion, for greater equity, for greater equality of opportunity. Finally, I believe that the results — without falling into self-comprehensiveness — support the Council's lines of work. Obviously, we're also aware that it's not all finished or all done, that we have to keep working, but from there we're setting up a scenario and an overview as black as you present, there's certainly a big way to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u214	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. [[Pause.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u215	Well, we'll be predictable, Mr. Fernández Gil, but also yours... I mean, having to be constantly opposing the opposition, I suppose you really have to be tired. I think I've said it on more occasions, we're not here to give them soap, that role I care about you in relation to the Government. [[Applause]] It's the majority force and whoever supports the government, and it's here to reinforce the counsellor's speech. That's not our function, our function is another. Basically here we are in the House of Representatives, in Galicia's Legislative Power, and here what we're dealing with are political projects. The one in the Bloc is not the People's Party, that's obvious, so our responsibility is to confront the political project that comes here to defend the adviser and that represents the People's Party, and to put those issues that we understand not that they don't work, but in many cases they don't even correspond to what we understand should be done in this country. I was referring to the EDUlingue 2020 Strategy or the foreign language empowerment plan in teaching because it has been an absolute bet of the People's Party since 2010, since the decree was passed. It was one of the policy plans where the People's Party invested more money, and we think it's a danger. You said it was a theme of the Galego Nationalist Block to bring here the question of language. What seems absolutely terrible to me is that you didn't make a single reference -- not just one, and it's not the first time that happens, you've already passed several appearances where this happened -- to linguistic normalization. And it is not that it is a theme of the Galego Nationalist Block, Mr. Rodríguez, that it is your legal obligation according to the 1981 Statute, the 1983 Standardization Act and the 2004 General Standardization Plan. So, here comes the highest teaching authority in this country -- because it is, it is the most responsible of this country's teaching portfolio -- to make an assessment of the facts that have been completed, too, we have to say... we made reference to what seemed to be delayed or a little late to its appearance, we also said the following line that seemed great every time it came. [[Applause]] But what comes here is an assessment of the reality of non-university education, that we have a sociolinguistic reality — that I sometimes think they deny it directly so as not to have to intervene on it — and that there is no single reference to language normalization plans — because there are not just at present, there is also a need to say it — addressed to the youth of our country... and always taking into account — I think I have said it on many occasions — that public education in this country is one of the most direct places where we can act not only in the acquisition of linguistic competences, but also in the generation of new spaces of use, also in the transmission of favorable attitudes to provide greater prestige, which is one of the serious problems, of great eyvass, which we have with regard to the use of the language among the younger ages. It's good to say that 8 out of 10 Greeks say their mother tongue or initial language is Greek. Of course, now take the 14-year-old number, do we have a problem or don't we have a problem? And so, among other issues, you announced -- at the moment we haven't seen anything yet -- a Plan of Standardization of the uses of the Greek language between youth. Because we have a clear thing -- and I understand that we share it more or less as we diagnose the political forces represented in this House -- and that a language does not live from the linguistic competences of its speakers, but from their regular and daily use in all spaces; without prejudices, no fences or impediments that will deposit it or move it away to more private and residual spaces. That's why it seemed to us that it was essential to bring this issue today, and above all to confront the foreign language learning project that the People's Party has with which it defends the Galician Nationalist Block. I repeat it to you because I don't know if you're not paying attention or if you don't want to listen. We are not against learning, I hope we can speak to all the people we live and work in this country as many languages as possible! What can't be done is the introduction of foreign languages at the expense of the spaces of use that correspond to the language in which this country is minority. And that's not a matter either that brings to this House the Galician Nationalist Block, but it was the Council of Europe and other institutions that have already pointed it out to them on many occasions. In addition, there is a very interesting element — I believe we have already spoken of this on other occasions — which has placed the Galaga Culture Council on the table in the debate in that report of language practices which it has drawn up among the young people of our country recently, and which placed Greek education as one of the main elements of disqualification of our society. How can it be that, in a temporary line where for the first time youth and society in this country can go to a teaching center to study in "freedom" — between quotes — the Greek language, where for the first time it ceases to be illegal to use the Greek language as a vehicle language in teaching, precisely those older fringes that use the least of that language? We — we insist — do not agree, in most areas, with the education policy that maintains, defends and develops the People's Party. And -- I insist -- we're not here to give them soap and less in appearances where we have to talk about the facts. What we're for is to politically confront projects, and, I say, the People's Party is not the BNG. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u217	Thank you, President. You will allow me, Mr. Counsellor, as is customary in my intervention, to refer to Mr. Fernández Gil, Counsellor two, and then I will go with you. I hope you don't take it disrespectfully. Mr. Fernandez Gil, you said the start of the course started normally. It's true. As it corresponds to the great systems, which therefore have great inertia, are difficult to correct for the good and the bad. But you will also allow me — and I know that you will understand and allow me to license — that, mutatis mutandis, means that the two-party government too was a responsible government because the courses also started normally. So the argument that goes for one goes for another. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Having said what, I think it would be good to make a quiet reading of the logbooks to remember that the word closing center was a word that was forbidden in the idea and dialectical dialogue of the People's Party in June. You were the ones who didn't talk about closures. And the truth is, you can use an euphemism, you can say there's an extinction. The dinosaurs were also extinguished, they didn't close, but, well, the truth is, they're gone, just like some center hasn't opened again. In any case, there is the betrayal of the subconscious that assigned to me by the Counsellor, I think it applies to his words. Counsellor, I really appreciate your presence -- I've told you on more occasions -- I believe in accountability, I think it's necessary. But, look, I would also be grateful if you realized that you are in a plural Parliament, in a democratic Parliament, that you are the Government and that the groups on this side are the opposition. And that, therefore, our task is not trivial criticism, it is not critical to criticize, but rather to question those things that we believe should work differently and make them manifest in this Parliament, in plenary or in the Commission, because we are the opposition. This — I insist — is not a House of Representatives corresponding to any dictatorship. And please don't interpret that I'm saying that you'd prefer it to be so, let's not go with this subconscious betraying each other and end up concluding what no one wants to say. With regard to the OPE, it will offer public employment. what you're talking about, is not that OPE, by many teachers and teachers that include, is supposed to increase teachers, is supposed to functionalize those who overcome the corresponding selective processes or oppositions, as they are commonly known. So there's no increase in professors, there's going to be functionalization, because we're constantly talking about re-appropriating those squares corresponding to retirements. Speaking of your response to my first intervention, you said that I painted a black panorama, and it's not true, look at my intervention. I don't paint a black panorama; I paint a grey panorama; nor black, as you say, I say, nor white, as you say it is. It's gray, it's got good things and things aren't as good, or bad things -- as we want to call them. But in any case — I insist — I did not paint any catastrophic scenario. You said something I don't know if the subconscious betrayed him or if I didn't understand him well. But you said you were surprised that I spoke to you about the level of budget execution of the Education Council since it is one of the highest level of execution — I think it said 90 or more than 90% —. I didn't talk about the full execution of the Education Council, I talked about two specific programs that caught my attention. And I asked him to make an explicit reference to the student of artistic teaching because there was a cut in that program that I think you don't know or what he wasn't aware of until now. And I asked him to clarify specifically where the 6 million euros had been put down in that program, he didn't tell me! And I talked about two programs, I didn't talk about the full budget execution of the Education Council. And lastly — to finish, because if I'm running out of time, with regard to the figures we're handling — for tranquility, for rest and for eventual subsequent consultation by some of your group's Members — I'm handling the same figures as you. It's obvious that you manage in a static way, since you have a book, and I manage in a dynamic way because I consult the dynamic tables of the statistical base of the Ministry of Education. You can do this, I have just shared them to all groups in an atmosphere of transparency — which is that I can be criticized for the figures I have just given —; they are extracted from the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport. They refer to the ratios of public centers in all autonomous communities in three different courses. You check it out. I, except for involuntary error, guarantee them that the figures are the ones that returns the statistical query module of the ministry; and therefore, if they are wrong, it is not the fault of the person who extracts the information, but the one who handles it. You check her out and you'll see I'm not lying to her. I'm just saying it 'cause it's not all so white and it's all black in the Education Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u218	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u219	Thank you very much for your generosity, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u220	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u221	Well, Mr. Román, few surprises and, of course, less answers. I forgot. You, with the invaluable help of Mr. Fernández Gil, come not only here to advertise, but also to oppose the opposition at every plenary session and to teach, of course. One thing I really wanted to tell you. You're the counselor, of course you are! The adequacy and the lessons you intend to give me in every full thought you are too much. The tone you use when you address me I think it's too much. The epithet about my speech as "trainable" I think it's too much. Because look at me as I control myself so I won't tell you how smarties happen to me with your speech! We intend to dialogue on data, not on matters or judgments of value. If you have data that contradicts what I bring you, put them on the table. We discussed the data. If you think I'm not using the correct data, please refer to the official sources because that's exactly where they come from. Like I told you, I have a copy here. When I'm done, I'll put them on the table. And then go up and say they're not the right ones. Then he comes here preaching prudence, and then he goes up here preaching what must be...—what word did he use?, I don't even remember!—he bewares. I don't even know what to call him. It comes here obviously that you are the adviser and, therefore, that it is yours and only your responsibility, and that it is only you who has to give the relevant answers and explanations. The rest is to come and lie down. The rest can save him, both you and Mr. Fernández Gil, for the day in Tide has the Government, that we will be delighted to answer all your questions. And a previous stroke, Mr. Fernández Gil. Whoever said that the question of the start of the course had arrived late in October was Mr. Counsellor. So you agree before and so you don't get into contradictions between you. If you are right, Mr. Fernández Gil — of course — is right, it is on the question of predictability. So much they like to be predictable that, in order to justify themselves, the counselor still goes on, nine years later, appealing to the inheritance received. That's predictability, that's predictability, that's what we have in every plenary, and what we have left! Nine years later... and what's left of us! Well, Counselor, I have a lot of pending things, lots of subjects and little time. You said, for example, that there are schools in Cantabria where there is only one official teacher, as if this was something unpublished that in Galicia we didn't know what it is. Do you know that in Galicia there are unit schools where there is not only one official teacher, but there is only one teacher, who is obviously not an official; is it more, that he has never had any experience? Do you consider it appropriate that there are schools where there is only one teacher in front of a centre that has never taught? Isn't this the reality of this country? Talk to the unions. I know you're not used to it, but talk to the unions, they'll explain it to you and give you specific names where these things are happening. But you didn't say anything about this. I told him before there were many absences in his audience. I told you something, but there's more. In your presence you haven't talked about education law, either, and look at the debate we have in the media. You don't say anything about this. So many years later, and we don't know if LOMCE likes you, if you don't like it, if you consider it appropriate, if you don't consider it appropriate, if you have to make changes, what changes... No, we have no idea. We, on the other hand, do have a clear idea. As we said from the very first moment, it's time to lay down this educational law. But you guys, in the meantime, look somewhere else. While they say they negotiate, they keep applying the law through the back door. We think it's time to put this law down because, as we said from the very first moment, it's a privatizing, elitist and segregation law; a law that brought us the basic FP failure -- I told you before -- the revalids, about which you yourselves had to retreat; a law that brought us religion back to classes; a law thought for and for the market, the People's Party brand, of course; a merchant law that was born dead because not only didn't have the necessary consensus, but it didn't have the necessary funding either. That's what happens to almost all the ads you make in this House, like what you did today about a plan to fight against male violence in schools. One thing we proposed to you a year ago, which you voted against, and today you come here saying what you're going to do. All right, you're going to do it, but for that, Mr. Román, we need resources, we need investment, and that's what the People's Party Government doesn't bring us, because with its government we have more students but less teachers, we have more students but less classes, and, above all, we have more students but less schools and less resources. According to the data of the Ministry of Education itself — I repeat, according to the data of the Ministry of Education itself — when you arrived at the government the expenditure on non-university education was EUR 2000 million 620,000. Today that figure is just 2,000 million 132,000. And you want your congratulations? You mean to tell us that this is all going on in vain? Do you intend to talk about normality and recovery? You mean nothing happened here? With that disabling adjustment measure you are perpetuating and exacerbating the historical deficit we have in our education system when we compare it to any of our surroundings. They show the permanent contradiction between official statements, which place education at the heart of priorities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u222	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u223	...of the Galician Union, and the concrete economic policies, which continue to relegate to a secondary position in the priorities of this government. Once again, Counselor, it's more interesting what it says than what it says. You didn't respond to the disappearance of the repeaters of statistics, said nothing about the massification of classes and ignored philosophy again; no wonder, it's been doing it for many years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u224	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u225	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. Mrs Chao, first of all, I don't know whether Mr Román's — which you reiterate over and over again — is a mistake or an intentional question, but what is clear is that he is already becoming a classic of these appearances and of his speeches in the Galician Parliament. It will pass to history by the honourable Member who always said "Mr. Román." Regardless of that, others are trying to work or do other kinds of things or leave other footprints in our interventions. Having said that, he said a question that turned out to be deeply appealing to me, because you said that you are solely the responsibility of the Government, in this case the advisor as advisor, to give the data, to give the truth of the data, and to give data that fits reality. Obviously. But also what you prove over and over again is that within your face not to be a government, you perfectly execute the irresponsibleness of misrepresenting that data, the responsibility of giving them versus the irresponsibility of false. That's another classic of all your speeches in this parliamentary chamber. On the other hand, obviously we're not here to oppose the opposition. No, here we are, among other things, to refute those lies which the opposition sees about the reality of the parliamentary debate. Because we would be unfair and we wouldn't be fulfilling our role as citizens' representatives if we allowed the opposition forces to lie to the Greeks and to the Greeks. So within our competence is also to deny the lies that you have been lying to us since this tribute of speakers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, there are several issues that have been raised, but I'm going to stop at a bit of what Mrs. Rodil was talking about and, basically, on the subject of language. Mrs Rodil, first of all, told me that she had to be tired of doing this work, as you say, of opposition to the opposition. Look, I think it's not more tired or exhausting than having to be constantly telling people that the reality they live in is totally different from the reality they interact with. That has to be really exhausting. Because in the end, when you're lying the lies that others tell, you have a result. What is it? People see reality. But the complicated and exhausting thing is to have to be constantly convincing people that reality is totally different from what they live. That really has to be very exhausting, because, among other things, it doesn't come up with any results. [[Applause]] Look, you talked about sociolinguistic reality and you're gonna forgive me for going a little bit of the theme of the start-up appearance course, because, as the opposition spokesmen gave you absolutely equal the start-up course, I'm also going to get out of the script set up and we're going to talk about that sociolinguistic reality. You said there were no plans to promote the use of Greek in youth in our country. Well, I have to tell you that right now there is a plan to promote the use of Galician in youth in our developing country, and precisely a plan that would not be in progress or would not be in preparation if we had the opinion of the Galician Nationalist Block, because you know perfectly well that they voted against that plan. So they don't ask for plans to be implemented because, when they have the opportunity to give them the boost, the support, the impulse for them to move forward, you're going to vote against precisely to prevent these plans from getting in place. So, I think we're finally playing on a limit of the discourse that ends up confusing social reality, so our work of lying lies. Look, you were saying something interesting, talking about language competition and the use of language. Language competence and language usage are complementary, you know that. And the obligation of responsible administration is to guarantee competition in the use of language and then to encourage the use of language; that is, to guarantee competition, to guarantee the tool and then to encourage use. And I think that premise is fulfilled by the actions of the German Government. I know you don't like that data, but we're at the highest level of knowledge of the English language in our story. And if our administration, the education administration and the administration on which language policy depends, it makes it possible that within its obligation we are in the highest degree of knowledge, it is doing its work. Now what should be done from there? Then encourage their use, with plans to which, as I said, the BNG in many cases votes against. Look, I'm saying this for all the groups, because they were talking about you finally coming here to make political criticism or confronting political positions. I understand that, of course, the groups that we are represented here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u226	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u227	...—end, President—we each have our political position, the discrepancies are logical and can argue. But there's a problem. The problem is, when we want to point out our political position and we want to argue, if we deviate too much from that line that separates the reality from falsehood, we're not talking about political positions, what we're just doing is lying. So, I think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u229	...—I am finished, President—we must recognise those things that work well in the system and, of course, do all of us to improve, because, as I said in my previous speech, the path of the education system must always be the way to the best. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u230	Thank you very much. I beg you before you continue to lower down a little the generalized murmur on all sides, which is rather uncomfortable for those who are making use of the word. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Rodríguez González, has the doubling shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u231	Good afternoon again. Mrs. Rodil, how great democracy is, how great it is! You say you have your political program, you have your political bet and you have a political project, and obviously you're not on this side of the bench. It has been noted that democracy is good that electoral competition compares one project to another, and citizens freely choose one or another; and some are responsible for ruling and others for being opposed. In Galicia in this legislation governs the People's Party, in other governments other parties. That's just democracy, with which you have a political project, and we have another one. [[Applause]] So far we all agree. You don't want us to implement your political programme because it would be against nature, and we also understand that you don't have to praise or applaud ours, but at least be aware that the democratic will of the Greeks has chosen that for this period it should govern and that this model should be applied, and we are trying to do, simply and flatly, to apply to the end what is democracy. This ultimately has to do with the perception of society and the reading that we make of social reality, of our reality. And of course, you've focused a lot on the use of Greek. Hey!, the education system, if anything guarantees, is a full knowledge of the two co-official languages of Galicia; it shows the statistics. Never in Galicia has there been such full knowledge of our languages, of our own language, at the oral level, written or to have reading ability. Never! Another different thing may be that people at liberty, at any age, use it or not use it, a question that I understand that no political education will enter into something as intimate as to tell a person you have to talk to. Now, what we have to guarantee, and it's guaranteed, is that the education system guarantees knowledge and skills. And I just gave you some data there's very little to do with the use and ability to use Greek compared to other co-official languages of the state, and we're what we're better at, with which, I think that vision that you pose -- which is legal -- I think it falls once we collide with the data. Mr. Álvarez spoke, or questioned, that we would normally use the term "normality" concerning the beginnings of the course. That's quite the way it is. And why is the terminology of "normality" used at the beginning of the course? Because certainly, Mr. Álvarez — and you also know how I know it — not every year the beginnings of the course have been as they have been in recent years. In my time as a parliamentary spokesperson I once made a comparison of the years of the Bipartite with the years of government Feijóo, the last four with the first four years, and I could certainly see how for a number of years the beginnings of the course were practically chaotic. I said it wasn't a matter of having more resources, because there was less in recent years, and I remember that Mr. Losada was very angry at that moment. And that's something to consider. I mean, there have been quite chaotic beginnings of course for a number of years, I don't know why. But I also know that in recent years normality is the dominant tone, and that's what I think is very positive, and I think it's something that speaks well not only about the education system, not only about the administration, but about the system as a whole: inspection, management centers, teachers, etc. I think it's very positive that the start of the course, which is very complex from an organizational point of view at a technical level, because a lot of resources are mobilized, start normally. You talked about OPE, too. We said, we're going to cover 100 percent of retirements and open the door to a progressive process of stabilization of the interim professor, although we're the autonomous community that has the lowest rate in Spain. And that is possible now, in other years it was not possible, because precisely there was a regulation of the Socialist Party at the state level which, as you well know, prohibited it. You're talking about school failure. I already gave him the data. You know the program contracts perfectly. Or he says we don't refer to artistic teachings; there are 11,500 students in artistic teachings. I think a policy doesn't measure because it has a million or a million less in budget, which is important; or 2 or 3, or 6, or 20 or 100, it's measured by its results. And the results in reducing school failure in recent years have been tremendously positive, and not for the People's Party or for the Galician Union, but very positive for students, because every student, every child, every child, who leaves the street without any type of titration, we lead him to a very difficult vital path, with which the reduction of school failure in recent years has been very positive mainly for those students who leave this school failure. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Obviously, it doesn't make sense that we're discussing the data. I've come up with a statistic that's published, that's edited by the ministry, and you question it. I tell you, according to official data, that Galicia and Asturias, Asturias and Galicia — Asturias, the Socialist Party — are the autonomous communities that have better ratios. You put us in fifths or sixths. Well, we're not going to argue, it's just official data, with which certainly there's little discussion. We were told by Mrs. Luca Chao, or Mrs. Luca Chao, that when it comes to the government of En Marea... well, I understand that Galicia is a sensible people and I think it's a prediction or a wish for her part that, for the sake of Galicia, I don't see that it's very easy. And tell us we're predictable. And I'm going to say, fortunately; fortunately we're very predictable. A government action must be predictable. Why do you have to be predictable? Because citizens have to evaluate our decisions and implement our decisions. With which I think it's a value to be predictable and not trying every day to rediscover the Mediterranean, trying almost in a weekend avanism to change everything. Because you see that in some places they are on that line, in many important municipalities in the country they are on that line, and you see the results that they give, that they are unable or able to approve their budgets. With which, the truth is, they'd have to be very cautious of you. [[Applause]] And, look, I say that you are also predictable in that sense in your speech, in a serious speech: mercantilization, neoliberalism... I really thank you for centering yourself and reminding us every day of the goodness or not of the goodness of LOMCE, I think you make a great intervention and that we remember every day of this worst legislative text — as you classify it —. And we are aware that your forecast focuses on this area. But in the end, I want to tell you -- and I'm telling you publicly -- that we have a good education system in Galicia. What can be better? Of course! But we have a good education system. And when I say that we have a good education system, it's not that it's sole merit, nor the sole responsibility of the educational administration, the political leaders. When I say we have a good education system, I'm talking about teachers, families, trade union organizations, administration, all of them. Trying to be questioning or denying the increases and improvements that have been achieved in recent years, the education system is simply saying that teachers, families, trade union organizations and administration do their work wrong. And that's not fair to families, to teachers, or to unions; it's not fair to anyone, to inspections, or to management teams; it's really lacking the truth. Because the truth is that we can discuss a lot of issues, we can disagree with the model -- you have one model, we have another -- we can do it. But what comes out of the approach is to question the progress that has been made in recent years in the education system, where, of course, there is a great involvement of the whole community in the strategies and programs promoted by the Galician Union. And that's perhaps the key to success that we've had in recent years collectively in the education system. We're improving quality, equity, modernization, innovation, giving more opportunities, etc., etc. And that's because there are a number of programs that are well-accommodated by the educational community in any of its parameters, and together -- teachers, centers, etc. -- they're enabling and progressively improving in any of the variables that we can evaluate. And we are certainly aware that there is a lot to improve, that we have a lot to do, etc. We are aware and are doing it, somehow thinking about the results and thinking about the most important, that are the academic levels of students, training as people, but also the training that must give them a greater chance of employability in the future, more opportunities for the future, and also thinking that we have a responsibility with each student, with almost 400,000 students, one by one, and collectively with all. In any case, as I have already told you, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that in education — as in any other matter — if you have done a lot, there is much to be done. But they can be sure that we will do so, with the educational community, working with their feet on the earth, looking to the future and always respecting the democratic will of the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u232	Thank you very much, Counselor. We now move on to the discussion of non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the establishment by the Greek Government of December 1 as the Day of the Dignity of Galicia, as well as the regulation of the organization of commemorative activities on an annual basis
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u233	No amendments were tabled to this initiative. To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u234	Good afternoon. On November 13, 2002, the oil tanker Prestige, loaded with 77,000 tons of fuel, suffered an accident 30 miles from the back of Galicia. The lack of political leadership, neglect, incompetence of Spanish and Greek governments in managing this accident has made it the greatest economic, ecological and social catastrophe in our history. Unfortunately, it is a normal fact that Galicia remains unprotected, orphaned by the Spanish Government's obligations or suffering the consequences of measures taken by it that adversely affect it, but few times in recent history the evidence was so clear to the whole population, even to the most skeptical, and the consequences were so serious. The black tide caused by Prestige affected areas of immense ecological, landscaped, wildlife and extraordinary richness of fish, molluscs and crustaceans of great commercial value. The 63,000-ton balance of sea- poured fuel, nearly 3,000 kilometres of affected coastline, more than 1,000 beaches full of chapotee and an animal mortality of between 115,000 and 200,000 seabirds, was an enormous economic impact of loss of income in the affected areas, both men and women of the sea and other related activities. No one could understand — and still does not understand and less accept — that on one of the coasts facing thousands of ships with dangerous goods and with such important fishing and seafood production there was not and still there was not a corridor far enough away from the coast for ships carrying dangerous goods, there were no powerful tugs, there were no boats to collect the crude, there was no contingency plan, etc. It's hard to understand this degree of discrimination and neglect when there have been such serious accidents on our backs, accidents and disasters that can happen again, because the yellow coasts remain tremendously unprotected and defenceless. There were so many incompetences, misinformation, lack of means, evidence of governments that did not exercise their responsibilities, the absence of decisions and political action, the practice of lies, misinformation, that the Greeks and the Greeks took on the role, giving an example of immense courage in the face of the black tide. The German people have been self-organized. The people in the coastal areas — starting with sailors, seafarers — faced with the few means that they were set against the black tide to prevent them from entering the creeks. There were no barriers, there were no collectors, there were no special suits to collect the fuel, almost everything was missing, and there was no information manipulation, prepotence, lie, that were practised against the offender, thus attempting to circumvent the responsibilities. In spite of all this, the Greek people were able to organize themselves and with their own means—with their ships, their hands, their steps, their caps—to take the hat out of our sea. In the face of an erratic and chaotic act, I was able to organize the defense, the active solidarity of volunteering. And at the same time and with the same impulse he began to mobilize to demand measures to repair the damage and responsibility for the outcome. All Galicia supported this attitude. Solidarity and country consciousness were at the height of the moment, and everyone looked towards a Galician willing to defend its shore. The Greek people were able to plant the tragedy and exert political pressure through the creation of the platform Never More. Never again does it represent the dignity that the Greeks and the Greeks demonstrated in those days of confusion and despair in the face of a tragedy that has become a catastrophe because of the neglect and inefficiency of the management of the Greek and Spanish Government. [[Applause]] With the demanding action of Never More, he showed himself the pride of being Germans and Greeks, the pride of belonging to a people who defend and protect their own. Never again has it been the spark of one of the most important social, cultural, struggle and demand movements in Galician history. Faced with the absence of political power, the Greek people had exemplary behavior and taught a lesson in dignity, self-organization, facing the most immediate effects of the Prestige disaster, and in constant struggle and demand for months to demand the political leaders of the accident to our country. The people of Greece have shown themselves to be far above the political leaders of both Galicia and Madrid. In the face of the desolation, the impotence, the outrage felt by the Greek people on December 1, 2002, summoned by the platform Never More, the Greek people manifested themselves in the streets of Compostela demanding means, solutions, knowing the truth, and demanding responsibilities — it seems to the People's Party to be gratifying —, demanding responsibilities, because there were them. [[Applause]] The manifestation in Compostela on December 1st undoubtedly reflected and brought together the sentiments of disgust, solidarity, pain, strife, which filled the hearts of most of the Greeks and the Greeks. The intense rain — I daresay that the flood — which fell on Compostela that day on December 1 was not an obstacle for nearly 300,000 people, 300,000 Greeks and Greeks to come to Compostela to the call of the platform Never More. All people with united country consciousness so that no more such a thing would happen. Thousands of Welsh and Welsh people who crossed the streets of the capital of Galicia gave a true lesson of dignity, who would soon repeat in Madrid on February 24, 2003, becoming an example for the whole world. A lesson of dignity many other times repeated in the towns and cities of Galicia. [[Applause]] On December 1, 2002, the people of Greece were a sea of dignity, a sea of umbrellas, a unanimous cry against the news blackout, information manipulation, the lie, plastic threads, splendid beaches, the lack of means... it was a true lesson of dignity. [[Applause]] That December 1 th, 15 years ago in the square of the Oberdoiro, of Compostela, a manifesto was read, which was read by Manolo Rivas, who began saying, "Thank you, brothers. Here's dignity, here's free conscience, here's a living people, here's Galician honor." And today the BNG brings this initiative here because we believe these words that sounded 15 years ago in the Opradoiro are fully vigilant. And he finished that manifesto saying, "Polycommander, Urquiola, Erkowit, Andros Patria, Casson, Sea Aegean, now Prestige. We don't want to count anymore, enough, we're already oiled by the beaches of the soul. Galiza mobilized, exemplary, managed in the 1980s to close the radioactive waste dump, the nuclear cemetery off the coast of Fisterra. Well, today we say "never again!"that you no longer despise this people tired of stopping and suffering. To be heard in Santiago, Madrid and Brussels, to be heard where to listen. Galicia is today humanity who screams "never again!"." The answer of the Greek people we believe in the BNG that deserves praise, which deserves public recognition. The country of "never again!", which amazed the world by the dignity shown, deserves recognition. And he deserves it in this institution, in the Greek Parliament, where the sovereignty of the people of Galicia resides, and deserves it by the Government of Greece. And for these reasons we propose today to this Parliament that the Government of Greece be urged to set up December 1 as Galician Dignity Day. In the conviction that they will vote in favour, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u235	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u236	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. In fact, as the BNG spokesperson said, in the morning of December 13-14, 2002, the Prestige came on the back of Galicia wounded in death, and the result of that wound we all knew it sadly, we all lived it. The only good of that catastrophe was a spectacular social movement, which crystallized in a demonstration and in a collective cry on December 1 of that same year, not only of women and men from Galicia, but also of those who mostly came from outside and in a completely voluntary and uninterested way to help us clean our backs. And that's why from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we're going to support this non-law proposal. The question is that, over time, fifteen years later, we don't know very well where we are. We are at a time when the Supreme Court has said several important things in relation to the Prestige, a judgment which is insufficient for us but which has marked a milestone within the economic crimes in Spain. The Supreme said the Prestige wasn't just a misfortune or an accident, not an inactivity on the part of a government, but it was a crime. There was a chief in charge, a captain, a shipowner who is unfortunately in an insolvency situation and an insurer who is going to have to pay; if we are able to demand the necessary accounts in London, it will have to pay what is due to the Spanish State and therefore to the Greek people. This Supreme Court ruling also said something else. He said it is true that international liability compensation treaties have a limit, but that, when there are ecological crimes, that limit should not exist. And in this case there was not only an ecological crime, an ecological damage, but also, above all, a moral damage to the whole people of Galicia, which a community like ours must obtain from that moral damage a compensation. The truth is that the focus was placed from those days first throughout the Coast of Death, in all our rivers where the chapote entered, in all our rivers where the chapote did not enter thanks to the work mainly of the sailors and the neighbors and the neighbors. But the focus was placed on two places basically: first, in Muxia, as a zero zone of the accident, of the crime, after the Prestige; and also in Corcubion's trial, which, as I said before, arrived from Corcubion to the Supreme Court last year. The problem is that our backs, after Mexico and Tobago, are the third in the world most hit by these kinds of ships that are aging, that almost all — many — are wounded by death and that at any time blow close to, third, our backs. We are a coastal country, we are victims, we are a victim country, and the European Union is recently for us. Spain is not moving in the maritime strategy and that's why those ships are still passing through that corridor in front of our backs. So it can happen again, it can happen again at any time. We understand that we need to go back to what that trembling president the other day from Andalusia said to me: but is the People's Party in Galicia still talking about José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero? Yeah, yeah! Well, so do we. Zapatero had created Cepreco and you had dismantled it. We don't have a command center, there's no performance protocols, there's no prevention. There's a contingency plan in which no technician or council has participated. That's what we have. This bill is very good for dignity as a people and that is why we are going to vote in favour. But we understand that we need to keep moving a little further. It's very good that "who pollutes pay," but it's not enough, because in the end, what happens is that they're in London and they don't pay. We have made it clear that that day in that demonstration — and I am finished, President — that it was initially limited or tried by the Government to limit it through the Delegation of the Government so that it would only be in the narrow streets of the monumental area of Santiago, so that if people were lost along the way, it was obviously also the courts who agreed that the demonstration was for the people of Galicia and all the people who had come from outside to claim...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u237	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u238	...that they never pass those ships by our backs again — ended, president — and never again happens to be an ecological crime like this. But if we don't take action, it can happen again at any time. So you have to decide once and for all whether or not there will be a single command and reconstitute that measure from President Zapatero, who they like so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u239	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u240	Good afternoon. It is impossible to delete the images of the Prestige, but also to delete the phrases that we then hear from the members of Mr. Aznar's poly-input government, a recital that defined the capacity and moral soundness of that cabinet. All or almost all of them have won in their political careers later; if one didn't get as well as the others, it wasn't because they had to pay any kind of political responsibility for that bad performance. Recital of this government, starting with Rajoy and ending with Arsenio Fernández de Mesa, who follows as always, sucking on the state's breast and its complicities. Mariano Rajoy said there were a few small plastic threads, which ended up turning into 125 tons of fuel; "the black tide is not going to reach the Bajas." Federico Trillo proposed to bomb the Prestige. Arias Cañete said that " Luckily, given the rapid intervention of the Spanish authorities by moving the ship off the coast, we do not fear an ecological catastrophe, as has happened on other occasions, nor foresee major problems in Spanish waters or for fishing resources". Even November 26th, not to be overlooked: "the spill affects a very important extension but it is not a black tide". Francisco Álvarez Cascos, also when they criticized him for being hunting the next day: "I belong to a government and a party that has not organized any group to kidnap citizens, to pick up shots on the neck and bury in which he lives. Zapatero and Polanco have led the editors of the Chain Being to investigate the hotels where government members stayed on weekends." Aznar: "They're dogs who steal their resentment from the corners." Arsenio Fernández de Mesa, this brilliant man from Public Administration who charges €180,000 in Spanish Electric Network: "probably the fuel does not touch the Galician coast; the destination of fuel at the bottom of the sea is to become adoquin". Rajoy paid his loyalty by appointing him as Chief Executive Officer of the Civil Guard and now placing him on the Spanish Electric Network. With the final jewel of Mr. Arsenio Fernández de Mesa, who defines his category by saying, "There's a clear figure and it's that the amount that has been poured is not known." Well, in the face of this incompetence, we had to take out the hat with our hands. Many people have come to help us pull fuel from our backs and therefore, as Beiras said, when the state disappeared, the nation emerged; words that could also have been written in the recent fire crisis. The questions that are left on the table are many. The questions that have been asked here if we're prepared to deal with a similar crisis after what happened, if there's still security on the coast of Greece, and if we can believe that the chief officer is the captain of the ship. It seems that, behind the business, the false flags, ultimately, of putting private business in front of security, is not Mr. Mangouras. Mangouras served as a smoke curtain that prevented him from seeing the real leaders of the catastrophe, responsible for safe business, but also politicians, politicians of the People's Party, gentlemen who are still in the institutions. And, in front of them, the response of the people, the response as always stigmatized, none; massive and criminalized response, criminalized by those and those who understand that business must stand before the common good, by those who think that freedom of expression can only be exercised in the privatized forums of the media, also the privatized media of public communication, and not by the citizenship of the common people taking the streets and squares. That's why we always say that he never opened a cycle of indignation and response. It was a tide of dignity, it was plural and diverse, as is Greek society. I assumed a cry of dignity in the face of indecency, a moment of awakening in the face of the nightmare of the long neoliberal night, a cry that belongs to the whole of our country. We share the idea of establishing December 1 as Galaga Dignity Day and announcing our vote in favour. We don't know if the People's Party will vote for or against; they have the votes, they have the seats. What we do know is that, if they don't vote in favour, it's because they want to bury the example of Never More in this country's history, because it's dangerous for them that precedent. We know — yes — that before or after the people who mobilized during the "never again!" He'll turn his back on them. It says Manolo Rivas, who never deserts him of fair battles: "sometimes the history of Galicia is written as a calendar of defeats or fanned hopes. Never again has allowed us and allows us an optical revolution, the solidarity and civic energy and the resurgence capacity of our people. When survival is at stake, parasitic power loses its shame and goes from permanent vacations to immorality. The Never More belongs to a remembered present, to the memory of hope and to the resurgence against today's Prestige, which is the great reactionary retreat.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u241	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u242	It means popular unity, more democracy and a rebel and solidarity Galicia that rises in the shipwreck to be emancipated from its childish politics." Never again!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. You have the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that the GNP that brings us today the BNG has made me think deeply. And the fruit of that reflection I want to start this intervention by apologizing to my colleagues on the popular bench. Sometimes in the middle of the debate a excessive verbal commit that can bring unforeseen consequences. And I 15 days ago, in the debate of another proposal, said that the opposition had found its particular balm of Fierabrás to cure their evils: to beat the People's Party. And it seems that, as an unexpected consequence of that expression — in sin I lead to penance — BNG found that the best way to provide this cure is by institutionalizing an official day to beat the People's Party. I must admit that they were ready in this, although nothing original, because to establish as marked a date — called the Day of Dignity — they decided to resurrect the Prestige catastrophe. Yes, without changing an apex the speech that was held 15 years ago, despite the fact that this speech was demolished by reality and by successive judicial pronouncements. Catches from the fishing sector, which would fall for decades, recovered their level two years after the disaster. The announced and feared fall of the German GDP — more than 4 points, they said — has never taken place. The environmental recovery from our backs is today — and for many years, fortunately — more than evident. The carcinogen trail that the chapote was going to leave in the volunteers fluctuated. Even the decision to distance the oil tanker from the Greek coasts, causing all the damage, was supported by the judicial report of the Provincial Court of the Crown and the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u245	Quiet. Listen to what's in the use of the word, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please excuse me for a moment, Mr. Pazos. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please be quiet. Listen to who's in the use of the word, just as they've heard the rest before. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u246	Thank you, President. "It is impossible to describe such conduct as criminal and not merely reckless, because the decision was conscious, meditated and largely effective within the disaster that did not provoke the Spanish Administration, but managed it professionally, adequately and under very unfavorable conditions"; literally to sentence, gentlemen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But in spite of the great professional effort of the lawyer of Never More, who insistently demanded the condemnation of the political authorities, this was not heeded by justice, by its obvious lack of foundation. Are the judges careless? Maybe never again's lawyer? I don't think so, especially if we are aware that this lawyer was from the total confidence of BNG and En Marea, as evidenced by the fact that Mr. Martiño Noriega hired him first as a legal adviser to the Teo Council and after the Town Hall of Santiago, curiously after noting from the previous adviser alluding to the fact that he was going to remunicipalize the judicial service. Anyway, he's got more! The BNG, usually so rosy for judicial matters, prefers to invoke Calderon de la Barca: "You are nothing just in my taste," and therefore refuses to assume the judgments of those oppressive and Spanish courts because there is no more truth than the one on the left or sentence more valid than the one dictated by his prophets. Here you go, gentlemen! [[Applause]] I have to confess that I tried to imagine how this initiative happened to them. And I imagine all six walking through the Dead Coast Scene and saying, "Do you remember when the Prestige is, how did we fuck the PP? What a time those! I had to try and get it back." And of course, I understand that you're going to get warm and sprinkle these things. Man, they could have hidden themselves and proposed a tribute to the volunteers who approached to clear our backs, which they did give a lesson in dignity, but of course, as most of them were Spanish and different ideologies, that had to be discarded. It is much better to commemorate his greatest moment of glory: the manifestation of Never More. Maybe they're trying to reconvene demonstrations where they're not allowed to go to the PP representatives, as they did then. They can also organize complementary activities: contesting claims where the first stanza is always the same: "PSOE and PP, the same shit is," as they said then. Perhaps one of you thought he could come every year to receive it again — I suppose as a sign of dignity — with a rain of rotten eggs, as they did then. Even perhaps they would like Beiras to warn the socialists again, who support them today, that they didn't try to get cut, that you had the exclusive. How did they do it then? Well, not this last part, because Mr. Beiras got off the stage and now he shares a microbus with the Spanishists of Podemos. [[Applause]] Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, we think a people should celebrate those things that unite them. Today you propose a commemoration related to the environmental disaster and the subsequent campaign of manipulation and sectarianism carried out by your supporters, a platform led by the usual undersigned who during the Prestige crisis criminalized the Government of Fraga and four years later, during the fire strike, criminalized the opposition led by Feijóo. What an equanimism! It gives them the same way to beat up the government as the opposition, that's right, as long as the People's Party takes over it. Look, if you want to dedicate a day to sectarianism, at least have the courage to call it by its name, maybe we'll support it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u247	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u248	...because it compensates us to be sectarians only once a year, it compensates us for the current situation. If the claim then is simply to remove the mask, I think a closer date is Ash Wednesday and so at least we all have clear that this is an intrusion. Now, ladies and gentlemen, not Dignity Day, that's what we don't need, because the Greeks defend our dignity every day since Galicia is Galicia. So lessons of dignity, ladies and gentlemen, never again or ever again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor by the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u250	Mr. Pazos and with him the entire People's Party, who has just applauded him, withdraws itself: the frivolity and the shyness which he has just done here with his intervention certainly deserves no further comment. The BNG does not intend to celebrate any catastrophe, the BNG intends to commemorate the dignity of the Greek people in the face of that catastrophe and its incompetence. I'm sorry, but today's focus is not the People's Party, it's not you, Mr. Pazos. I should have told his group to give him some place where he could do his titrirates. But today this is about the dignity of the people of Greece, the dignity of the people of Greece. In the year 2002, the People's Party was not up to the German people and today it is no longer up to the Greek people, it persists in error. [[Applause]] The most Korean words at that time were "dissemination" and "incompetence", they were the unanimous shouts. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] How right, how right there was to cry out for resignation and incompetence! The People's Party wants us out of our minds and out of our minds, wants the people of Greece out of their minds, and it's not gonna be, it's not gonna be. The Greek people remember, have a history of dignity, we're a nation with history and we're not willing to let you steal or pretend to forget it. We're not going to forget our story. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I now, with the permission of my companion Mini, will read a poem by Manuel Maria, written by Manuel Maria and music by Quantella, by Mini, which is the story—the poem—of Galicia, a poem that says: "The story of Galicia takes little, / has brevity almost of salouco. - The Medulium, heroic, immortal. - The German and communal fight. / Freedom burning in pure sail / or our maritime Pardo de Cela. / I hear redeeming echoes / in the romantic voice of the precursors, / that became a guide and prophecy / in Antolín Faraldo and Rosalía. / Heroics shot from Carral, / verses from Curros, hymns from Pondal. / Vilar Ponte, don Ramón o de Cambados, / Bóveda, Castelao, the emigrants. - The times aren't yet, they're not here. The times, not yet, are not come, but, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, don't be afraid they will be. Even though the People's Party does not wish to officially acknowledge December 1 as Galician Dignity Day, in official, informal history, of the Greek people, it is already: December 1 and never again represent the dignity of a people who have not resigned, who have gone out to the street to demand actions, to demand responsibilities and the dignity of a people who have organized and fought to defend their own. And no doubt they'll do it again, we'll do it again every time we need it. In spite of you, the Greek people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u251	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u252	...and the dignity of the Greek people exists and never again existed and continues to exist in our hearts and in our collective ideal. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u253	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and six other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia to advance the conservation and dissemination of our traditional toponymy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u254	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u255	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u256	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The study, the research, the recovery of the toponyms is a global concern. The proof of this is the existence since 1960 of a group of experts within the UN with the aim of promoting the normalization of geographical names and promoting the national and international benefits that result in such standardization. Their work is fundamental because it facilitates the formulation and dissemination of the right principles, policies and methods to solve the problems of coherence in the use of toponyms, encouraging the recovery of names that are used locally as well as their storage and dissemination. In 2014 this group established the criteria for assessing geographical names as elements of cultural and intangible heritage, declaring that the toponyms are an integral part of the intangible cultural heritage, such as—textually— "constitute essential components of languages and preserve forms that show their evolution, because they are valuable witnesses to history and past and current life modes". Our Autonomous Community is not ally with this concern, because the interest in preserving and recovering toponyms joins in doing so in the language that is our own, particularly after the long night of stone. With the support of Article 5 of the Autonomy Statute, establishing that the language of Galicia is Galicia's own language, the Law of Linguistic Standardization of 1983 goes a little further by stating that the language of Galicia is the only official form for Galician toponyms, a law that has already introduced the concept of administrative co-responsibility in determining the names of geographical places. In this way, the Galician Union is responsible for determining the official names of municipalities, territories, population nuclei, interurban channels of communication and Galician toponyms. On the other hand, the law reserves for the municipalities the determination of official names for urban roads in their municipal term. In this same time frame we must refer to the regulation of the Committee on Toponyms, the body of study, counseling and consultation of the Board of Galicia, heir to the Pre-Autonomic Commission, where persons in the category of Filgueira Valverde, Antonio Fraguas, Carballo Calero, Rio Barja, among others, began the urgent task of returning to its dark form the toponymous wealth of Galicia, freeing it from the distortions or discredited graphics imposed by the oblivion or ignorance, or by the ignorance of our cultural and linguistic heritage, as it collects the exhibition of motives. If we had to put on the table some of the work done from Autonomy up to here, I think that all — and I in particular — would highlight the nominators of the four Greek provinces: Ourense in 1996, Pontevedra in 1998, Lugo in 2000 and, finally, La Coruña in 2003. We can say that, thanks to these works, we have more than 41,000 revised toponyms and 3,523 carefully studied. As the president of the Royal Galaga Academy himself says, the larger toponyms, the important ones, which refer to municipalities, parishes, villages, are already at this first stage, but it's not enough. All the Greek governments have been conscious, we are aware that it does not cease to promote projects in search of the work initiated in the Pre-Self-Governing State. But, undoubtedly, in my opinion, a central and prominent role in this issue plays the Toponyms project of the Galician Union, which starts in 2000 and is set up as a cross-sectional project of different departments of the autonomous administration, but also other administrations, particularly the councils, as well as civil society in general, either individually or collectively through neighborhood associations, cultural associations, mountain communities, etc. And here I also want to name the work done by the institutions, by statutory institutions such as the Galeg Culture Council or the Royal Gallega Academy, the Galician Language Institute, the Father Sarmiento Institute and the universities of Galicia, among others. The different projects and programs developed in thirty-eight years now allow us to have a large volume of information on the toponymity of thousands of places and other geographic realities, such as sodas, frags, areas, streams, fountains..., studied in writing and located on the map, becoming, thanks to modern technologies, essential elements for developing urban planning, cartographic studies, new communication infrastructures, emergency management... but above all, it allows us to obtain valuable information about our culture and our history. The appreciation of toponymity as a cultural heritage implies, in our view, a qualitative leap in its study, in its conservation and in its promotion and dissemination, which is reflected in the latest regulations. At the state level, the Law for the Safeguarding of Inmaterial Cultural Heritage, of the year 2015, which obliges public authorities to preserve traditional toponymity as an instrument of correction, of realization of the geographic designation of the territories. At the autonomous level, Galician Cultural Heritage Act, approved in this House last year, which introduces a specific regulation for intangible heritage, with differentiated treatment for the Greek language and toponymity among others. The law itself determines that the Union of Galicia will, together with other institutions of the Autonomous Community, watch for the preservation of traditional toponyms and pay special attention to the Way of Santiago and its toponyms as part of its values. This law follows closely the spirit of the recommendations of the Convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage of the United Nations body, recognizing an active role for communities in the protection and maintenance of cultural and intangible heritage. This recognition obliges us to create a great consensus and weave collaborative networks that will enable us to continue with the identification, documentation, research, protection, promotion, valorization and revitalization of our toponymous heritage. It's an ingenious job that requires large-scale social involvement. In our opinion, public administrations are responsible for creating the avenues, tools and tools needed to weave that great network of civil society that allows us to document all the toponymous wealth in our country. The Galician Toponymy project has already focused on this issue, just like the GeoArpad initiative, a project — you know for sure — of the northern Galician euro area of Portugal that is developing, for example, a computer application, "named Galicia", conceived as an online collaborative tool for collecting, introducing and georeferenced Greek microtoponyms. As part of this project, last week we met one more step in favor of the recovery of our toponymity, putting in place a new program within the Linguistic Dynamics Network leading the General Secretariat of Linguistic Policy: "Toponize, we told you about the names of your land." It is an action of dissemination and awareness that will develop in fourteen municipalities, the hand of recognized specialists, in order to raise awareness of the importance of toponyms and microtoponyms as a heritage resource of incalculable value, because, no doubt, this is the moment of microtoponyms, to prevent the most accurate references of each place, both in its physical and orographic part, of flora, fauna, but, above all, that customary, social part, even imaginable with legends and myths. And it's not easy. The experts explain that Galicia has such a rich toponyms — more than three million toponyms, which is Figueira Valverde — for four reasons: irregular geography — which requires constant reference points —, a continuous settlement in history, intense population dispersion and a fragmentation of property. If we add at present the loss of population in rural areas, especially our greatest guardians of memory, it is clear that this work requires efforts and the help of all to preserve the important collective heritage that we treasure as a society, which is part of our idiosyncrasy and that we have to bind to the generations that succeed us. So today we bring to this House this non-law proposal to urge the Government of Greece to persevere in the design of action that allows the conservation and dissemination of traditional toponymy. And that's why we're going to accept the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block with a transaction on the original text, as it results in the necessary involvement of all public administrations in this task. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u257	Thank you very much, Mrs. Antonio. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u258	Good morning again. I, without any boldness, Mrs. Antonio, because to spit bile we already have Mr. Pazos here in the Chamber, I, reading the initiative, thought this initiative did not... [[Murmurs.]] I say that I, without accuracy, that to spit bile is already Mr. Pazos, I say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u259	Quiet. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u260	Like Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u261	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u262	We should remember at some point that we're not in a bar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u263	Please be quiet, everyone. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u264	Let's go with the initiative. Mrs. Antonio, when I read the initiative, recalling a phrase someone said in this House as if it were a belligerent initiative, I saw Berenguela, directly. [[Applause]] You speak, and you mentioned it in your explanatory statement now in your intervention explaining and presenting the initiative of the Galician toponymy project, which has been underway since 2000, seventeen years, and of course we see that the initiative would be well incorporated into something new, but you also referred now in your intervention to that the novelty in which the Italian Government itself is working in recent years is the development of that mobile application that can allow the population to go directly incorporating these toponyms, above all the microtoponyms; it was presented in press appearance on 29 November by the Secretary-General of Linguistic Policy; among other actions, a calendar for the next months of presentation of this campaign by different localities and districts of the country, and it is that, in addition, was already announced by the Vice-President of the Galician Council and Amtega in June 2016. We from the BNG believe that collecting, registering, documenting and disseminating the toponymy and Welsh microtoponym is absolutely essential, it is a project that is absolutely necessary, it has been well underway for many years, it is also true that with a remarkable pull from the Bipartisan Government when the set of areas of Galician Union itself was involved in the development and momentum of this initiative to collect our toponymity, but more is to comply with the vigorous legality, which, as you know, provides article 10 of the Law on Linguistic Standardization, in which it is collected that the only legal and legitimate form of our country's toponymity is the Galician. Thirty-four years after the passing of that law, this obligation is not yet met. I invite them to something: pick up computers or a mobile, a device that allows them to access the Internet, and access the State's Official Gazette; pick up the 2017 State general budgets, press the search engine and type Orense or type Tuy, and see; in an official document, in an official document collected in the State's general budgets for 2017. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Do you want to come up here, Mr. Tellado? I see you're anxious to intervene, I don't have any problems. Do you want it? Well, I respect the intervention of others. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] I invite you to find out what is the treatment of our toponyms in the Official State Bulletin and in concrete, by setting an example, in the general budgets of the State. It's a case, there's a lot of them. We have already brought from the BNG to this House in concrete, for example, those referred to in the Ministry of the Interior and to the Administration of Justice. The practice of all official documentation coming out of the Spanish Administration violates the law on toponyms and violates the language rights of this country in a repeated manner. Private companies, media, municipalities and provincial deputies maintain signage and collect toponymity in illegal versions: La Coruña, Villagarcía, Tuy, Orense... What we've been complaining about since the BNG with our amendment is that the Galician Board fulfills and enforces article 10 of the Law on Linguistic Standardization. That would be a novelty, though the demand is not new either. If we pick up or recapitulate or see the hemerothec, a good set of initiatives proposed by the Nationalist Block in this area would be approved within this House. The first, in 1995, was driven by the honourable Member at that time by Pilar García Negro; others in subsequent years: in 1998, in 2002, in 2003, and the most recent, in June this same year, in 2017. What we want today is to go beyond your initiative and ask this House and each and every one of us who is part of it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u265	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u266	...to all political organizations represented in this horrhaean palace and, especially, to the Galician Union, to the Greek executive power, how many more decades will have to pass until this primary linguistic right and this legal obligation are fulfilled at once and for all. Finished as it began: collecting, registering, documenting and disseminating the toponyms and Welsh microtoponyms is fundamental, it is a basic exercise in the recompiling of our history as a people, but also that this toponyms is respected in the only official and legal form that exists, which is in Greek. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u267	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia to Mrs Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u268	Thank you, President. There are many Welsh and Welsh people who when they die leave in possession some kind of rustic farm, a land of farming or irrigation, a vineyard, a brick, a meadow, farms and plots that often come described in ancient writings from great-grandparents or great-grandparents, and which refer to places that, based on the singularities of topographical, geological, historical places, assume names linked to themselves or at least descriptive of how they were on their day. So Galicia is full of toponyms and microtoponyms. In the municipality for example Barro is Triabá and in Triabá are Agriño but there are also Agriño de Ariba, Tella, Prado, Cortine do Maestre, Armentón; places that become unrecognizable for being lost in oral transmission by going to the finishing the people who inhabit the places, who work the farms, who travel the mountains, who use the streams. Loss of identity and history that hangs on a small thread and that shows, in addition, that our Welsh land is the richest in all of Europe, with almost half of the Spanish toponyms, about 41,400. These toponyms are saved because they're registered, at least registered. The problem comes with microtoponym, much more extensive and sensitive to disappear. About two million microtopones are estimated on our land. We are concerned about this Parliamentary group on two main issues. On the one hand, we believe that the recovery of microtoponym is necessary and important, but that you don't have to assume the abandonment of the diffusion and put in value of the already normalized and registered toponymity. The task of obtaining a nominator is the obligation of the Board to put it into force and to require all public bodies first and companies linked to georeference and geographic location, as it can be Google, to correct the incorrect meanings of the toponyms, which so little helps to the dissemination, use and conservation of these toponyms. Today and after having been passed by commission in June of this same year upon request to the Government to respect the Italian toponymity, we continue to find Mugiía, Lage and Arteijo as towns in the province of La Coruña. So they increase the monitoring work in compliance with the correct use of all these toponyms, which has not to end in mere registration and approval by the Toponyms Commission, but rather they have to boost their dissemination and normalization of use. And as for microtoponyms, you're telling us about the development of a collaborative tool for the revision, correction and updating of the Galician denominator. It draws attention to the fact that today they present it as an initiative when, in March of this year, they have already bided the service for the debugging of the database of population entities for the elaboration of the Autonomic Basic Plan and normalization of toponyms in cartography, in October, they have just presented the bidding of the development service of a system for the collaborative collection of toponyms elements and in November, indeed, a outreach campaign. The word "initiative" means -- and they correct me if I'm wrong -- "proposal or idea that's useful for starting something." What we've found is that this is already started and even some of the works we've applied for are already finished. So this has very little on its own. They once again occupy this House with proposals that respond to the rather agile fulfilment of their legal obligations as Government and on which we cannot bring about or debate the opposition. The Galician Toponymy project makes an explicit call to the collaboration of associations, groupings, schools, neighbors, neighbors. We have made it clear that this is the way to multiply the effectiveness of the search and preservation of the toponyms, but we are concerned about the coordination part of all the works already done, about the rigour in the use of that platform, as well as being a suitable tool for the larger ones, because these are precisely the most sensitive and relevant and subject to disappearance. To coordinate and order what has already been done so as not to double our efforts, we think it's fundamental. Even so, we understand that for this purpose it would be necessary to sign and articulate agreements, especially with the municipalities, in order to put in place that control filter that coordinates all the works done at the local level and join search modes and to cover the geographic areas that lack information. Not everything can be voluntary, there'll be a plan B. And by the way, it seems to have come to know what will be done to ensure the recovery and conservation of microtoponyms. If we are concerned about microtoponyms and its conservation, we understand that thinking of urban planning tools is paramount, so that in areas of expansion of towns and cities, when new industrial soils, new streets, equipment or squares are created, the conservation of microtoponyms, persistence, prevalence and transformation of the territory does not imply the loss of identities and the history of places, because intangible cultural heritage cannot be condemned to reflect only in books; turning it into living testimony in history is the obligation of this government. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u269	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea has the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u270	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. It is said in the initiative put forward by the People's Party that will urge the Union to move forward, but in fact, it should be said that it will urge the United Nations to be resurrected, to resurrect a project that has been under way for more than a decade and died with the cuts of this government. After the publication of the official nominator in 2003, still with Fraga, and being Jaime Pita President's advisor, the fieldwork began to assign the exact geographic coordinates, i.e. to refer to all the living toponymy, i.e. the one recognised by local oral informants. They gave him quite a blowjob, he appeared in many hemerothecs, the PTG—the Galician Toponym project—has spread a lot, has a website, which, in addition, has been varying in appearance but has not increased its contents from the Bipartite, when it was still a live and active project. It is good that if you come back, of course, it is fine, but the decision to resume the PTG — perhaps now with another name, we don't know — is being announced years ago, but it has not just come true. If you want this initiative to start now, let it really be and it will start again. There really is a part of your exposure, which is the initial part, that should correct -- we believe -- not because it's wrong, not because it's not true. When it is said that toponymy is the science that studies the names that we identify certain spaces in the territory, here really what we're talking about is toponymy as an intangible heritage, which is another meaning of the word. It would seem otherwise that Parliament would urge the Union to promote a particular scientific discipline. So we're talking about a set of place names, the words we've identified and that help us identify the territory, and, in addition, the science that deals with your study. So we also believe that the law must be applied. There's a lot of law, there's a very broad law: self-regulation, state legislation and international law. We also want to do special fincapé in Law 3/1983, of June 15, of linguistic normalization. There are a lot of questions we could talk about. And, of course, what if we have very clear - and I think this is shown in all the exhibitions and interventions of the different groups - is that we really have to ensure that in the road labelling, among other things, the official names on the nomenclature are used. There are many new labels on public roads, highways and roads, both of state ownership as well as autonomous or provincial ones, which present the toponyms with different forms that appear in the nomenclature as officers; things like "Cobas" instead of "Covas", "San Ciprián de Viñas" by "San Cibrao das Viñas", and many others that have already been mentioned here. And the Government has the duty to ensure that this is accomplished, and the responsibility for all the errors lies with the Union. That, at least, besides, they enable a place where people can complain about mistakes. We'd like to make an amendment in your voice about what we just said. It's an addition amendment: the Board is urged to comply with its duty to ensure that on the road labeling the official names listed in the nomenclature are used, and the Board is also urged to enable a place where people can complain about mistakes. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u271	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u272	Mrs. Rodil, I too have no accuracy — because we have come here in good tune and we are not going to spoil it now — but you see Berenguela because you don't like to see that the People's Party governments are proactive, very proactive, in favour of language and in this case also in favour of toponymity. And it requires concretion in the non-law proposition of the People's Party, when really its amendment of concrete I'm sorry but it has absolutely nothing. So, we're going to stay in a quicky-fity. Mrs. Pierres, you know or should know - you wouldn't say it to your colleagues - but in this House itself, in Commission 1a, a few days ago, a requirement was passed on to Google Maps to correct the toponyms in Galicia. And also in that committee, in the debate between the different groups, it became clear that the Galician Union, in view of the freedom of any company, has a very low margin of manoeuvre. But you won't be left to do it again, because it is true that the General Secretariat for Linguistic Policy has already addressed this company on more than one occasion specifically. You, by your intervention, consider that everything is done with the bids of the projects I have named before. Well, actually, if you think so, you won't see any sense in this non-law proposition. But, as I said, it's about persevering in this work and putting the emphasis on those more than two million that you just recognized that there was or are said to be microtopones. Mrs. Cuña, I would tell you that you know that the toponyms work never ends, because the toponyms is also something alive, it's something that's constantly changing, variable, mutant. And, indeed, there may be times when you work with more or less intensity, but what's true is that you never stopped doing any recovery work on the part of the People's Party. More importantly, I'd say it was the People's Party that most instrumentalized and most vicars put precisely for the recovery of toponymity. And on the specific demand that you make for a place for complaints and mistakes, I'll tell you that this place is in the General Secretariat of Linguistic Policy. In fact, the General Secretariat for Linguistic Policy collects and transfers all errors that come to you in a particular or associative way without any problems. About your amendment, if you like, we can talk later, since you finished it here today. For me, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u273	Thank you very much, Mrs. Antonio. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the launch by the Government of Galicia of the necessary assessments for the knowledge of improvement in the language competence of the student who participates in some of the multilingual programs that are being developed in the last courses
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u274	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u275	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are here once more willing to try to get a series of programmes to which you have referred — as it is obvious that it had to be — the counsellor in his presence to evaluate, something as elementary as any public policy, whether in education, whether in ports or on roads, to evaluate whether you are giving the results that you intend to give this famous implementation assessment, which we do not know very well why we have been questioned permanently in Commission 4a, where on more than one occasion we have talked about the same matter. As you all know, and in particular those people who have responsibilities in education in this Parliament, the Education Counsellor, at the end of the last course, in June, spoke of this famous Greek foreign language strategy 2020, a strategy that seems to us with a proper, necessary, desirable approach and even — if they hold me back — well designed — things like they are. I mean, we can question whether multilingualism is well-designed about the decree that supports it, but not what we're talking about in this case, which are the plans of this strategy. What we are seriously concerned about — and that is why we are bringing this initiative — is that all this plethora of different initiatives that have been put in place are not being evaluated. We are not looking at whether the result is expected, whether it is necessary, to make some correction, or whether you are acting in a right way. It is clear that the pre-existing plans for this course, with this flourishing Strategy 2020, particularly bilingual sections and multilingual centres, have a very important weakness, because it is very difficult to arrive at the conviction that including an additional hour per week in a foreign language will substantially improve the language competence of the student. As much as in a 4th Commission the Director General of Education, Vocational Training and Educational Innovation spoke of a series of improvements that he has quantified, that is not an evaluation, and we all know that this is not an evaluation; that is simply extracting from existing databases in the Council whether there has been some kind of improvement or not, and, in addition, assimilate, if so, these improvements to these programs in particular, when not all students are studying lessons in centers participating in these programs. What is true is that the star plans designed for this course, i.e. foreign language implementation in child education and also in vocational training — which are called plurifantil and pluriFP Star — did not provoke unanimous applause of criticism and public, because the participation of the centres in these programs left much to be desired, when not manifestly all. We're talking about 31% of the centres that can participate in the multi-child plan and we're talking about 2.7% of them — which looks like an IPC data rather than school participation in the programme — in the case of vocational training centres. We can therefore speak in the latter case — the case of vocational training — of a sudden failure. Still, we believe that these programs should be evaluated and that this evaluation is not being carried out, because there is no ad hoc-designed evaluation, and therefore we cannot give valid reference to those results by the Director-General to which I previously referred. And I can't give valid credit for an evaluation when the station that has regulatory responsibility for the evaluation of the education system, which is the Education Inspectorate, does not participate in any kind of assessment concerning the improvement of language competition. Look, although it's not about doing a monograph about this group of educational administration officials, I'm just going to let them say that within the work of this collective there is what are called structural work areas, because they are given an essential importance for monitoring and inspecting the education system. And within these areas of structural work is, like not, the evaluation of the education system, and there is also a reference to linguistic normalization. Well, the reality is that within the annual plans of the operation of the Inspection there is a considerable number of aspects to be evaluated and that should be monitored: follow-up of the start and end-of-the-course processes, supervision of the student's schooling, supervision of the educational project, monitoring of curriculum realization, monitoring of the annual general plan, monitoring of the collective document of the centres, of the tutorial action plan, monitoring and analysis of the end-of-the-course memories, monitoring, monitoring, monitoring... And also -- and this is very relevant -- there's one that refers to the supervision of the centre's language project. And here, yes, it says, "checking that the analogous treatment of co-official languages and the balance criteria set out in Decree 79/2010 of 20 May for plurilingualism in non-university education" is respected. I mean, the Council's only concern about the decree of multilingualism is that it is found that the same hours are given in English and Spanish on a balanced basis each week. How can it be that the rules governing the annual work of this collective do not refer to a whole chapter of this famous decree of plurilingualism, which is chapter IV, which refers to the provision of materials in foreign languages. How can we possibly have a growing number of programs that are improving, or should they necessarily improve, language competition, but we do not have a single indicator, at any educational or primary or secondary stage, or a bachelor's degree or vocational training, of the improvement of linguistic competition? Because it doesn't exist. And our initiative is as simple as that assessment of this improvement in language competition, because nothing happens because the results are not what is expected. That's what implementation evaluations are for, to correct if correction is needed. But, of course, we have to do it, we have to have objective data, we have to design this evaluation, we have to apply it, and we have to get to the results that are achieved — I insist — for the purpose of improvement. And, therefore, I, Mrs. Chao, ate the coffee shop menu; I say it in case you want to know if the evening optimism I manifest before the genuine approval of this initiative causes you some doubt; food is within reach of all of us. I am sure that the People's Party will support this initiative, because I cannot believe that the People's Party does not consider it necessary to evaluate educational policies, except that the People's Party, together with the high pontiff, is infallible and therefore it is not necessary to evaluate any kind of policy because it is necessarily well done. I want to believe that we are talking about a serious initiative, as I said when the Counsellor came in, a proactive initiative, made with the sole intention of improving the education system, not of making any kind of catastrophe. And with regard to the amendment presented by the Galego Nationalist Block, I want to say that yes, of course, we will accept that addition, because, in addition to this parliamentary group, through my companion Mrs. Burgo López, has presented on multiple occasions initiatives to evaluate the development of this decree, I believe with the same success in all of them. But I'm convinced that this trend can change and it will change from today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u277	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u278	I don't want to break your optimism, Mr. Álvarez. We disagreed — I said at the previous advisor’s appearance — on the central axis, in how we conceive the own strategy of empowering foreign languages in the teaching of Greek, the plan that existed before and the EDUlingual Strategy 2020, which now prevails. We insist on the idea that he was launching at that time: it stems from a conception and an equalization, from equal treatment of linguistic realities and completely different languages. And we believe from the BNG that any plan, any initiative, any policy or strategy aimed at enhancing the knowledge and learning of the many better languages, in the case of a people like ours, of socio-linguistic reality such as Galicia, must always, as they advise it from the Council of Europe and from all other areas, of the language that has been reduced, in this case the Greek. We incorporate with this amendment the Decree — Decree 79/2010 and that it is in accordance with the provisions — the redundancy — into the additional fifth provision, which calls for its application to be evaluated in the various educational degrees annually to be introduced or incorporated into the corrections that were needed. We do not agree with that decree. We will never tire of asking for a derogation and that it was a violation of rights and represents a violation of the linguistic rights of a country like ours, but it is that, in addition, it does not even comply with the provisions of the decree itself, where we speak of 33% of the presence of the Greek language in the educational centers. And of course, reality is stubborn. Despite what was said before we wanted to build a reality that had nothing to do with that in which society interacted, it's not. What we're seeing is that, for example, with the combination of that decree and LOMCE and the entry into force and application of LOMCE, what you've done is to further reduce the presence of the Greek language. And I was referring to a specific case that is very extended by the educational centers of our country: 2nd of the ESO, institute in the city of Coruña, only two subjects in the entire curriculum given in the Greek language, the Language and Literature Galagas and Geography itself. We believe that it must be evaluated, that it must be brought in addition to this House the results of this evaluation and that in all light perhaps what we see is what it has denounced and has been denouncing the BNG since 2010, and that the incorporation of a language as it was English, leaving space for its own language and diminished in this case, the Greek language, which is causing even a decline in language skills acquired by our country's youth in its own language. And I insist on the idea that he was launching at the councillor's audience: these skills are also being developed especially at the earliest ages, not only for learning in that language or learning that language, but also for their regular use. We insist and fully support the initiative proposed here, because, in addition, these language empowerment programs have been expanded increasingly in earlier stages in the case of child education, and — I insist — where the presence of the Greek language is not marginal, not residual, but it is comanche territory — the children's schools are comanche territory. Being able to enter, being able to register a child today in a child's school in the Greek language is an adventure for many families; we have also denounced it here on many occasions. And what we believe is that no further progress can be made in the implementation of this strategy, this model of multilingualism, at least without having above the table or in front of the data on the consequences of its application. I would ask a few questions at the counsellor's meeting. What are the language skills that this student is acquiring in the foreign language mostly because you just have to see the data from the Council itself, mostly English? We would like it if we could enhance so much the learning and the use and knowledge of the Portuguese language, and there was never in public job offers or a single call for the Portuguese teacher, despite the fact that this language has its own law, the Peace-Andrade Law. What is the level acquired in the different subjects, already in the more academic plane, that are given in English? And, above all, if it really is done with that 33 per cent distribution, with which we — I insist — are against; at least 50 per cent of subjects given in the Greek language should be returned, as the General Plan for Linguistic Standardization provides. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u280	Well, hello again. What is clear is that we have different views on the same subject and we share some questions and others because we do not. Of course I'd like to start with Manuel Maria; it's not a coincidence, things are for something. "The speech. Language is the key with which we open the world," he said, "the faintest salouco, the deepest grief." "In the middle say many other things I invite you to read." "If we lose our speech, we won't be anyone." The promulgation of Decree 79/2010 was obviously — and it is evident, what happens is that there is no data, no data, rigorous studies, but should speak them — linguistic deprotection of Welsh, a decrease in presence. And, of course, societies that bet on their language are societies that develop. And we are going to support this initiative because we believe that no public policy can be seriously built without a scientific and transparent evaluation of results. When the advisor talks about statistics, he's not talking about evaluations. That's not an assessment, and we know it well all of us here. What statistics do you show? That's the question. When we're against the decree, we're against it because it's bad; it's obvious that our community is the only community that shrinks in speakers, as much as it tells us there are more speakers than in others; it's also objective and objective data. But while we're still getting into the development of this plan, when a plan of these characteristics is developed, there has to be a cognitive plan, there has to be an affective plan, there has to be above all a fundamental and very serious organizational plan. And what's there is quite chaos. For example, AICLE, which is a methodology that is widely used, is absolutely voluntary, it hasn't been at the teacher's training centers in the past year, nor is it this year. It's a voluntary thing, when it would be a fundamental tool so that teachers and teachers who teach lessons on these levels, especially levels that are central to children and primary levels, not only have language knowledge, but can also be coordinated with other subjects, they can also have these transvasions. This requires reflexive procedures and, of course, rigorous evaluation. Multilingual centres cannot be organized with one operation adding different monolingual competences. This is a total focus error. We also support that many more better languages, but never at the expense of the language itself, which is what is happening. And if they don't, they do the evaluation and then we'll have the tangible demonstration of the results. What do you care? Inspectors have this program of structural work areas, but not just inspectors. On repeated occasions, the three Greek universities offered to provide the Council with the technical tools with all rigor and all clarity, with all independence. They had no answer. Why? This is a good question that requires a coherent answer too, right? If it is offered to assess the state of plurilingualism, why is it refused? We believe that evaluation is not just a tool, it is an obligation that establishes its own legality. So much so that we constantly say, "We comply with the law," they comply with the law. To meet goals and, of course, not to cross points, because there's the Standardization Plan, it's still there. Then they comply with the evaluation of results provided for in additional fifth layout as a step before their update. We don't know why they refuse an offer of loyal institutional collaboration, as the universities themselves say, and why we don't have that analysis. What we do know is that the greatest regression in the use of Greek is taking place at the most decisive levels, both in children and in primary. And we know the importance of specific pedagogical training that demands not only the people who do it on their own, but also many sectors of all kinds. However, if there are aids, which came out on November 28, promoting the use of Greek in the centres, €300,000 aids, which are in force there until January 15th, for a sociolinguistic study, study of the student. Do a study...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u281	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u282	...a rigorous evaluation. Then we'll all have reliable data. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u283	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u284	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. Well, before I started, I wanted to point out a question. Mr. Álvarez, the other day in the Commission I was making the same argument of optimism or talking about the same argument of optimism, and I don't want to become what your optimism is permanently frustrated with, but you will have to understand that I always resort to that argument because I have no choice but to consider what frustrates that permanent optimism, from the point of view you know I have. I'm curious that you have proposed or claimed now this system or an evaluation system to be aware of the results of the policies put in place in the education system when not a long time ago -- you were the first critics with the evaluation strategy that LOMCE put forward. So, LOMCE set up evaluation systems and strategies to see the results of public policies and set up a campaign against these brutal evaluations, and they are now calling for public policy assessments. See, of course, public policy evaluations are based on the drawing of targets and the achievement of results, which can be consistent or not with those targets that have been advanced. But I'm telling you, it's interesting now that you're coming to claim policy assessments of the education system when you yourself have been criticising the possibility of conducting evaluations in the education system for months. It's at least striking. As you know, this board developed in 2010 a plan of empowerment in foreign languages and reformulated, has just reformulated this plan, the result of the new challenges and the current situation, and for that the new EDUlingual Strategy 2020 was developed. As you also know, this year, specifically in 2017, a series of developments have been implemented within what is the linguistic strategy of the Galician Council of Education, which are implementing the Plurinfantil, Pluribach, Bachibac and PluriFP programs. Following the 2017 call for the distribution of Pluriinfantil, the incorporation of 83 centers is a satisfactory response for us. You think it's not satisfactory, but for us, because they incorporate more than 30%, i.e. 31% of multilingual centers that have foreign languages at this educational stage. It is therefore expected that the incorporation of centres will be gradual, as has happened with the call for multilingual centres that has been in place since 2010. That's what I used to say: targets are marked on a time horizon and results are evaluated on the basis of the achievement or not of those targets that are marked on the time horizon. The same is true in the Pluribach program, in the Bachibac program. And you were also talking about the incorporation of vocational training centres, language strategy in vocational training. He said it was 2.7%. We believe it is satisfactory, understanding that this is the first call and that it is also in line with the sections that are already active in vocational training centres, multilingual sections that are already active in these centers. But, of course, there are some goals, some ambitious objectives, which, in the particular case of vocational training, the claim is that in 2021 we have 90 multilingual centres in the FP. That's the goal. The objectives — I say — are then based on which the results must be assessed. That's why if objective evaluations are carried out around the results in their time horizon, as I told you earlier. In assessing multilingualism, we are aware of the added value that possesses the possible certification of the language level achieved by this plan, of course. Since 2010, where multilingual centres have been established, they are working to certify the language level of the student, and in fact, in 2014 — you know — a test has already been developed in collaboration with the official language schools. The collection and analysis of the data being carried out by the Council has given, from 2010 to today, different results, and you can also check them because they are public results. The improvement of all centres in their results in different areas, both linguistic and non-linguistic, had a special impact on multilingual centres with bilingual sections. In this context these centers doubled the improvement results of the rest of the centers. In the language field, the improvement of multilingual centres has also doubled that of the rest of the centres, and it is data that is available to everyone. The improvement in the results in English of the multilingual centres doubled to that of the rest: the increase of 0.99 points in the results, compared to 0.53 of the other centers. In the 2016 university entrance exams, the student in English improved by 1.4 points and in the last three years from an average of 5.28 in 2013 to an average of 6.59 in 2016. We have data, data on the table, and data showing that the targets that have been marked are being met. The same is true at quantitative level, that more than 75% of publicly funded centres are multilingual centers or have bilingual sections, 322 multilingual centers, multiplied by 6 the number of bilingual sections. Both quantitative and qualitative data exist, are being evaluated and there are results. But — I say — all of this bearing in mind a horizon of action on the basis of what we have to have clearly what the results we want to pursue are. And what are the goals? 500 multilingual centres, of which 280 in children's education, 90 in vocational training, 40 centres with excellence in languages, 600 new bilingual sections, double the number of conference assistants up to 1,000 and a total investment of 67.8 million euros. This is the government's forecast for the year 2021. Therefore, targets. And we will certainly assess the results — and if you are doing so. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u285	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u286	Thank you, Mr. President. It's gonna be no, what we're gonna do to him! Mrs. Rodil, thank you for your words. I told him we'd accept his amendment. However, I believe that the discrepancy we have, to which you have made reference, if because of what we have a different conception; you tend to confront the Greek with the foreign language, we believe that these are compatible realities; that is, the fact that increasing linguistic competition in English does not have to decrease, in case it is, as you say, the linguistic competition in Greek, like that minority language to which it refers. It's quite true what you said, but the problem with the failure of the decree of multilingualism, Decree 79/2010, is that that optimal horizon... I remember perfectly — I suppose that as virtually everyone we are here — Mr. Núñez Feijóo — that is yes, seven years younger, like all of us — proud of the state ahead of the linguistic balance that was going to exist in this autonomous community, so that around very little time would be trilingual all the inhabitants of the autonomous community of a certain age; that is, we would all speak Greek, we would all speak Spanish and speak English — understanding that it is the language offered mostly. The reality is, it's not like that. The reality is, in the centers where 33% of these languages should be given, things are clear, the accounts are obvious: in most cases there are 45%-10%, i.e. 45% in English and Spanish, in that balance that must be, and 10% in a foreign language. That's the reality. What must this decree be repealed? Obviously. What's a common defence on the part of the People's Party of this decree? It's obvious, too. I'm going to use the same phrase Mr. Pazos used by quoting Calderon; it's also true that he could translate it, because there's no problem translating Calderon into Greek, it's a language as rich as Spanish at least. I could say, "Nothing's fair if it's not my taste"; it's a rhyme, it keeps rhyme. But if Mr. Paz preferred to stick to Calderón's literal language, nothing happens either. Mr. Fernández Gil, look, I just didn't understand the argument that, as we opposed diagnostic evaluations, we couldn't come and ask for a better assessment of language competition. First of all, the opposition to diagnostic evaluations was conceptual, because they derived and derived from LOMCE, it was a opposition from LOMCE; no one questions sensibly that no evaluations should be made to see if the educational system is responding to what it has to respond to. - I'm done, President. You leave me quite frankly astonished. If 2.7 % is satisfactory, what percentage do you consider bad? It must be negative, because, if not, it's not explained. You said 2.7%. Yeah, I know it's the first year. And I'd like you to tell me where that improvement data is published that you've quoted, which is the same as the director general quoted in his appearance at Commission 4th.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u287	About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u288	About the amendment, yes, we're going to accept it. And the next campaign slogan for the People's Party is we are the very best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u289	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. As noted, there will be a brief change in the agenda, from questions to questions to the Government. Question from Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the current degree of development of the Master Plan of the Way of Santiago 2015-2021
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u290	Whenever you like, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u291	Good afternoon, Counselor. The Socialist Parliamentary Group today wants to ask you about an element with a unique heritage, natural and cultural value, a unique value such as the Way of Santiago; values to which value must be added as an instrument of social cohesion, territorial balance and economic activity. Today, several news goes out in the Greek newspapers where we are about to receive the pilgrim 300,000; that is, in one year they went through some of the nine itineraries of the Way of our community three times more than the population of Santiago de Compostela. The Galician Union has developed the Plan Director of the Way of Santiago 2015-2021, which, according to exhibits, will provide a management tool for the Galician Union and a roadmap that will mark the guidelines for promoting the conservation and protection of the Way in our community. The director plan consists of four objectives, such as protecting and preserving the Way, responding to the needs of the 21st century pilgrim, promoting social cohesion and territorial balance and continuing to constitute the universal identity of Galicia and Europe. There are also five challenges and four axes. Several priority action plans will be grouped on each strategic line with a 2021 horizon. And I'm going to describe some of these strategic lines, such as the conservation and maintenance of Santiago's Way, where actions to drive are road maintenance, road signs and safety on Santiago's Way and an accessible Santiago's Way. Another is the empowerment of all pilgrimage routes to Santiago de Compostela, where the actions to be promoted are the dynamization of the different paths of Santiago and the dissemination of the values and singularity of each of the pilgrimage routes to Santiago. And finally, I'm going to refer to the specialization and quality in the pilgrim care service, which includes integrated management of the public shelter network, improvement of its infrastructures and promotion of excellence in the pilgrim care services. A vision is also established for the year 2021, with action plans and improvements, as well as a communication and marketing plan. And in this schedule for exercise 2017, in this plan of actions and improvements, includes the conditioning of the French Way, the Fistra-Muxia Road and the English Way, being for this year 2017 declared by the Council of Galicia itself as the year of the Fistra-Muxia Road and the English Way. The master plan sets out a series of actions to push for each of these paths, which I remember must be finished by the end of this year 2017. I mean, Counselor, they're still...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u292	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u293	...27 days to comply...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u294	Thank you, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u295	...to be the director plan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u296	The question is understood: Development of the Master Plan of the Way of Santiago 2015-2021. Thank you. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam, you know perfectly well that the last Xacobeo was in 2010. At that time, the Government that resulted from the 2009 electoral process practically did not deal with anything done for the planning and execution of the year 2010. Obviously, this government doesn't want this to happen again, it doesn't want to go through a lack of planning in the field of Xacobeo, and that's why we've been working for a long time now that the Holy Year of Xacobeo 2020-2021 is the best in Galicia's history and is a socio-economic development engine for the municipalities where it goes and for the Galician set. He's being challenged by society. We are all aware that the Jacobean is good for Galicia and the roads demand that, year after year, we be able to improve, progressively, everything that has to do with the Jacobean routes; there are more visitors, more pilgrims... we therefore have a greater responsibility in this area. You said it perfectly: in 2015 a master plan was adopted, with a temporary scenario of the year 2021. There are many strategic lines: institutional coordination, preservation of cultural values, maintenance and maintenance of installations, empowerment of new itineraries... that is, some lines of action that are being implemented. And I do as a general reflection: that something should be done well. And why do I say that? Because — you also mentioned it — we have more pilgrims than ever. The fact that we reach this year the figure of 300,000 pilgrims I think it's very positive, I think that this is a joy for the whole of Galician society. Also in these years we have had new official itineraries approved in the Heritage Law: the Winter Road; the Portuguese Way along the coast; two traces, the North Road and the Primitive Way, have been declared heritage of humanity... the cathedral is undergoing enormous rehabilitation... but the most important, without a doubt, is that there is a general idea — I believe it is silent in Greek society — that the Xacobeo is good for Galicia; that there is one before and one after the promotion of Xacobeo; and that it has a capacity for social, economic and cultural dynamism that is very important in the territories through which it passes. The balance is above the table, there are multiple actions that have developed: new shelters -- there is very little, one was inaugurated in the Fosgrada, with a rehabilitation, by the way, I think very close—; in Ourense, accessibility has improved; there is a diffusion of what new technologies are, with wifi connection; and the whole of the Ways — not only the French Way — is having a good rehabilitation, especially through rural municipalities, where the Way is a source, is an important element of socio-economic dynamisation. There are animation activities — Culture on the Way, Music on the Way, outreach, promotion, fairs, etc. Finally, I believe that the plan is being implemented with planning. And I end up saying the best, no doubt, for the Paths...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u298	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u299	...is that we're in the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u300	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u301	Thank you, Counselor. But let them keep telling us, every time they have to answer to something, that there are things that we let them go without doing, the truth is that it's not good for us, since I have to repeat again that they've been ruling continuously for nine years; that is, that this is no longer good for us as an answer. In any case, I, by applying what you yourself set out in this plan director and in the vision of the 2021 Way, in the model stage, so these three Paths that I just mentioned in the schedule by you have to be completed this year 2017, I'm going to make you manifest many of the deficiencies that are currently, and some of them, of very important silence. For example, the lack of security at various points on the Path; therefore, they are not safe paths. In Cabanas, the change of trace subjected a dangerous point without a safe alternative route; in Pino, three lower steps on N-547 not executed; in the Wind Month, in Orders, a dangerous trace without an alternative safe route; and Sigüerio, Barciela and Marantes were excluded from the route, passing a dangerous route and leaving historic heritage outside; the passage of the Galanas, in Teo, is a step of the Way over the end of the AC-52 highway, which pilgrims must cross — this highway — in a dangerous exit zone of a highway towards a N-550 and without a pedestrian step or signage of any kind. Weaknesses in the Path: wifi is very poor, 80% of the tranches do not have free and open wifi; poor accessibility for people with functional diversity; lack in road signage, unapproved signage; in Melide, in the village of Furelos, a terrible state of conservation through the accumulation of rubble and with a stream running through faecous waters; in Teo, cleaning of the poor road, a very damaged path through the heart of the Casalonga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u302	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u303	In Teo, little visibility on the crossing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u304	Thank you. We got it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u305	...from Pedreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u306	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u307	In Arzua...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u308	It's clear. Thank you, that's it. Thank you. We all understand. Close it, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, there's a difference between a government that had nothing planned a year before and a government that's going to work over time and has a master plan. This plan, the director you say, is already running 50% and obviously we have to keep working. And there will surely be those deficiencies and many others, but it is absolutely quiet, that each of the specific cases that are being dealt with — as could not be otherwise — are being solved, because, look, there are many initiatives being taken. Not long ago a Chair of the Way was set up, a reception centre was set up in the Galleries, and there was a constant dialogue. The result of this ongoing dialogue with the administrations (with the local, inter-autonomic level, state level, and even I would say that at European level) measures are being implemented to correct and solve everything that needs to be resolved. Because you seem to be posing and you're drawing Santiago's Paths as little less than if they were a Way to Mordor, and it's absolutely false. There may be a question that must indeed be settled, but in the vast majority of cases it is perfectly conditioned; with deficiencies which, of course, in so many miles of track, must be corrected. In any case, there's a forecast, there's a schedule. The Xacobeo is not a single year, the Xacobeo is many more preparatory years that make it possible to achieve a common goal. That common goal is that the year 2021 is a reference year to the Galician set, because everyone is going to be looking at us, and it will depend on whether we're up to it or not. I'd tell him the way's in the right direction. And there are also very important aspects in the right line: more and more, the Ways — in addition to the French Way — are having a greater number of users; i.e., the French Way is sharing protagonistism, there is -- let's say -- a diversification of the number of visitors through the Ways. There's also a destabilization, it's not only in the summer when visitors and pilgrims arrive; it's more, in the summer we're seeing how the pilgrims are getting a little down and growing in the autumn and spring. That's very positive, which means that, with the Ways, Galicia is attracting visitors and pilgrims beyond the summer season or beyond a single path, generating, with a diffuse character -- we can say -- a kind of diffuse wealth in the whole territory. I think in the end we are, as I have already said, on the right path and, no doubt, the pre-planning action and in time will enable us to have in 2021 all the Ways of Santiago and everything around them in perfect state of review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u310	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and eight other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the improvements produced at the Salnés Commercial Hospital since the operation of the Integrated Organizational Management Structure System, EOXI
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u311	Question by Mrs. Marta Rodríguez Arias of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u312	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Health Counsellor, we've been attending an irresponsible political campaign in the last few months in the district of Salnes. A campaign in which they are spreading falsehoods about the Salnés Commercial Hospital, falsehoods that are causing confusion and concern in citizenship, falsehoods such as the reform of the Health Act will lead to the dismantling of the Salnés Commercial Hospital, falsehoods such as that the Health Council will eliminate services and resources in our hospital, falsehoods such as that the Council will turn Salnés Hospital into a second hospital, when in the last five years more than EUR 9.4 million has been invested, falsehoods such as that services will be lost at the Salnés Hospital, falsehoods such as patients we will have to move to the Pontevedra Hospital, when in the last five years more than 23,000 displacements have been avoided, and even falsehoods assured the citizens that the Salnés Hospital will be closed, when we all know that with this reform of the Health Law we will have to make clear the existence of these comarcas hospitals. But, of course, it's not the first time this happens in the district of Salnes, as you know. In 2010, this kind of political campaign was also promoted, which assured citizens that the People's Party's Union wanted to close the Salnés Hospital. And what happened after that campaign? Well, after that campaign, what happened is that the Galician People's Party Board not only expanded the Salnés Hospital, but sent over 9 million to reform it and broaden it: it doubled the surgeons and, in addition to their capacity, technology; the emergency service doubled its capacity; in addition, we now have a specific emergency service for children; and soon it will be a reality the day hospital, with 10 boxes for those people who are receiving on-the-job treatment. So, Counselor, this happened in 2010. We even saw that the Socialist Party presented and distributed pamphlets to the citizenry in which it was told that the People's Party's Union would charge to go to the family doctor, that the People's Party's Party's Board would pay 50 euros to the health professionals for giving a discharge to a patient. So, Counsellor, today we want you to answer us about the improvements that the Galician Union, governed by the People's Party, has carried out at the Salnes Comarcal Hospital since the launch of the EOXI structure. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u313	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u314	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that it happens many times, when we talk about politics and the great covenant of health, that the parties fill us with their mouths to say that we are going to defend all health. The reality is that health is usually used as a political confrontation and trying to win a vote. That's a disgrace — I think — because health should have protected it between us all. And, in particular, in the area of Salnés, in the area of Pontevedra, in recent years, I think there has been a great investment, a great investment that has also been, as the honourable Member said in the question, announced that it would be the closure of the Salnés Hospital. Since then, we have continued to increase our services, increase our facilities to make a big improvement. For, as I say, we have increased the provision of care, in addition to having assistance in neurology and cardiology, also with assistance, since 2016, in oncology — patients in that area have no need to come to Pontevedra for any treatment. Since 2012 until the first half of 2017, almost 23,476 events have been carried out in these areas, and these are also acts that are increasing in number year by year. We increased and improved infrastructure with new emergencies, tripled the previous space and, as I said, also separating adults from children — from different care areas — with the new obstetric block and the new surgical block. Phase 1 of this plan director were the new areas of emergency and obstetric block, with entry into operation in June 2016; improvement of the area of choice and expectations; improvement in areas of exploration, treatment, observation and follow-up. For the first time, this hospital has a specific area of pediatric emergencies -- as we said -- new emergencies have adults and children separately. The Salnés Hospital has become a reference to natural birth, and its facilities have bath and resuscitation site of the newborn. Phase 2 of the master plan affected the surgical block: at the entry into operation, in February 2017, the surgical capacity was expanded, both as regards scheduled surgery and as well as outpatient surgery, going from 3 to 5 surgeons, and the recovery and awakening units went from 6 to 10 posts. As far as the new surgical space is concerned, it has been incorporated into the latest advances and new surgical technologies, in a space of approximately 1,500 square meters, and two of its surgeries have been equipped with a camera system that will allow live transmission of operations that take place on the table, both for medical purposes and teachers. And in phase 3, new psychurgic awakening — adaptation to the middle — which went into operation on October 20th. So, we understand that we're getting better...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u315	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u316	...year by year, month by month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u317	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u318	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, I think it is very important today to deliver a message to the citizenry of Salnés, a message to say that it is a lie that the Salnés Hospital is going to close, that it is false what they are telling you; that it is worthy that you go out on the street and claim a worthy health for our comarca, because, if that was the goal, all the Members of the People's Party yesterday would be in the demonstration that was held in Vilagarcia, if that was the real reason for this demonstration. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But you and me and a lot of people know that that's not the real reason, because it's very curious that during the Bipartite stage -- really, Counsellor? -- coincided with the worst health situation in the Salnes district, the platform had announced its dissolution claiming that there were no reasons for its continuity. Remember? Remember when you turned on again? In 2009, when the People's Party returns to the Government of Galicia. And now it turns on, why? Because we have more hospitals; because we have more services; because we have better emergencies; because our children have a specific pediatric service; because people who need an oncology treatment have the Salnes Hospital, they don't have to travel to the hospital in Pontevedra; so now the platform is activated. [[Applause]] And look, I'd like to deliver a clear message today: a People's Party Government built the Salnés Hospital, a People's Party Government opened the third floor of the Salnés Hospital, a People's Party Government expanded the area of emergency, and the surgeons were doubled, a People's Party Government set up a public and private parking lot at the Salnés Hospital, a People's Party Government expanded the services of the Salnés Hospital, and a People's Party Government stabilized the staff of the workers. What happened to the opposition in the county...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u319	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u320	...from Salnés? Nothing, lies and falsehoods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u321	Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, you'll answer now... the counsellor's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u322	Thank you, President. Yes, I totally agree. The truth is, the more you move forward, the more you move forward... [[Laughter]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u323	No, shut up. Excuse me, just a moment. Excuse me, Counselor. No, sorry, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The applause is free, the applause is free, I'm not going to get in there; another thing is if it's a rude applause or... that's another story. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not going to get into it. [[Murmurs.]] So that goes with the dignity of the groups, that I can't... I can't punish that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But there you are, that is part of the Members. There's more here. Of course, that's a danger. [[Murmurs.]] No, shut up, it's over. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counselor, continue, please. Quiet, let's... we have to be able to fit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u324	Thank you very much, President. We're really moving forward in health, I think safely, improving services, improving facilities, and, as I say, we're not stopping here either. We are already at the final stage of equipment and care integration of the new medical hospital of the day, which will be running early in 2018. There will also be a new sterilization area that will be by 2018, which will allow us to further improve the surgical performance of this area. I mean, Salnes' surgical block right now is one of the best in all Sergas hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, we're working on public health in Salnes with investments and further improvements. The recent expansion of the Salnés Hospital has increased by 27% its spaces and resources with an investment of 9.4 million euros. This includes additional investments in technology recently made, such as the new radiology room — EUR 264,000 — or the new digital radiographic detector. Next year 2018, as I said, we will provide this hospital with a new sterilization area that will enhance its care capacity with greater security and effectiveness, as well as a new day hospital equipped with 10 boxes, central control, warehouses and pharmacy. The reform of the Health Act will shield the assistance of this hospital by advancing the model initiated with the integrated management organizational structures, in which we have invested more than 19.6 million euros in Galicia in the expansion and modernization of the comarcas hospitals. Integrated management has avoided in Salnes over the past five years more than twenty-three thousand shifts to patients, displacements that — I say — we will continue to avoid them so that they can be cared for. In addition, the new territorial organization we put in will enable greater coordination between primary care and hospital care, more effective, with care coverage carried out with the same care criteria and derivation between centres, single area protocols and greater interaction of professionals on both levels of care. Ladies and gentlemen, as you see, we work to manage resources rigorously and we will improve our infrastructure as a guarantee of better care for patients and their families, because health has to be a commitment from everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u325	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u326	I just... I think time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u327	I stopped it, but fifteen seconds were the pass-by, fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u328	Simply saying that we will continue to increase the investment in health in this area and, of course, the Gran Montecelo project will make the area of Pontevedra...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u329	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u330	...and Salnés are the best areas in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u331	Thank you. Question by Da Eva Solla Fernández and two other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to ensure the right to health of the neighbours affected by lindane pollution in the municipality of Porriño
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u332	You have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u333	Thank you, President. Counselor, good afternoon. I'm glad you're here today because we're talking about a serious matter. We're going to talk about a subject of extreme urgency and gravity: the impact of the health of the neighbors and neighbors of the Puppies because of the Lindano. Between 1947 and 1964, Zeltia made Lindano and other toxics in her Porriño factory. The Lindan, as his lords know, is a chemical that was used as a pesticides, known in Galicia, the most common, such as ZZ. This product is a lipophilic product, that is to say, it is fixed to fat and it is deposited in it without it being eliminated. Absorb both by dermal means, through the skin, as inhaled, or by injection, by means of water or by consuming vegetable or animal food containing it. It has a high bioaccumulation and is qualified as a persistent organic compound. In 1979 the European Economic Community had already banned its agricultural use, in 1984 it regulated the waste and in 2008 any use was prohibited for its extreme toxicity. Directive 2013/39/EU of the European Parliament also lists the catalogue as a priority and dangerous substance. The World Health Organization has catalogued Lindane, the content of scientific evidence, as cancer for humans, within Group 1 where the most dangerous contaminants are grouped. It causes tumors, liver damage, hormonal disorders and other problems, and, as we said, it doesn't get rid of the body. In the municipality of Porriño it is estimated that there could be 1,000 tons of waste from the production derived from the lindane; in many cases, in the place where the factory was previously located, and on which official shelters were built in 1975. Since then, no administration has taken any effective action. In 1999, Junta launched an analysis, a study of the soil, and the only thing that was made effective, practically, were the analyses themselves, measurements of the concentrations of lindane isomers. Mr. Almuña, there is a public health problem of the first order and we are alarmed that you are not currently treating this as the first health problem facing the Council of Galicia at the moment. Before the appearance, again, of lindane outdoors, the barbarity of asphalt was allowed above, they told the neighbors not to drink and not shower, and it took you three days to close some well. They're not paying attention to the health of neighbors and neighbors. The Lindan still appears buried in the streets, and there are houses of official protection and even a park on top. This photograph is a few days ago and continues to appear pretty on the floor. In Aragon they are beginning a encapsulation process and are attending this situation with individual protective equipment. I'd like to know if you value the risk that people are suffering and tell us what measures they're going to take to ensure the right to health of affected neighbors and neighbors. How will they control the affect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u334	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u335	...and what training will the professionals of the Galego Health Service be given?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u336	Thank you. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u337	Mr. President, good afternoon again. Thank you. The first thing I have to say is that soil pollution by lindane from the Porriño Town Hall is a problem that had its origin several decades ago, from the residue that was generated in the process of producing the saying insecticide by the companies that were implanted in the industrial district of Torneiros. Currently, the insecticide saying has been banned since 2001, so it is not manufactured, but Galicia stopped manufacturing it many years before this prohibition; specifically, in 1964. These wastes, given their mechanical characteristics, have been used for years as a firm and filled with various ways of the municipality of Porriño. While there was good belief that the scope of the problem was confined to the area of the Torneiros polygon, as a result of the follow-up by the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, there was the possibility that this contaminant would be present in the soils in a new area called Source-The Contrast. In view of these indications, the Galician Union commissioned the study of the company Applus+ to try to determine the source of the contamination in this area, through the Environmental Advice. Even if we were based on the hypothesis of possible soil contamination, we had no information on its location. In the last month of October, during the execution of works of the sewer network on a street in the Fonte-O Contrasto area, the presence of a large amount of Lindane was detected, which, according to the neighbors, was used several decades ago in the filling and firm of the road. From there we work in coordination with the Environmental and Health Counsellors, along with the Council of the Child and also the Hydrographic Confederation. In addition, we held meetings involving public health and primary care personnel and managers of Vigo's EOXI, with the aim of providing information on this matter to professionals, so that possible victims could be identified and provided adequate attention. The analytical results confirm that the white residue is lindane and the soil sample results from the presence of this toxic. At first, through the Porriño Town Hall, the recommendation is made that people in the affected area do not consume water from nearby wells, sources or sources if analytical results are not available indicating the absence of lindane contamination. So, the first thing you say, what actions? The first, of course, is to eliminate the possibility of this toxic to human consumption. In addition, taking into account the results of the soil samples, while the characterization and delimitation of the affected area are not carried out, also through the Porriño Town Hall, it was recommended to the neighbors that no grown food be consumed in the affected area. In parallel to all of this, and in a coordinated manner between the Health Council and the Environment Council, and, as I say, the Porriño Town Hall, a field work was started in order to carry out the sampling of the wells and water flows that use the neighborhoods of the affected area, in order to adjust the recommendations given so far and make the use of some of these waters compatible with the assurance that there is no exposure to water contaminated by Lindano. 60 water tests have been performed today, and in 2/3 the result is that in 2/3 there is no contamination...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u338	You have another shift, Counselor, then.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u339	...and in 1/3 it is. And through the Porriño Town Hall, we have referred the appropriate recommendations to ensure that there is no exposure of people through drinking water...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u340	You've got another shift, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u341	...doing the follow-up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u342	I understand this is an important question, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u343	...and that on the side of the Dormouse Town Hall if a solution is to be decided...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u344	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u345	...definition for the supply of drinking water in cases...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u346	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u347	...in which pollution was detected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u348	Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u349	Counselor, they didn't do anything at all. There have been months and a half that the lindane appeared on the roads, when a hydraulic maintenance work was done; but since 1975 buildings have been on waste, it is known to all of you. Phase three, phase five... buildings were built after it was known that there was a lindane. And what did you guys do? Not even within this month and a half have taken any kind of measure: the health personnel know absolutely nothing about what they have to do, the neighbors are not paying attention in a specific way, there is no kind of protocol. You should be there every day. How can you say you're happy to tell them they don't drink water or don't shower? You need to make sure that type 1 carcinogen doesn't reach the population. It should be the highest responsibility and concern, not only for you, but for the President of the Government. It's a barbarity! Do you know how they're removing and encapsulating waste in Aragon after complaints and social protests? They use autonomous protective suits, with an autonomous breath, such as those used in another type of hazardous waste type 1. People in Porriño take the lindano with their hands. There's a park on top of the beautiful, buildings on top of the beautiful. But this is also a class issue, Mr. Almouniña, because humble people don't care, and they can take over the housing of official protection for many decades that nothing is done at all. Of course they know where the pretty guy is! Obviously, in the places where it was used for parking. You have to investigate, and that's your responsibility, too, where those wastes have been stopped. But there are areas that have been located for decades. What's happening right now is very serious, Mr. Almuña, they're endangering the health of neighbors and neighbors. They haven't done anything at all, and tell me what kind of analytics, what kind of protocol and what kind of action they're going to take. There are neighbors in the Tide Group waiting to hear their answer. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u350	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u351	Mrs. Solla, I will not allow you to say that we don't care about the citizens of the Baby. I won't let you! [[Applause]] You're the only one who's interested in doing demagogy, trying to scare people into the body. That's the only thing that interests you; you don't care about the people of Porriño at all. We take action from the very beginning, the measures that need to be taken according to the results of science, epidemiology, not inventions or witchcraft, we do what we have to do. You're the only one who comes here is to make money policy, from which you're scaring a population that doesn't have to scare you, and, of course, I don't agree that they say we don't care about humble classes; it's a shame and I ask you, of course, to take that away. [[Applause]] We continue to work from the first day, and we will continue to work, because, of course, we care a lot about the health of the population and, as I say, we continue to do what we have to do: research into possible exhibitions, trying to find the sources, and make a project -- it's doing the Environmental Counsellor -- to try to see if there's to be an encapsulation or what to do; but the most important thing in the whole of poisoning, or possible poisoning, is to eliminate, of course, the risk to the population. That's what we're doing. Probable cases of acute poisoning: among the people surveyed there were 14 people who reported dermatological injuries that occur in recent months, so it would comply with the definition used of "probably acute poisoning"; thanks for these are mild poisonings, as described in the literature. But we keep going. Another lie that you say: there's no training for health care workers. He spoke to the staff of the primary care center of the Porriño, and also to the specialists of the Cunqueiro Alvaro, who is the responsible center. How do you say you haven't reported health care? We studied dwellings, with an inquiry, knowing at every moment what people took contaminated water, to take, logically, actions about it. And we go on, we go on: the first step always, and the most definitive, is to avoid that exposure. The next step will consist of drafting, and there is already in it the Environmental Council, a project where it delimits itself and details the area to be acted on, defining contaminated soil surfaces and thicknesses, as well as the civil work necessary for its withdrawal and management. Due to the presence of isomers and levels and traces exceeding the levels established by the real decree, in the results, both in some wells and in perforations or surface streams, the Health Council considers it necessary, as a preventive measure, to close all wells and sources of spring of the new affected area; wells and sources with results favourable to the isomers of the lindane. However, the requirements that are immediately related are met; it could be considered extraordinary, as an alternative, to limit supply and to have a proper filtration system, to have favorable results, and, in these cases, the Health Council would undertake to carry out a follow-up, to collect a periodic sample until another solution was enabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-04-DSPG051.u352	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up. Quiet! Thank you. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
