ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u1	Let's start the session. [[Pause.]] Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mrs. Magdalena Barahona Martín has justified her absence. Quiet, please. Developmental modification of the plenary session and change of agenda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u2	Before I get on the agenda, I want to comment on some changes that have already been spoken to by the spokespersons. In particular, the third plea, which is an appeal to the Health Counsellor, on land health transport, will be debated today in the afternoon; as will the questions also to the Health Counsellor, which are presented in fifth and sixth places. And I also have to tell them that it has been withdrawn by its authors the interpellation that appears in the first place. So let's start with the order of the day. First point. Take note of the Committee on the Statute of Members of the European Parliament of 21 March 2017 on the declarations of activities of the Members of the European Parliament and of the Members of the European Parliament
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u3	For the reading of the commission's dictation, your president, Mr. Pedro Puy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u4	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Tell me from the Committee on the Statute of the Deputies on the Declarations of Activities of the Members of the European Parliament and of the Members of the European Parliament. The Committee on the Statute of Members, at its meetings of 2 and 21 March 2017, raises this proposal for its inclusion on the agenda with the following background. The Commission has studied and examined the declarations of activities submitted by the Members of the X legislature for the purpose of drawing up the following proposal on the basis of the following legal basis: First. The Committee on the Statute of Members has carried out its work in accordance with Article 16.2 of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen have an obligation to communicate in writing any changes that occur in their activities and that may affect their functional or economic situation as a parliamentary or parliamentary. In line with this obligation, the commission, for its part, assumes a permanent role of reviewing the situation and maintaining or subsequently modifying its proposal. Second. In the exercise of his function of verification, he compared the statements presented with the causes of incompatibility set out in Articles 4 and 6 of the 8/1985 Autonomous Law of 13 August, of elections to the Galician Parliament, and its conformity with Article 6 of the 5/1985 Organic Law of 19 June. Ended and unanimously issued the following statement: The Members of the European Parliament of Galicia and the Members of the X Parliament are not at this moment, the content of the documentation presented, in matters of incompatibility and, therefore, they can exercise fully the rights and duties inherent in the parliamentary office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u5	Thank you, Mr. Puy. If you think so, we vote for this by consent. [[Approved by consent.]] They all agree. It is therefore approved by consent. We continue with the agenda, with the second point. Mr. Advocate of Fairy's Opinion, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u6	For this you have the word of Mr. Landlord.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. My appearance today is to present the general lines of the Business Council in the present legislation. It ends with the round that over the last few months we have done all government members to advance the goals of each autonomous department; a few months in which we have not been stopped, but on the contrary, we have worked around to approve budgets in less than one month; to eliminate taxes for young people, large families and people with disabilities who decide to live in less populated areas; to cancel the general wage adjustments that we had to apply temporarily due to the economic crisis; we have already resumed, therefore, the full extra payments for all public employees; we encourage collective bargaining by matching the working conditions of 1,800 professionals of the Equality and Wellness Consortium; we continue to reduce the average period of payment to our suppliers; we have completed a year longer the public deficit; and we strengthen self-government, with our own tribunal, to solve contractual resources in Galicia and be the first autonomous community to start the debate on the new model of self-financing by introducing the expert approach. And we were able to do all of this because we have stability, because the Greeks have opted mostly for a stable government; we have continuity in policies and management, which is allowing for the greatest growth in nine years; and we have planning, we don't improvise; we know what we want and how we achieve it. We count on the Strategic Plan 2015-2020 as a key tool for consolidating Galicia's full economic recovery, starting from a new model based on knowledge, environmental sustainability and territorial cohesion, which seeks sustained growth, around 2.5 % of GDP, and lowers the unemployment rate to around 10%. After the first two years of his vigil, we can claim that the Strategic Plan is being useful and serving to meet the objectives. But we are rigorous and we will fully monitor the progress of transversal targets, an assessment of the main indicators of results of strategic targets and spending programs and an operational follow-up with the degree of progress of the different lines of action that contribute to the achievement of those strategic targets. All this so that the Strategic Plan will continue to be the roadmap of the Galician Union until 2020 and correct the targets or action lines that do not show the expected results without justification. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with legislation with many challenges, but with a great priority objective: to complete the economic recovery of Galician citizens by a new model of growth that is more resistant to future cycle changes. To achieve this we need to deepen on the model of Galicia's own growth that we have achieved in recent years, with healthy and sustained growth. And why do I say complete economic recovery? Because, fortunately, the situation has nothing to do with what was at the beginning of the past legislation, and we've been growing more and more solid for three years. The latest figures on the closure of 2016 reinforce this improvement, for example, the 2016 GDP. The Greek economy grew by 3.4 in 2016, and it was one of the best behaviors in Spain, two tenths better than the average. This is the best growth data since 2007. We are converging with Spain and Europe. We've grown up three consecutive years, with behavior in 2015 better than in 2014, and in 2016 better than in 2015. But also, I'm less unemployed. Galicia closed 2016 with 22,894 unemployed less than in 2015, with a 10% decrease. It's the biggest fall since the start of the crisis. We've had more than three years of consecutive unemployment reductions in annual evolution, and Galicia is at unemployment levels below seven years ago. Recruitment also increased by 7.55 % in 2016 and undefined contracts grew by 9.8%, and full-time recruitment did so by 8.7%. The data we know today is still positive. In March, there's 9.4% less unemployed than a year ago, and in addition to recruitment generally, it's nearly 15% down. But also, less deficit. Galicia met again in 2016 the public deficit target, which fell to 0.54% of GDP, below the limit, because of the 0.7% that we had autonomous communities. Galicia is consolidated as the reference community of budgetary stability again in 2016, with a deficit below the average in 3 tenths. I reiterate once again at Parliamentary level our commitment to meet again in 2017 the deficit target set at 0.6 % of GDP and thus set in our budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, fulfilling the objectives of budgetary stability is one of the foundations of the healthy growth model that we are pushing. Galicia bets on reducing deficit and spending on interest so as to be able to devote more resources to social spending and investment. But also, less debt. Thanks to this control, Galicia is consolidated among the autonomous communities with less debt from Spain. We closed 2016 with a GDP debt ratio of 18.7%, almost the same as in 2015, and 6.2 points below average. In 2016 we reduced debt interest to 38.3 million euros, which amounts to 92 million if we take into account the last two exercises. Galicia is the autonomous community that has increased its debt volume less since 2008, and currently maintains a debt considerably below the average, when in 2008 it was higher. As for the investor effort, Galicia was located in 2016 as the second largest investor community, twice as much as the average. But also, export record. Exports of goods and services increased last year by 5.5%, 1.3 points more than the previous year. In this good evolution it was key to the record of foreign trade, as Galicia first exceeded the 20 billion euro barrier. I'm now going to report the ten main lines of action planned for this legislation. First, we will consolidate the economic recovery of citizens with sound and sustained growth. We've been in full four years with steady and progressive economic growth, and we're intensifying convergence with Spain. Once we've reached international progress over 3%, we want to keep growth steady. Galicia comes out of the crisis with a more modern and better-prepared economy for the future. We've achieved a healthy growth to have a healthy economy that runs away from bubbles and bets on a productive and competitive economy. In three years we were able to recover the lost GDP in the previous six years, and since 2009 we have improved two per capita GDP positions in the set of autonomous communities and raised it to 89.1%. And the most important thing is that recovery is not only of wealth, but also of employment. We created 40,000 full-time jobs in two years. We also reinforce the weight of public spending, which earns 1.4 points in relation to before the crisis, and now represents 16%, which we had in 2008; right now, in 2016, it's 17.4%. Finally, Galicia comes out of the crisis with a more modern, more open economy, with better services, with a primary sector that has a future, with an increasingly competitive industry and strengthened public services. Secondly, as a strategic line, we're going to work to achieve an autonomic financing model that meets the needs of the Greeks. Without a doubt, one of the most important aspects of this legislation will be the revision of the system of autonomous financing. And, modestly, I think we're starting well. We have already agreed with the expert appointed by Galicia to address this review and we approve a motion on the position we must defend. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the current model is not satisfactory for a number of reasons. The main ones: it's insufficient and little resistant to crises; it doesn't count on a map of services that quantifys the cost of services of its service; it doesn't properly collects exceptional circumstances that our community has, such as the great dispersion and the high aging of its population. So there's an insufficient assessment of the dispersal variable and a weight of the population protected by the aging factor away from reality. That's why we want to introduce more steps from 65 years of age, because it's not the same cost in social services and health services for a 65-year-old, 85-year-old or 95-year-old. In Galicia we have almost one hundred and ten thousand people 85 or more. What is Galicia's aspiration? We want a system that guarantees the financing needs of the public services we provide. And we want to deal with it among all in order to address it in a way would be the need to review the model and frame the priorities and deadlines to address it. The January Conference of Presidents was a good start, because Galicia defended its position and listened to the position of others. Among all of us are the foundations for agreeing on the revision of the model of self-financing based on three principles: actual cost of services, multilaterality and stability. It is essential to finance the actual cost of services. And for that we need to know what it costs them in every community, with their uniqueities and specificities, and in particular health, which in Galicia accounts for more than 40 percent of the budget. It is essential that the resources that are integrated into the system are negotiated multilaterally, with criteria which guarantee the same quality in the provision of services irrespective of the territory in which they are provided. And it's also essential that the new system of self-financing brings stability and a vocation of permanence, so health and dependence must have these separate ones. This review is already under way and, given the transcendence it will have for our autonomous community, we look forward to the support of the other parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen, I reiterate that our strategy will be guided at all times by loyalty and firmness. Third strategic line: we will complete the fiscal consolidation path and meet the objectives of budgetary stability. Budget stability is essential to ensure the sustainability of the welfare state. We want to fulfil once again our commitment to the Tax and Financial Policy Council, thus completing Galicia's fiscal consolidation process. The steady and progressive reduction of the public deficit was very positive for the Greeks, because it allowed us to maintain the solvency of accounts and our financial autonomy. Galicia is the only common regime community that hasn't asked for a euro of the 156 billion that put the state to the end of the month. But if we demand an exclusive mechanism for fulfilling autonomous communities. And that's why the State, on a proposal from Galicia, empowered the Financial Facility Fund in 2015. Why did Galicia join this fund? Because it has no conditionality, because we maintain our financial autonomy, because it's totally optional, because we can go in or out whenever we want, and because it has advantageous conditions that allow us to save millions of euros in debt interest to spend them on productive spending. Galicia is one of the two communities that can use this mechanism; the rest cannot, because it does not meet its goals of deficit and debt. Galicia can choose: we can go to financial markets whenever we want and use the Financial Facility Fund if we benefit. And this has the name: self-government. The balance sheet is very positive: since the launch of the Galicia Finance Facility Fund, it has saved EUR 340 million. Ladies and gentlemen, I reiterate that fulfilling the goals of deficit and debt is positive for Galicia. Galicia has been the least indebted community since 2008. And do you know what that means? Less financial burdens for those who will come after us, i.e. responsibility. In fact, once the debt-GDP ratio has been stabilized, the goal is to reduce it steadily and progressively. Fourth line of action: we will maintain Galicia among the communities with lower fiscal pressure for middle and low incomes. Galicia will continue to be one of the communities in which middle and low incomes will pay less taxes. We will not raise taxes and maintain during this legislation the reduction in inheritance tax, so they do not pay 99% of the Greeks, and the IRPF discount, which benefits 98.5% of the Greeks, and we will complete the zero tax strategy for those who want to live in rural areas and live in rural areas. This decrease had an impact on the first year of application of EUR 41 million. They are resources that have remained in the hands of the Greek households to reactivate domestic consumption and maintain their heritage in full in case of a family member's loss. This year, the impact will be greater, of some 140 million euros, because it will have an effect on the community's collection of the IRPF discount by 2016, and it will also have a full effect on the reduction of succession tax. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to not raising taxes, we will analyse annually the possibility of further reductions, always depending on the recovery of public income. And to complement these tax reductions we will also maintain the tax benefits approved in the IRPF, in the tax on heritage transmissions and in the tax on successions and donations. In addition, we will maintain the low rates of marriage transmission tax for the acquisition of habitual housing, both of young people and of numerous families and people with disabilities above 65%. Another fundamental task will be to continue to strengthen information to the taxpayer, to facilitate compliance with its obligations, and the fight against tax fraud, to comply with the Tax Control Plan, based on the principles of justice, equality and economic capacity. Over the four years that the Tax Agency of Galicia has been operating, more than 600 million euros have already increased in undeclared debt. In this legislation, we will boost new technologies and encourage specialization. Fifthly, we're going to commit ourselves to our suppliers for an average payment period of about ten days. Nearly 80 percent of Xunta's bills are electronic, a system in which Galicia has been a pioneer in the whole of Spain since 2010. At present, Galicia is the third common regime community that pays its suppliers more easily, and the average payment period in 2016 has fallen in just over 20 days. We're paying better and more assiduously than most communities, but we want to take one more step and get this legislation to reduce the average payment period around ten days, a really ambitious goal. In this process of generalizing electronic billing, after completing its functioning in all public sector entities, the system for educational centres will be universalized. In addition, we will continue the implementation of the electronic bidding system and the electronic procurement system so that in all public procurement procedures the paper will disappear. Sixth strategic line: we will optimize budget management and coordination and statistics. We will advance in the systematization of multi-year budget scenarios, deepen in budgeting and management towards results based on targets set in the Strategic Plan, develop the budget office to optimize the follow-up by most of the main spending policies and move towards zero in budget management, with the computerization of all procedures, in addition to improving the coordination of the different services. Similarly, in the exercise of our powers as financial guardians over local entities, we will strengthen cooperation and coordination with local corporations to improve their financial and budgetary actions. In the tax field we will redouble collaboration with other autonomous and local administrations to make effective management, enabling them in the latter case to carry out their collection management on an executive basis. And in the search for a more efficient and modern administration close to the citizen, we will implement a telematic system for the presentation of assets, deposits and guarantees to the General Deposit Box, and in this way we will strengthen the supervision of both mutuals and corridors and insurance corridors. Ladies and gentlemen, we count on the Polish Statistical Plan 2017-2021, and in this legislation we will strengthen the information, efficiency, transparency and coordination of the Galego Institute of Statistics with other statistical systems. It is planned to expand information on dependence, care for minors, self-employment, social capital and reconciliation between work and work life, as well as to examine often several productive sectors, such as textiles, mining, the agri-food chain and forestry. Seventh line of action: we will deepen our policy of rationalization and zero rents. We have a capital plan in place for 100 percent of the administrative services to develop on their own premises. In this strategy, we aspire to a unique and recognizable office by the Greek Administration, uniting the image of each and every one of the units to make it more recognizable to citizens. And we want to strengthen the policy of zero renters to phase out renters from places and reinvest savings in the maintenance of the property of Junta, in order to optimize it and put it into value. We have already launched concrete actions: in Vigo, running the City of Justice, taking advantage of the facilities of the old hospital; in Pontevedra, recovering the Benito Corbal building to host services from the Junta, the University of Vigo and the social entities of the city; in Santiago de Compostela, with the project of the new San Caetano, to expand the current administrative facilities with the dependencies at the bus station, once it is moved to the future intermodal station; in Ourense, with the position in value of a local, currently unused, for the new headquarters of the Tax Agency of Galicia, which will allow this autonomic heritage to be optimized. And we are planning to continue with the value of this own heritage with performances in other cities of Greece to locate autonomous administrative services. Another goal is to develop a new Heritage Act, which will bring simplification and unity to this subject, in addition to facilitating its knowledge, consultation and application. We will also continue in a process of continuing to improve the quality of transparency in the public sector which complements the processes of administrative restructuring and simplification already under way. Eighth line of action: we will achieve full stability in public employment. Once all general wage adjustments of economic competition have been cancelled that were necessary during the crisis, a priority is to achieve full stability in public employment. Galicia was the autonomous administration that kept its number of troops more stable during the crisis. We did not opt for layoffs as other communities did; in fact, we currently have virtually the same number of troops as in 2008. Furthermore, Galicia is also the community that has the lowest rate of time in all of Spain: 14% compared to the average of 20.5%. So we have 6.5 points less interintently than average communities, and we want to continue to reduce this percentage. If we consider that the central government's goal is to leave the temporality rate at 8%, Galicia already has more than half the way along, and it will be the community that less relative effort will have to do. Ladies and gentlemen, if today in Galicia we have the lowest rate of temporality, it is because the German Government has called on the opposition whenever it has authorized it and making the most of the rest rate. Now we're kicking him. In 2016 we offer 2,644 squares, more than twice as much as in 2015 and the biggest job offer since 2009. And this year we want to offer another one, which will clearly exceed 3,000 squares. In this sense, let me tell you that time, humbly, has given us reason in Galicia, because we are not adventurers but responsible. There were not so many parties who demanded us to make this summons when there was no legal certainty. And now, when it does, where they rule, they don't call for opposition. I therefore believe that in this matter we must have a little rigour, a little seriousness and a little responsibility. The ninth line of action: we will achieve the full equalization of the working conditions of public employees. In addition to the full stability of employment, we aspire to have full equalization in the working conditions of all public employees. We will use the new instruments provided for in the Public Employment Act, approved in the past legislation, to achieve maximum homogeneity in both pay and employment conditions for the service of the self-employed public sector. In the last year we were able to deal with the unions for two new collectives: forest firemen and the Consortium of Equality and Welfare. In particular, we will complete the integration offers in the joint work regime of the Galician Union and will make operational offers for people who are already employed. We will put in place an axil competitive system that will allow professionals to demonstrate their preference and willingness for the performance of characteristic jobs or in targeted locations; and in conjunction with the Administration will offer them the performance of such posts as coverage needs arise. Besides, we've already agreed with the unions the second activity for forest firefighters, so that the older ones of a certain age don't have to turn out fires anymore. And as I have made progress, we have just signed an agreement with the unions so that the more than 1,800 members of the Galician Consortium of Equality and Welfare Services will have a wage equal to that of the rest of the workers in the Union, because in this government we believe in the stability and equalization of public employment. Another aspect in which we will move will be the exemption of fees for selective processes, mainly for long-term unemployed and persons with disabilities. With regard to this latter collective, in this legislation, the first Greek officials selected by means of a specific call for staff with intellectual disabilities will take possession. For the first time, people with intellectual disabilities will have the opportunity to get a job in Galician Union. This Saturday, April 8, almost 500 applicants will compete for the first call. [[Applause]] We are committed to maintaining and enhancing these access routes. Another measure will be the implementation of a temporary and specific employment access list for people with intellectual disabilities. In short, we seek to consolidate a professional, motivated, efficient and service-oriented public service. In this legislation we will develop the Public Employment Act and modernise the statutory regime and the set of rights and obligations of professionals in the service of citizens and public institutions, and we will deepen the policies that prestigious the figure of the public employee, expand the culture of transparency in the exercise of public service, promote participation and open government and complete technological change in working conditions that allow us to care for citizens 24 hours a day on 365 days a year. And, tenth of all, as a strategic line, we will implement the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan in line with the programming of the European Framework 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of my appearance, to maintain healthy and sustained growth, we will execute the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan. The priority is to consolidate the full economic recovery of Galician citizens. In this respect, I insist that we move forward in the systematization of the budgetary and multi-year scenarios in the strategic plan itself, and in budgeting and managing for results and on the basis of the objectives set out in that plan as well. And to make the most of our resources, we will also improve the management of European funds. Galicia has already implemented Feder and ESF funds for the previous period 2007-2013 online with the European Union average and efficiently and efficiently in terms of both financial execution and operational indicators. But we want to keep getting better. Thus, in seeking greater efficiency in managing these resources, and in order to maximize their impact, Galicia has already designed and approved by the managing authority a new management and control system in line with the new demands of the European Union. We will carry out a continuous follow-up and evaluation of the Strategic Plan and Feder and ESF operational programmes. I believe it is a coherent strategy, in line with the programming of European funds and Europe 2020 strategy, as well as the national plan for European Union economic and social reforms and policies. We plan to use new mechanisms, such as financial instruments that allow reusable investments, which multiply the positive effect and access to the largest number of companies. We will also prioritize the innovative use of all European funds which serve as a lever for the marketing and implementation of innovative technologies. Even so, the use of simplified costs is considered to be an opportunity to achieve greater efficiency in management and control, because on the basis of the opinion approved by the Committee of the Regions — and which led Galicia — entitled "Recommendations for Better Expenditure", we seek the maximum effectiveness and greater impact on the use of the resources of the operational programmes of European funds. I'm going to finish. And I wanted to do it with a call to unity and consensus, which would undoubtedly help to achieve the challenges Galicia has to face as a country. Because the achievements that can be achieved in this legislature will not be made by the Government of Greece but by all the Greeks and all the Greeks. And at the beginning of the year we have hopeful data, because we maintain strong economic growth, with an impact on key sectors of our economy, such as industry and services. These are data referred to in January 2017, which indicate that the service sector has grown to over 10%, which is located in Galicia at the head of Spain. Industry business has grown by more than 13%, the biggest increase in the historical series. The entry of orders into the industry has grown above 25%, more than twice as much as the Spanish average. And exports grew by 12.7% after reaching a historical record in 2016. We're getting much better, but no doubt there's a lot left to do. We're on the right track, but since the German Government, we're aware that much remains to be done to improve the lives of our citizens. Because improving the lives of the citizens of Greece will be the goal that will guide our work during this key legislation, in which we will, among all, consolidate the economic recovery of citizens with healthy and sustained growth. We will work to achieve an autonomous financing model that meets the needs of the Greeks, complete the fiscal consolidation path and meet the objectives of budgetary stability. We'll keep Galicia among the autonomous communities with lower fiscal pressure for middle and low income. We'll get an average payment period for our suppliers around ten days and optimize budget and statistical management and coordination. We will sink into the policy of rationalization and zero rentals. We will achieve full stability in public employment, and also the equalization, full equality, of the working conditions of our public employees. And we'll always have the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan as a guide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u8	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u9	Good morning to all and to all. Counsellor, the truth is that, after your intervention, from the parliamentary group I represent, we can only see that you come here to offer us more of the same, more continuity, more conformism and more submission to the central government; strategic lines that we see are absolutely insufficient for our context, insufficient to place Galicia in a good position for future challenges, insufficient to reactivate its economy and build strategic sectors, insufficient to guarantee equality of the Greeks and the Greeks and insufficient to demand a fair relationship with the Spanish State. First of all, let me tell you, Mr. Martínez, that you have, the truth, bad luck with your calendar. Yes, bad luck, don't laugh. Because until a certain point comes here again with enveloped plans and with the story of the recovery which the People's Party has seen because it enters the script, but, of course, just today, which is the day that the State budgets arrive at the State Courts and that we are going to see what you've been predicting for several days in the press, that we are going to see a new aggravation for Galicia, with the complicit silence of your Government, because it must therefore be a little bochoronous. Because, in order not to improvise — that you say they didn't improvise — it seems rather improvised what happened yesterday, when we had the visit of Mrs. Sáenz of Santamaría to promise us an additional story — you call it — to Galicia. First we saw how last week, while Mr. Rajoy was making announcements to Catalonia, this government must have been on Easter holidays. Because he didn't say anything at all and he didn't demand the delays that correspond to this country. Then I ask you if you will comply with Mrs. Sáenz of Santamaría's coming to repeat the commitments that the central government has so often failed with this country, that they will surely appear again on the paper and continue without execution. Because yesterday Mrs. Sáenz of Santamaría came here to sell directly with 247 million that you call "additional." I'm asking you if this is a tip for you as a good accomplisher and advanced student of Montoro -- that this title should be recognised -- or if it's, as we think from the nationalist group, a genuine alms. Because in a context in which Mr Montoro has just announced that he does not rule out debt to the autonomous communities that have contracted it through the FLA mechanism, if in the case of Galicia the advantage of not having resorted to it, the advantage of having been the student number one in cutting and austerity policies, will simply be those 247 million — which, as I will explain, are absolutely insufficient — because he will tell me what we have taken in exchange. For us, this is a simple candy to help them figure out that this government does not paint anything at all in negotiations with Madrid, and it also visibles another issue that we have already raised since nationalism on the table, which is that this model of funding does not come at all to manage our competences sufficiently. The resources — we reiterate — that the State's commitment to the financing system is totally insufficient to finance the basic pillars of our society, such as education, education or social services, and whose expenditure needs, in addition, have been increased in a crisis context. What's wrong? That we also look at this issue again at the consequences of the lack of self-government and the lack of the aspiration of this government. Again we are in a frame, in a system that is diametrically opposed to the values of social justice. And while the expenses of the autonomous communities are absolutely corroborated and regulated, the central administration can spend on its free will. So in the current distribution of public resources we see that it is precisely the current central administration that is overrepresented and absorbs more than 50% of them. If this is the supposed solidarity that we have to thank the Spanish State, it certainly does not seem to us to receive it. We understand that this framework and this model limits us, prevents us from managing our resources and destined them to strengthen basic services, in a context where, in addition, we are far from that recovery that you paint so much. Because it's important to remember that, for example, our country's social exclusion rate is rising this past year, and more than 70,000 people are at risk of social exclusion or poverty. In this context of emergency, we have a model of funding that is not enough and a government that, although we have been delaying three years in the debate of this model of funding, has not even sent three minutes of his intervention to talk about it. Galicia has already lost over EUR 9 billion in this financing model since 2009, and you intend that, with Mrs Santamaría's announcement yesterday, we will comply with 247 million more for health and other destinations. It must be that the fashion of this last week is to announce such alms, which is not even the tale that you told us today here that you saved Galicia through the Financial Facility Fund. So we understand that this is not receipt and that these events serve us to put other kinds of questions on the table. First of all, we understand that the political forces of this country should now be focused precisely on that debate in which you have occupied less than three minutes, a debate before what the German Government is showing absolute abandonment, because for me — Mr Valeriano — being the first to begin appointing an expert, being the first to start a debate... If by appointing an expert, automatically, this Parliament has already given all the debates, because we sincerely do not share that reading. We consider this matter to be unheard of, but we do not give up. And since the BNG we want to put on the table again the need for us to give this House a deep debate on this issue, which opens a presentation in this Parliament to achieve an ambitious and country-wide position. Because it turns out to be obvious, with all the eves we have just pointed out, that it is necessary to go to a model change that recognizes greater economic sovereignty and decision-making capacity over our resources. If even the German Government is so often rhetorical about self-government and how much it likes, because we self-governance and bet on a model where the revenues we generate are from Greek management and we are not happy to have a limited margin of decision-making about spending. Mr. Martínez also said in his two-year appearance that there are only two common regime communities that pay providers in the times in Galicia, and today he insisted very much on moving forward on that line; we agree. But also, if we compare it to communities that do not have that common regime, because we will see how to have another system like that of the concert also has facilities for elements that concern you — and us too — as a shorter time of payment to the providers. Of course, we understand that, in the face of official propaganda, having another model would allow us to manage more than EUR 3,000 million more than we are currently having and have a greater guarantee to shield our basic services and to face the current situation of guardianship and lack of autonomy in our country, which has worsened with the reforms that you have been adopting, such as the express reform of the Constitution or the organic law of budgetary stability. All this I'm saying is key to building the future, because we don't share the story of the mirrorism of the recovery you indicate. We understand that getting out of the recession does not automatically imply an absolute recovery, as you tell us, that not because we're not in a free fall, it means that we're uphill. The time we have is little, but I'm going to mention some nuance that I wanted to add and that I'm going to increase in the replica. To improve some macroeconomic data doesn't mean that this slight improvement is translated into the economies of the Greeks and the Greeks, which, as they point out, continue to suffer from a true emergency, the fruit of a crisis system, not only economic, but also political and legitimacy. You talked about, for example, GDP data. It's true that in 2016 it was 3.4%, above the state average, but there are also factors that we need to take into account. For this year, budgets, for example, include a smaller increase in GDP, which is also lower than expected in the state as a whole. Furthermore, if we are going to the weight that the different elements of our economy have in this GDP, we see with concern how, for example, the weight of industry in the whole of GDP is less than its weight in the rest of the state and even in comparison with neighbouring countries. That contrasts with that self-sustaining account that sold us to a more modern, more productive and more competitive economy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u11	And I'm done. It's also the weight that the primary sector has, for example, because it's very much against what you told us today. We can also put other data on the table, such as gross capital formation, taken as a re-investment measure, which is half this year that we shut down what we did in 2008. So we're still far from talking about this recovery with such a young new investment. In the reply I will use it to invite you with more concrete proposals to break the mold, to be non-conformists and to move away from that policy of submission to Madrid and to implement a fiscal reform that advances in social justice and to confront without fear the open debate of a new model of financing that returns justice to this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. You have the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today, Counsellor, we are brought to this Parliament the general lines of action of its department, a councillor who is the body of the Administration of the Autonomous Community which has the powers on the farm, according to the Statute of Self-Government, and also has coordination in the field of public procurement and public service, in accordance with the applicable legislation, and also has several bodies affiliated to it, such as the Galego Institute of Statistics, the CIXTEC, the Tax Agency and the Galician Economic and Social Council; that is, it is a councillor who defines the content of economic policy to be developed in the Council of Galicia in this legislation. I've said it in several speeches, but I still keep it: budgets are the most important tool that a government has to implement its policies. And politics have to serve citizenship, not vice versa; citizenship doesn't have to be at the forefront of politics. I want to start my exhibition by making a country comparative, a country comparative these last eight years, years in which you, the People's Party, have ruled with Mr. Núñez Feijó to the head as President of the Galician Union. In population we have lost 77,564 people; of population between 0 and 19 years we have lost 162,849 people; and of population between 25 and 34 years, 123,935 people less. On the other hand, we have a population over 65 years old that corresponds to 24.32% of the total population in Greece, and from this, 112,705 people are over 65. That's the portrait of our population. From this population we have a busy population of 1,049,600, according to the fourth quarter EPA data. It is true that in Galicia increased 1.65%, but in Spain it has increased by 2.3%. At this point, we have 69,600 homes with all members unemployed — the latest data from the EPA —. And from March to March, in Galicia we dropped by 9.38%, but in Spain we dropped by 9.58%, while the membership of Social Security, also from March to March, in Galicia increased by 98%, but in Spain we increased by 3.49%; 4 out of 10 people live in homes with no capacity to cope with unforeseen expenses. And we have 19.95% of poverty risk rate, that is, they're below the poverty risk threshold, which for Galicia is at 600 euros. The average Greek salary remains the third lowest in the state, 60% of the Greek pensioners live with less than the minimum inter-professional wage and more than half of the Greek retirees already pay 20% more than the employees in our country. I mean, more than a third of the income of the Greeks comes from pensions, and 1 out of every 3 under 30 years of age lives under the poverty line, despite the fact that they're working. The indebtedness of the Autonomous Community rose in these eight years from 4,859 million in 2009 to 10,854 million euros, i.e. per capita from 1,752 to 3,914. So we correspond to each Welshman and every Welshman 2,162 euros more debt, increasing by 123.40%. Really, with these data I just told you, can you keep talking about healthy growth and sustainable growth for some budgets? And besides, look, if the recipes that you're going to apply are the same as you think they were so good, you mean that the results will also be quite similar. It's a shame this hasn't been changed and at least they don't think, having this situation, that they have to change necessarily. In eight years we have a very vulnerable population. Employment, far from being a government priority, has been a collateral damage to your policies, to yours. But look, Counselor, work is what dignified people, it's the only thing that keeps this country from bleeding with the march of population, especially with that march of young population that gave it in my initial data. I know you're going to tell me that unemployment has fallen, and, man, at some point trends had to change. But I would also like you to look at the characteristics of this job that you are generating: temporary employment, higher instability, low remuneration, greater precariousness and low protection for the worker — greater precariousness too. Do you think that in these conditions our society is prepared to face a vital project for the future? Do you think our young people can form a family in the conditions they decide? I'm sure not, I'm sure not. [[Applause]] I don't want to be heavy, Counselor, but you don't care about population nothing, nothing, and, above all, this younger population that's gone and that can't leave its most important contribution here in the best years of your life: to bring in research and development. They have to leave because here they don't offer them a future and they go to other countries where they are valued and there they can apply their knowledge. They don't care. And besides, I'm going to corroborate my information again. In function 32, "Promotion of employment and labour market institutions", the level of execution of this game is the lowest of the entire 2016 budget; that is, they only executed 61.4 % of the 2016 budgets devoted to this game. Do you think it's right that one of the most important fundamental issues that worries our population can't even be executed in its entirety, given that budget allocation already doesn't seem enough to us? Really? At the exhibition the other day, the Social Policy Advisor informed us that in budgets there was a very important count for Risk, and that's true, and it's necessary. But do they not realize that this finding is precisely what shows that their policies have failed? It's the most scrupulous failure of a policy towards society, which has to increase risk counts, because there's a lot more population that has the right and that needs to charge that risk. They don't really talk about healthy growth, they don't talk about sustainable growth, because it's an insult to this whole population. [[Applause]] Are you aware of the inequality they've achieved? We start from one of the most egalitarian societies, we are currently one of the most unequal societies. You have to match accounts before you take care of people. I suppose you'll tell me that everything they did to continue with quality public services, especially in health care, education and social services, but they don't have a positive balance here either. How much do you have to make public services precarious? How much is the working conditions of workers and public workers being precarious? Without sufficient public employment and quality, there can't be enough public service and quality, it's totally impossible. Look, these are the results of your party. Between July 2012 and July 2016, the latest data published by the Central Staff Registry of the Ministry of Business, in Spain 167,000 jobs were lost. According to the European Commission, Spain is among the ten countries of the European Union with less spending on public employment by GDP, 25% of the state-owned staff are over 50 years old. Between 2007 and 2015, only one staff member was included for each ten staff member who caused the loss. Spain presents the highest rate of time in the European Union. And, in Galicia, temporality is 24.5 %—temporality, Counsellor, non-interinity; do not confuse, use the terms correctly—; the Greek temporality rate is 24.5%, one of the highest in the state.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u15	In Galicia it has increased by 50% to temporary recruitment, it is the sixth autonomous community in the queue in public employees for every thousand inhabitants. The framework of structural posts from 2008 to 2015 lost 3,000 squares, and Galicia is the fifth public employment reduction community between 2010 and 2016; and 40% corresponds to health and education. So there must be precarious health and education, because there was precarious recruitment and conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u17	...of public servants. I'm done, Mr. President. Galicia, along with Aragon and Navarre, are the three autonomous communities that devote less employees to the Administration of Justice. And, Counselor, you also show a low commitment to public service, because in program 124A, "Direction, modernization and management of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u18	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u19	...public function", in 2016 only 78% was able to run, and this initial match was improved to 1,137,000 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago Peñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u21	Good morning. Counselor, I must acknowledge my naivety. I thought the first thing I was going to do today when I went up to the gallery was apologize to the Group of En Marea. And I'm going to remind you of some of your words... I wanted to have an economic debate session, see if it's possible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u22	Please listen to who is in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u23	I'm going to remind you of a few words that you said, which are in the January 16 Session Diary: "To the Voice of En Marea, we are against painting 300 million euros in income corresponding to deliveries to the system of autonomic financing and the Interterritorial Compensation Fund." And, Counsellor, he also said, "This government intends to be rigorous, and it will not include budgets of this exercise for 300 million euros of revenue." I'll remind you: At Marea he told you, in a rigorous estimate of advances to account derived from the autonomic financing model, which resulted in Galicia 250 million euros more, because the collection of taxes was on that line. You said that was a barbarity, that we weren't strict, that we didn't know what we were talking about. Ah!, but yesterday the vice president of the Government arrived and said that in the model of financing of autonomous communities there will be 5,500 million more in 2017 and that Galicia therefore corresponds to 247; we were wrong in 3 million euros, Counsellor. [[Applause]] What are you going to do now? Will you excuse us, will you say your calculations were wrong or will you criticize the vice president? What are you going to do? Will it include the EUR 247 million in the 2017 budgets or not? Will you continue to say what he said on January 16th, or will you change the bill, Counselor? Well, I can't recognize the country you're talking about, Mr. Martínez, and much less the Government than you claim. The last eight years have been the greatest suffering of Galician society in decades, and the Government than you are part of is what has the worst economic balance of the entire democratic history of Galicia. Under his mandate, the economy has been in recession for four years and two years in stagnation, so that from 2009 to 2014 we have suffered the longest and hardest recessive cycle since statistics exist. The result of this period is as negative as demolition, because it is not true that we have recovered the level of GDP. There's still three points left, finished 2016, to achieve what we had in 2008, and that's 1,800 million euros to go back to where we were when they started ruling. And that, Counselor, never happened in the modern history of this country: to finish a legislation — in this case two — with a level of wealth lower than there was when the Government began to rule. Never, no government or Fraga's, has closed a mandate with a GDP level below what you found when you started your mandate, and that's your balance sheet. Galicia is going to lose a decade, because we won't reach the end of 2017 until we get to the level of GDP we had in 2008. Two and a half laws will serve no more than to return to the exit cottage. INE said the other day that there are seven autonomous communities that have already recovered the level of GDP prior to the recession. I'll give you the news, Galicia wasn't among them. But, possibly, the most worrying element to society — hence to me and I think to the Government — is a demolition, which I hope you explain here. And it is: why is Galicia the autonomous community that has the worst evolution of employment throughout the state? After eight years of government — listen well — there are 103,000 unemployed less and 38,000 unemployed more. And that had never happened before in the history of this country, that a government had finished a less-employment legislation than it did when it started. It is true that the destruction of employment has affected the state as a whole, but also that Galicia is the autonomous community with the worst evolution. I'm going to give you the data: from 2009 to 2016 — fourth quarter of 2016 — employment in Galicia fell 9% in the accumulated period; in Spain, 3.4%. This means that the destruction of employment in our country triples the average destruction of Spain. And that result makes — I was told again and I would like to say that I was able to disagree — that Galicia is the autonomous community that has the worst evolution of employment in the whole state. And the Galician Board should be able to explain why, because I don't understand. I don't have time to give all the data, but I'm going to make a summary of what's happened on the Galician labor market at this time. Galicia is the autonomous community where the most jobs are destroyed throughout the state, where the number of occupations in the primary sector, the third most industrial employment has lost, the fourth most employment of under 35 years of age, the second most unemployment has grown, the third most active population has fallen, the third with the lowest wages, while we have a precaution rate higher than the average state and a level of protection for people under the average. The councillor once again assumed today that Galicia is among the autonomous communities that have further reduced the deficit. I'm not gonna argue with him. The question is, what is the merit? Why are you calling me? You might assume that because of its management, the economy has grown more and we raise more taxes, but as they presume at the same time to reduce the deficit and reduce income because they lower taxes, what is the explanation of the reduction in the deficit? The snippet. Between 2009 and 2014, the Galician Union reduced expenditure — settled budgets on the Ministry of Finance’s website — by 2,146 million euros, a fall of 30% in real terms. And where did he cut off? Well, where else it's spent. 2009-2014, 306 million euros less in health care, 422 million euros less in education, 514 million euros less in infrastructure, 213 million euros cut in social services, 174 million euros less in employment policies. Does Together Really View This as a Management Success? Cutting down the staff squares in health care and education, lowering the salary to public employees, stopping building roads, is that something to be assumed? The only strategy to control the deficit was to use the social shock absorber. You didn't use scissors, you used the saw directly. A brutal cut that has to do with the drop in income and which highlights the orientation of tax policy applied in these years. We studied it in college, Counsellor: a progressive tax system is the one where direct taxes, those that save income and wealth, are more dominant than indirect taxes, those that record consumption, because they don't distinguish the level of income. Today the collection data comes out in 2016, and what do we see? That there is less income, but above all that lowers the weight of direct taxes and rises, above all, the VAT. Because what's here is a fiscal counter-reform that doesn't progress in the system's adequacy and itself progresses in inequality, in the lack of progressiveity, in charging the tax bill on lower incomes. A final idea that I liked very much, Counselor. During 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 to turn to the extraordinary financing mechanisms of the autonomous communities was a sacrilege. And the Galician Board preferred to issue 7,705 million euros of public debt, and instead of going to public funds for lower interest rates, it preferred to be indebted to the big bank and to private investment funds, incuring a financial overburden — which I hope will one day give us the figure — that I value in 1 billion euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u25	Those 300 million euros you're talking about now we're saving them in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. And I'm going to tell you something: the Galician Union is the autonomous community that is most indebted right now, which is more on the public funds. You know why? I'd like an explanation. I'll give you one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u27	One minute, please. I'll give you one, mine. Let's see if that encourages you to explain yourself. We are talking about metabolizing the debt of autonomous communities with the State through the FLA, funding funds, the Facility. What's going on? For there are autonomous communities like Murcia in which 75% of their debt is in state funds, and Galicia is in 30%. But a year ago we were at 20%. The Galician Union is running like crazy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u28	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u29	...dedicating to the public sector, to see if the metabolism of debt occurs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u31	Allow me a sentence, please. I'm done. Despite the counselor's false speech, the reality is that Galicia that comes out of recession is a country that is more unfair, more unequal, more poor, less job, more unemployed, more precarious work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u33	...valued wages, less social protection, less labour rights, worse public services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u35	...less industry and more indebted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u36	You have another shift later. We've been in the last minute and a half. You have the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the final pyrotechnic of the spokesman who preceded me in the speech, I wanted to recall a phrase by Alfred Marshall: "Every short sentence about economy is intrinsically false." I think it's good to remember it from time to time. [[Applause]] Counsellor, I want to congratulate you on bringing a simple plan to the House. It brings ten major strategic targets, which we share, to legislate. We believe that they are suitable for the current economic situation. And we think they're appropriate because they come up with the latest economic data and the facts of their work in the first few months of this legislation. His account, far from being self-comprehensive, was self-eligible in the persistence of achieving a better Galician, with greater availability of public spending, with better public services and with reduced the main problem we have, which is unemployment: reducing unemployment. Of its ten major objectives, five were in the field of economic policy, four were in the field of self-organization and the functioning of the Public Administration, and the latter in relation to the Strategic Plan of Galicia, the PEG. Of the five economic policy objectives, which are summarized in the first one: to consolidate a recovery based on sound and sustained growth, I think it is appropriate to remember that we do not cause the crisis. When we arrived in 2009, the third quarter, GDP dropped to 4.7 per cent. We now know that it is growing at the higher rates of the series, so it is difficult to say — although it is said — that the ones that caused the crisis were us, when — I insist — the biggest fall in GDP in the historical series in Galicia was in the third quarter of 2009, just when we achieved — with the confidence of the people of Greece — to reach the government. We're currently at 3,2 rates, and all the revisions that are done are on the rise. In fact, INE predicts a growth of the Greek economy in 2016 of 3.2, just like that of the average of Spain, a 3.2. Finally it confirmed 3.2 for Spain and 3.4 for Galicia, two tenths more, and all the auspices for the year 2017—BBVA, growth of 2.8; the Union itself, 2.5— are in line with Spain's growth. That's what you're bringing in is a per capita GDP growth, and I want to remember some data, because it seems that the crisis in Galicia was worse because it was ruling the People's Party. GDP per capita between 2008 and 2016 in Galicia grew by 0.6, in Spain dropped by 1.3; that is, almost two points of per capita GDP growth in Galicia during the years 2008 to 2016. If we took from 2014 to 2016, in Galicia GDP per capita grew to 8.6 and in Spain to 7.4; that is, a difference of 1.2. Then if you want to say some questions... and you might have to deal with, basically, with two aspects. First, an obvious improvement in Galicia's competitiveness, otherwise, it would be impossible that GDP per capita was higher and that with fewer people working we had the same general GDP as we had then. And the second is demography. As it is obvious, neither is the demography... Finally, it should be remembered sometimes that here the first one who was concerned about the demography was Mr. Fraga, who sparked huge jokes from the opposition groups, who said that he was an old stutter who wanted the Greeks to get to do like the rabbits. No, it's the fundamental problem that explains some of the differences, along with the other. Because if there was the same productivity in Galicia, we would have a GDP that would not be the same because it works fewer people. So the two factors are the ones that explain that the situation is better. Also in the field of employment. Today, data that places Galicia at unemployment levels below the beginning of the economic crisis has just been known. It's the biggest fall in March for at least 20 years. The unemployment rate is reduced for the fourth consecutive year in March. Affiliations continue to increase; we have since April 2014 with increased memberships. Moreover, unemployment is low in the four provinces of Greece, in the seven major cities and in all sectors, mainly in construction, industry, agriculture and fisheries; and it is also significantly, above average, reduced in the under 30 years, and more or less in the average in long-term unemployed. So we understand that means there's an economic recovery. Obviously, this doesn't mean it's all done, but it means things are better. And we also believe that it's a healthy recovery because the factor that essentially explains the differential with Spain is exports. In Galicia — we talked about it when we brought up the Brexit initiative — we're exporting another 6.4 in 2016, 20 billion; we're importing 15,500 million, 4,500 million favorable balance to Galicia. The Galician Economic Forum, unsuspecting in this respect, author of the report in relation to Galician exporting barometer, says that the incorporation of companies into export was more intense in Galicia than in the rest of Spain, and it was uniquely towards large emerging economies. Of the eight partial indicators considered, Galicia closed the year 2016 exceeding the average Spanish behavior in five of them, while in the previous year it had only done it in three. Of the industrial sectors, the naval is getting better; in the automotive industry, the Vigo cluster has been able to cope well with the crisis and has the capacity to respond to the new situation of international markets. The IPI, the Industrial Production Index, 2016 grew to 4.1, was the second largest community in Spain; 1.6 in the Spanish group. In the service sector, the business rate in 2016 had an annual growth of 8.8 in Galicia, while in Spain it was 4.2. Well, all of these are data confirming that we're meeting the deficit. It was said here that we spent a lot because it was an election year. It turns out that we can spend, incur a deficit of 0.7, and the advisor brings accounts in the electoral year in which the deficit of the autonomous community is 0.54. Well, finally, we're a government... we can have, Counselor, according to the dialectics they use, instead of 41 Members, 46, but we don't have to abuse this either, I don't fully agree with what my partner Beatriz Mato said yesterday; 41 is fine, and we could have 46, probably if we were to spend the margin of debt and deficit. The payment to the suppliers was in 23 days at the end of the year, 33 in Spain; and in January it is already in 20 days. We are also the autonomous communities of the state which in previous years are between the first and the second most important in capital spending, investments, on the total of budgets. In 2015, the average of the autonomous communities of chapters VI and VII was 7.8, in Galicia was 14.6. In 2016, the average of the autonomous communities was 6.4, in Galicia the double, practically 12%, was the second after Balearics. With less obeisance, they criticize indebtedness, even though they have amended us, asking for more and more indebtedness, at last. The total GDP debt, including public administrations, companies and public-private collaboration, was in 2008 at 7.22, and in Spain at 7.44 GDP. In 2016 he's in Galicia at 18.73, and in Spain at 25.31, which means we've done it with much less debt; a debt that's stabilized around 18.7 GDP and will start to decrease. Among other things, it has contributed to this reinforcement of the stabilisation of debt, that of being able to participate in the Financial Facilitation Fund, which, as the advisor said, has saved us, without conditionality of any kind and therefore maintaining Galician autonomy, EUR 92 million. As far as fiscal pressure is concerned, if you look at the report of the General Council of Economists, you can see that — as we said here when we approve the reform of the IRPF — Galicia is the second autonomous community where less pay for the IRPF; instead, in property tax, which takes the great fortunes, we are of the communities that have the greatest tax pressure. This contributes to the redistribution and progression of the system set. And since public spending is where the system's progressiveity is essentially materialized, I want to recall some data, how can it be that spending on public services by autonomous community — INE data 2014 — in Galicia is 2,732 euros/inhabitant and in Spain is 2,693. By the way, under the average there is the Government of left-wings by definition, which is that of Andalusia, with 2,475. That means there are 50 million euros for Risga, there are non-contributory pensions. We're the second largest community and one of the three that have the most non-contributory pensions. This is the first time Galicia exceeds the percentage recommended by the European Union of children's squares. You have increased your home service by four since 2009. There's 22% more senior residences. And all that it does is that, indeed, there is a lot of data that validate that the poverty risk rate is lower in Galicia than in Spain as a whole, and that even in the worst period of the crisis, 2009-2013, as the EAPN report says, in Spain it turns out that only three autonomous communities have reduced the poverty risk rate during that period, and one of them was Galicia, down from 24.6 to 24.3. We, Counsellor, believe that, indeed, we must continue to persevere in the policies you have announced. We are faced with the challenge of self-financing. We started well, bringing back to the technicians the analysis and introducing a political agreement of the highest level among the presidents of the autonomous communities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u39	...to ensure that the actual cost and equity in expenditure, regardless of the place of residence, are the guidelines for the reform of the system of self-financing. He made another appreciation that we greatly esteem, which is the development of the strategic plan, introducing budgeting and management to results. This is a revolutionary change in the budget and spending system of the autonomous community...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u40	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u41	Of course, for these purposes you will count on the loyal collaboration of the group, and we trust that in these last two themes also the whole of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy Fraga. He's got the retort on Mr. Conseil of Fairy, Mr. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u43	Thank you again, Mr. President. Different interventions by parliamentary groups. I'll try to answer more or less, if not all of you, the good majority of those that have been formulated by you -- perhaps with a more general criterion and not so much looking at the intervention of each spokesperson. There's a first position where each one of you spoke, which was the subject of state budgets, which we started to know in a way that's already very profuse today. On the basis of the rigour that must characterize us, let me have a little colloquial expression. We're not worried or busy before time. Let's look at things in their relative magnitude. When we look at the two fundamental factors that bring us to this matter today. One, the discussion on the budgeted size of the investment that the Central Administration intends to develop in Galicia. And when we also realize that Galicia is going to be the third community where per capita investment is going to be bigger, let's also see this as a positive issue, as long as that presumed volume of investment allows us all to conquer the deadlines we've all given to finish very important investments from a strategic point of view for our community. Item number 1. Theme number two, and it's not so much a question of who's right or who's not right or half-pensionist. Let me also say here that we come to make politics from this stage, and what we must all be present when we make a budget -- I said it, and so it is collected in my budget statement -- and the most important thing with which a serious and modern administration counts is that we can have a budget in time and form for it to be activated. Theme in one. Item 2. As far as the spell referred to by some groups of 247 is concerned, it seems to be a lie. I suppose it's the same precision they use other topics when we talk about autonomic funding, autonomic financing. It is no alms, it is the logical corollary of the financing system which is perfectly predetermined in each and every one of the funds and which currently leads to EUR 247 million corresponding to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. It's not a gift from anyone; with the current system, it turns out that the amount of which Galicia deserves is 247 million euros on what was the 2016 level — item number 1—. So, talking about alms or propines when it's something that belongs to each autonomous community in particular... Galicia this year, 247 million euros. Let me also tell you that within this activation theory of what it means to budget for dynamisation, and not only in the quantitative part but as certain actions, the main economic actors that the Autonomous Community has in the forecast that we approve here in this Parliament were 77 million euros, in a way, once again prudent. If we take into account, in addition, the increase in pay in Chapter I generally for all public employees, which we all knew but we didn't know, which would be about 1%, we don't have to be too ready to know that we're talking about 125 million euros. So the rest — and again, when we were talking about the additional tenth — is the potential, which, if you don't worry, will be used and brought to this House at the moment because it's a potential that this autonomous community will use in all its magnitude, but has already activated a budget on certain grounds. It's not so much an exercise to see who's the smartest in the class, but to activate, with all its consequences, the budgets. Let me also refer to the various references that have been made to one of the most important issues the Autonomous Community has for the coming years — for the next few years and even decades — as may be the new model or financing system, introduced in a way, once again, priority by the representative of the BNG. Let me tell you that you never join the consensus and allow me, no doubt, to say what I think from a political perspective. Then you, please, answer what's good for you. What is very clear is that there has been a consensus offer here, as it could not be otherwise, both in terms of the representative and also in terms of the principles we have discussed and agreed to at the moment in this Parliament. Allow me to repeat it: equity and full solidarity. I suppose we'll all agree. Stability, this means that there are no loopholes, that it is an increasingly resilient system, and that, in the face of crises, it manifests not in the sudden fall of income but in magnitudes that are perfectly conformable by any public body. Financial autonomy. I suppose we'll all agree to have autonomy to exercise our power. Institutional loyalty and coordination. Here, in the first part, I don't know if we'll all agree, but I think it's a normal act to work with institutional loyalty and sustainability. I think the most important thing is to resume this line of principles that we agreed on. What's clear is that a coupon system says what BNG says and its default studies... There is no serious or rigorous study in which, starting from a simple hypothesis, that is the per capita income we have at this time, under the average... with a generalization of the coupon system as you propose, we would be making the biggest misfortune from the financial point of view for citizens in Galicia for the next few years. If we don't have that in mind, any positioning will be just a waste of time on our band. So, the most important thing is to walk, if possible, adding among all towards consensus, at the important stage that is guessed in the coming months, a year or so, when we talk about self-financing. So they add up to the effort, which I think will be the right measure. Very little has been said about the situation that we have of GDP, and it always points to the negative side. It's your job, I understand it, but let me highlight the positive part. At this time our autonomous community, once again, is growing in a clear, clear way, in the Spanish average — 3.2 last year, 3.4 at present — and most importantly, with a proper job recovery. Here are some data on today's employment, also public employment, and that's what I'm going to mention in a moment, but let me also, when we analyze today's data that comes out, registered unemployment, affiliation, recruitment, say that what's very clear is that economic growth is moving to employment, perhaps not as intensive as we wanted, but the situation we have in this first quarter of 2017 is completely different from what was until 2014, which is when it really happens or is beginning to happen to overcome the terrible economic crisis in which we have been immersed since the year 2009 until 2014. So there are some factors I would like to highlight. Indeed, the rate of unemployment in Galicia may be growing slightly below or with better behaviour than the Spanish economy, but what is undeniable is that where Spain targets 16% at the end of the year we already had it in 2016. We still have a two-point differential. So I think we should be relatively happy. When we look at affiliation, it turns out that in affiliation we're growing at an annual rate of 1.98%; almost 2%. Let me tell you that this is even what we estimated in our Strategic Plan, where by 2020 we would have to achieve 100,000 new jobs. With the tendency that we are currently having, we are going slightly above what, when dealt with in this Parliament, was considered little more than a volunteerism on the part of this government. So we're fine. But it's just that, when we analyze indefinite recruitment, there's a very important change here, because in indefinite recruitment, it turns out that in the first three months, there's been an increase in undefined contracts in almost 21,000 people. It's good news, as well as this increase is 17.8% over the first quarter of 2016. It's good news, as well as the Spanish average is 15.3. So what you're saying about all this is that we're creating jobs and better jobs. Maybe the intensity should be a little higher, that's what we have to dedicate to everyone, but the data again are positive and each and every one of the parameters, both of unemployment and affiliation and of the composition of the contract. Also, when they were referring to what it means Galicia is growing up right now, we're growing more than the Spanish average and we're on levels that two years ago weren't very imaginable. When we were talking here at 2% at the end of 2015, it seems to me that laughter came to San Caetano. I think it's time to recognize the real state we're in. Or also when we talk about our convergence with regard to the Spanish economy and the European economy, which was another of the challenges we had in the Strategic Plan. When we compare if Germany, for example, has grown to 1.9% last year, France, 1.2%, Italy, 0.9%, Portugal, 1.4% and the eurozone, 1.7%, something will be doing well as a society, not just as a government, when we are at 3.4% and last year at 3.2%, which we also presented a differential of more than one and a half points in relation to the eurozone. So it is something that we must congratulate and that must serve as an incentive to continue to persevere in the policies that we are implementing, because they are having increasingly positive results. So we are perfectly in line with what we had fixed both in terms of growth and in terms of employment, and in terms of convergence with both Spain and Europe. By the way, it's time we clearly measure what it means when we talk about an increasingly modern economy as is the Greek economy. We've been analyzed in large periods, as we need to analyze this data, which is telling us that our per capita GDP is not the right indicator, given our demographic structure. The right indicator, in order to produce goods and services — and I have said it once in this Parliament — must be the consideration of the active population, the one that is able to work, who wants to work at least to produce goods and services. If we do, we will realize that Galicia is the second autonomous community in the last ten or fifteen years where there is a better propensity between GDP by active population. This, what does that mean? That we have an increasingly productive, more modern economy, and, in particular, 89% of GDP per capita, we would now be almost 93%, and going up. So that's something we should congratulate ourselves on. But it also shows us an ejacism that we've been here for years in Parliament and also the laughter in San Caetano, which is in our demographic structure. Let's focus on our demographic structure. We all need to be able to have different types of policies to try to reverse the demographic situation, knowing that it is not only the autonomous Community but at least much of Spain, Spain and all of Europe. That's why the demographic issue of the future is so important. As is also — and at the moment we will speak in this Parliament when we have to present the budgets, before the summer, or the expenditure ceiling and then the budgets — we will have to proceed, with what we know today, to a review of our macroeconomic framework, because all the projective institutes that exist in Spain — say Funcas, Economic Forum, Airef, BBV Foundation — what we are being told, as well as the own studies that the Autonomous Community has through the Galego Institute of Statistics, is that our situation in creating wealth and employment is above what we are giving at the moment. The most important thing is not to be mistaken in conveying a feeling to citizenship and to the economic and social actors of too much volunteerism, but at the same time we have to correct the situations, in this case to the height, that we think there will be three or four tenths above what it means to create wealth and that there will be two or three tenths above what it means to create employment. So everything we know from 2017 goes the right way. Some of the groups have also introduced certain tax issues here. Let me tell you that our model is very clear; our model is very clear. We want to keep the reduction in the tax of successions and donations, we want to keep the discount with which all the citizens of Greece, almost 28.5% of the taxpayers, will find themselves in this statement that begins on tomorrow's IRPF. We want to keep down and get to zero in rural taxes; we want to follow this line, it's not the model of other options. Let me tell you that what we want is that these money can be used to dynamize other kinds of personal, family or business decisions, because that's how we're testing how, despite this tax reduction that we're doing, it's increasing the overall income of our autonomous community. That's our choice, and that's where we'll keep working. As was also mentioned here about the FLA, that if it's cheaper, more expensive. Home! I'm getting attention when you consider this case only from a quantitative perspective, which I'm going to mention, but I understand that in certain groups I don't know if I'm talking to the most jacobin branch, the most nationalist branch or the interstitial branch. I suppose there will be everything in certain groups, because the fundamental thing in all these issues is called FLA, financial ease or any other kind of word, is to recognize two things: first, I think what we're talking about among all of us is to make decisions, correct, wrong or half-pensionist; that means self-government; put a price on self-government some group on their Jacobine branch. So it's the corollary of all this, because linked this to the tax issue, of not opting for certain situations such as the FLA, the tax discount that has practically benefited seventy thousand Greeks in 2016, and continues in 2017, it could not have happened. It's clear for everyone to make their decisions. So we have very clear that the positioning of this government, first of all, is always a position of maximum and full self-government, as virtually no autonomous community has and has in Spain. We make decisions in a sovereign way and for ourselves. [[Applause]] But again on the quantitative side, and I already advance them — I suppose so — that we will have a more peaceful debate on this subject, but Galicia has demonstrated that it had the capacity to go to the markets and to finance itself in the markets. And in average terms he always did it in similar terms and many years beneath what the FLA was. The FLA when it was the first known, because, for example, in 2012 operations with interest types were formalised for this autonomous community in operations between 3.1% and 4.9%, always below the FLA, which was born in 2012, when it was a source of suppliers, also FLA, then in 2013 already FLA. In 2013, types of operations of 3% and 2.7% were formalized. All of this is also linked — if agreed — to what was the risk premium in 2012, in 2013, and how there is a recomposition. Types these are also below the FLA. So we're going to take the bills, of course, yes, from that point of view too, which means saving. But the most important of all, and especially the Jacobine branch of certain groupings, is that they place a price on self-government. Who is willing to put a price on self-government? As well as certain issues that have been raised, it seems to me to remember again, and we will have to be heavy on the subject of public employment. The most stable employment of any community in the period 2009-2016 is that of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. They don't give a hand, please, of certain data that have been erroneously processed in the Ministry of Finance, because they have also been badly given by the Council of Galicia at the time, and which have been corrected for a lot of years. Once again, we have to say it at parliamentary headquarters: the most stable data from all autonomous communities is that of Galicia, because the political option that was made at the time is to ask all public employees to make an effort, but not to change the public employment parameter. What if I get attention — and I think we're a little confused here among us all — is when Galicia is blamed for a certain purely quantitative error and the parameters of other autonomous communities are not taken into account, how can that be of Andalusia — do you know it, you? - where there were nearly 17 thousand jobs less during the period. In Galicia we have forty workers over a total of 86,000. It's some workers! Please, it's just to consider! But it is that, in addition to public employment in the autonomous community, it is mainly from the Galician Union, but not exclusively, it turns out that Galicia during the period had a 0.04 minority, 41 people, and it turns out that the State administration had a 5.8%, partly governed by the PSOE, partly governed by the PP the Central Administration, and it turns out that the local administration — I suppose it will be the fault of the Galician Union — has fallen by 19.1%. Let's put some questions in perspective. As when here you refer, for example, to the issue of health, where starting with 33,176 troops, we now have 34,200, and you're still wrong with the registration of cuts. It's just that it really doesn't come up with the purely objective data we have right now. Like when we talk about the precariousness of public employment by handing out EPA, 24.5%. I repeat the composition: there's a lot of joints here, but it's not just joints, there's also State Administration, there's local administration. Also take into account that what you call precaution is composed of two factors: one first, above all, the rate of interimity, where Galicia is curiously the autonomous community that has the lowest rate, but with much difference to any other community in Spain. And also another issue that we have in our autonomous communities, especially linked to services, health and social services: that we must cover the absences that are missing. And those are one day's, two days' hires, one week's. And that's what we call "precarization"? It is wonderful to hear the reasoning of some groups, it is truly wonderful! [[Murmurs.]] As well as hearing the reasoning of some groups when they talk about wealth and told us that by sectors. There was a reference that seems to me to be the data wrong, or there's something that doesn't fit me, when they refer to the primary sector generally, the primary sector, and when they refer to the industry. It's that if there's any sector that currently has the same level of wealth as what I had in 2008 is the primary sector, and now it turns out that way. Let us say that in different subsectors within the primary sector we can have or not. But when we look at it as a whole what is called the primary sector, let's say agriculture, let's say it's gain, say it's forest, say it's called the sea, also in its different subsectors, it turns out that the domestic product we have in 2016 is almost identical or slightly superior to what we had in 2008. And, first of all, that's a mess. As well as when it comes to industry. And from the industry, in fact, we still haven't recovered the parameter we had in 2008, the maximum year of the whole series. But what is undeniable is the enormous momentum that industry has had in the last two years, in 2015 and 2016, both in the area of economic growth and in the field of employment and in the area of exports — which I refer to several times — as in the area of business creation: 16% more in 2016 than in the previous year, as in the case of production: 4.1% more. If GDP is rising by 3.4% and production by 4.1%, you will understand that something is going to be done right with regard to industry! [[Applause]] As with the issue of competitiveness, where we also have much to improve up to 2020 in terms of competitiveness, but where it is perfectly activated through the Competitive Agenda of the Smart Factory our issues. And does all this mean we're doing well? I can't move that opinion, but it's immensely more positive what's going on. Like again, once again, and give it to him, but, well, we're also a little like mill stones, like when they talk about emigration, about young people's emigration. The objective data known today is that the rate of emigration in Galicia is the lowest in all autonomous communities, and the rate of emigration of young people is the youngest in all of Spain. Should we be happy with that situation? Not at all. But you tell me what they would be like if we were in the middle of being the 12th or the 14th autonomous community. If a person alone may want to work in Galicia — which will be many, too early — he has to get out, we can't feel happy. But let's all put together and contextualize the relationship, and not that bad world, which sometimes tends to paint all of you. Like in the area of poverty. Let us not take advantage of this question of poverty to continue giving one another. With only one person under the pre-determined threshold, we wouldn't feel happy. We're not happy to be the third autonomous community that best behaves in Spain, because we're talking about poverty. That's never good, we're the first to recognize it. That is why we always say and say until satiety, and with the objective of 2020, that we do not consider economic recovery to be universal and complete as long as there are collectives that are suffering the consequences. So that's where our performances go, and that's where much of our resources go. And on this subject, when it is said, for example, that the growth of Risga, man!, as it is said, to retread and play the bells all at once. It's incredible again as starting from an objective reality, which is the need for certain collectives, if they question and criticize that the Galician Union is able to allocate greater resources to meet that reality. I think it's an act of normality, that's the ABC. Certain levels and actions are not therefore criticized. So I very much appreciate the generalities that most of you have spoken to, but also -- and to finish perhaps in a somewhat more normal tone on my part -- when you talk about debt, it's that when you talk about debt it's to cry and get out of this Parliament. It turns out that Galicia is the autonomous community where the debt has been reduced, and we're criticized for being one hundred and something percent. Please repeat again: Galicia is the autonomous community where the debt has decreased since 2008. That means serious, that means that things have been done very well, because we are paying less interest, 94 million euros over the last two years. And I also advance that, if I continue with this tonic, it will be almost another seventy million euros by the year 2018. I hope I don't have to come here to apologize again for doing things medium enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u44	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the turn now by the Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group of Wales to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u45	Well, good day again. I will begin my speech by telling you that there is something we agree on, that logically the State budgets are still going to be able to know them throughout today, in particular we who are careful and attentive to the parliamentary debate. But for some news that's already coming, one of the games that's going on is -- like? -- the King's House. You'll understand that for me as a Galician and Republican because I'm not in line with this model, so I go into the state box and the state box comes in for things that I don't care about at all like this. [[Applause]] Well, jokes aside, now that with all due respect, Mr Martínez, I cannot allow the People's Party to say that this parliamentary group is what runs away from consensus or that we are not able to add to consensus. I would remind you, for example, that the first consensus that was adopted in this short period of legislation was precisely on the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] Another thing is their awareness as a political party as to what they do with the consensus, and in particular with the consensus they send from this Parliament, what we have also been aware of in this period: from AP-9 to that law years ago there are the preferences and other kinds of issues. But, of course, if there is a political group that is capable of generating consensus, it is us. Another question is that when we're debating something as elementary and as fundamental as the economic allocation of our community, logically, by being the only force present here without state dependencies, because that affects us that we don't have the corsets that have others and that we are much more ambitious. Tell you that there are no studies. Well, apart from the fact that we're not talking about the generalized concert for all latitudes in the state, apart from that this is wrong, although we can't go into detail today, because I remind you that precisely this parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to its budgets to its board of directors in which a study on these kinds of issues was requested. Let's prove we're so wrong! But, of course, taking into account that their level of debate on the question of funding in this German Parliament is limited to a motion without too much debate and to appoint an expert, because logically that does not satisfy us. When they want to debate in depth here we will be. You also give the reason that you say — you really acknowledged it in your first intervention — that the model of what we have been given is insufficient, but then you justify that it is absolutely enough for that extra income, "additional" in the words of the People's Party, which is now coming back. Then they should clarify. In any case, we can talk about the technique of budgetary debate, but finally the important thing is that the financing model and budget decisions are always political decisions, which is what we want to make here today. So today's phantastic decisions, we understand that they build Galicia tomorrow, and since the BNG we will not be complicit in silence or omission with the mortgage that the People's Party condemns. There are issues for us that have not been accepted in their exhibitions. Nothing said about how big business fraud will be pursued, for example; nothing said about what it will do so that more than 15 billion euros of Greek savings will be emigrated to credits outside the country, mortgaged even more the policy of our savings; or it didn't explain beyond the headlines that bet by that new production model, when we are then going to break down the effort in GDP or other parameters, when the R & D+i of this nation remains absolutely insufficient. So it doesn't seem like a receipt. Nor in my first intervention could I go into debt, but to speak seriously about the future when we would not get the budget of one year of the board to pay for the debt we've already contracted because it's something that deserves our attention. Because we are not opposed to increasing debt at a time of economic recession, but now that macroeconomic indicators are moving towards growth, we understand that maintenance of debt increases proves that the growth that you predict is not sustainable. Allow me also before I finish my intervention to add something that hasn't given me time before. You have drawn a lot of breast in your speech about the new job situation of the workers and workers of the consortium and of the workers and workers of the fire department. We are a matter of which we rejoice, though we also nuanced that in the matter of firemen we do not give it to be finished, but, of course, what it took them long for is not to draw too much breast.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u47	I'm finishing by saying that the consequences of the crisis have been worsened by a lot of data that have already been given, and in others that you haven't really trusted as the issue of the active population, that if anything is a negative indicator in our country, that's that. But we understand that this model of funding, these budgets, these strategic lines, are not meant to cement a Galician future in a context where the consequences of the socio-economic crisis have worsened the situation with which we strive. So the effort would have to be even bigger, and we need even more resources...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u48	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u49	...of what we had been gifted before we started here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas Berganginos. You have the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Puy, first of all, data twists, too, they say what one wants them to say, always. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I don't think anyone here said that you caused the crisis, but it's true that they caused the inequalities in our society as a result of the crisis. And that's an undeniable fact. If they're guilty of not having implemented policies that minimized those collateral damage to their austerity policies, those of the People's Party's austerity policies. And that's what they're guilty of. They don't come back, please, to use healthy growth, and less defending exports, because to be a healthy country we have to have a healthy population. And right now, bad that they care about everyone — you and us too — we don't have a healthy population unfortunately, and thanks to their policies. Look, you always devote your policies to reducing spending in all budget games, well, because it was your priority not to attend to people. But why don't you try to increase your income? Why don't you manage Atriga no longer pursue tax fraud, why don't you spend more money on Atliga, why don't you check the tax benefits on corporate tax, why don't you save the higher income? That there may also be income and may allow redistribution. Another thing, Counselor, if the state data is wrong, please send us the actual data on paper, since we in the case of health were unable to find them. And I'm telling you more: if budgets say that the total number of health personnel has increased 41, not 40, explain me as a system subject to replenishment rates of 10, 25 or 50% in some year as much it is possible to grow. Tell me why I don't understand. They cheated, or cheated on the budget or replenishment. I suppose the difference, of course, will be in that temporary contract that we were initially talking about. And that temporary recruitment — and not only do we think it, I also think those who are temporarily hired — is precarious. Because their conditions are in precarious conditions, they're not on equal terms with the rest of the public workers. By the way, since we spoke here of the 247 million that announced us yesterday to the vice president of the Government, Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría, and noted several times that they are additional, I ask you: will they bring a budgetary change to include them in the budget and tell us what they're going to dedicate to? We'll be clear, please, Counselor, because I'm still not clear. And on the subject of self-financing -- I'm not going to have an impact on the data I gave at first, that debt in this autonomy has increased considerably -- I'm going to tell you something. It is true that there was a crisis in the public archives and, therefore, the Central Government has enabled a liquidity fund to rescue both autonomous communities and municipalities, so that they could comply with the provision of their public services. These in a beginning were extraordinary but now it seems to be becoming structural. Galicia was from the communities, among others, which did not opt at first to the FLA, but which was then applied — because, of course, they protested — a measure that did not sound bad and did not sound bad, and which was called the Fund of Financial Facility. But in reality it's the same thing, what happens is that the count is much smaller: 2,146 million, which is 20.2 % of the liability it accumulates, which — I repeat — is 10,624 million. And on the subject of employment, Montoro's blackmail and threat to paralyze the public employment supply, and after the lies with which the Galician society was subjected, the unions and opponents and political groups did in part what all the agents involved indicated to the Greek Government, that they urged the central government and passed a decree that had unlocked this situation. This bill has been published, but I ask you: in Galicia they have only been released for education and universities, what about the 1,600 health facilities that were approved in the past full?, what about the rest of the sectors — social services, local police, firefighters -- from which you spoke before?, are you exempt from a new blackmail for the general budgets of the State? Tell me, Counsellor, how the Councillor of Galicia will act — and you, in particular, as responsible for the public service — in this situation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u53	Mr. Puy, I'm willing to wake up with you that it wasn't Feijó that brought us into the recession whenever you remember me that it wasn't Valeriano Martínez that brought us out of the recession. And I believe that, indeed, the Greek economy is part of a Spanish and European economic cycle. And we do not provoke the Lehman Brothers crisis, nor do Greece or Portugal grow up, we are not the culprits of that. I believe that what we always face in front of the Union and the People's Party is that what they did was monaguilos of the politics of the Troika, of the politics of compulsive austerity, which caused the double recession in Europe and which caused the longest crisis, especially in the southern states of Europe. That's your responsibility. It's not his policy that gets us out of recession. Because of wage devaluation and austerity we've had the longest crisis in 100 years. We don't have to explain why GDP grows, what we have to explain is why we took so long to get back to that situation. In this sense, the political responsibility of the Galician Union is the differential, the difference with respect to the average values of Spain. And I insist on three facts: first, since the recession the Greek economy began, it has grown two points less until 2016 than the Spanish economy, negative differential; second, Galicia is the autonomous community — councillor, please deny it — that it has the worst evolution of employment throughout the state, from the year 2008 to the year 2016; third, Galicia is the autonomous community that has the second worst evolution in unemployment — after Extremes — in that same period. And that's the differential. Deny the data if it's who, it's EPA data, and if you don't explain why it happens. Man, I'm not going to deny that GDP is growing, that's a statistical matter. Because the growing GDP has a lot to do with the productive activity of companies, especially those who are open-market advocates. What is the responsibility of a government? Make that economic growth move to society. And that's where they suspend, because this is an accist phase of the cycle that can't be called recovery, because recovering is to have back the rights, the variables of employment, the public services and social protection that we had before the recession. So there's a high stage of the cycle. But this is a government that insists on inequality. There is a problem of the primary distribution of income in favour of business profits and against wages, and there is a secondary tax breakdown — since Mr Martínez is proud — that we lower the taxes on income and raise taxes and VAT. Because in your equation you have to include the extra part: we're down the IRPF because we're going up the IVE. Perfect. It's a right-wing neoliberal model that goes against the progressive idea of a tax system. Third, I want to give a data that if I escape, I want to set an example of why growth is not recovery. You're glad that the salaries of public employees are going to be 1%, or the central government that pensions are going to be 0.25%. What is the average IPC of the first quarter in Galicia of 2017? Three percent. So, you raise the wages at 1% and inflation at 3%, and that's recovery, is that rising wages or is it causing a loss of two points of purchasing power? In that sense, the exit of the recession is being made about precariousness and inequality. Counsellor, I will give you a fact that you are not able to understand it — I insist again —: if I compare the employees, fourth quarter of 2016 with the fourth quarter of 2013 — when the recovery started — 95% of all the new wage employment is precarious. I'm not talking about monthly procurement flows, I'm talking about the stock variable. Well, I suppose the Jacobin is me in his reference, I'm not. But let me tell you three questions: First, don't go to the free public funding fund and go to BBVA to ask you for money, because don't I know who you'd rather depend on?, where's the conditionality?, who would rather send you? The second idea is that it's hard to understand that it's funding more expensive guys with private banks instead of doing so with the central government. That's going to have to explain it many times. Because if it's true that we've saved 392 million euros in just two years of going to the bottom, why didn't we do it before? The third idea is that, of course, to talk about conditionality — since the autonomous communities that have resorted to funding funds have conditionality — does Catalonia have conditionality? I mean, can anyone say that the Generalitat of Catalonia stands firm in front of Montoro and applies the payment to suppliers? Are we serious? I mean, does Catalunya have conditionality right now? Be serious, Counselor. I tell you one last question — and I will finish, Mr President, we are very disappointed at the evolution of debt, we are very disappointed that they have been indebted to banks at a huge overcost. And I anticipate that one of the initiatives we are going to develop in this Parliament is to do an audit of the Greek public debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u54	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In these few minutes I have wanted to say that I didn't hear any opposition group applaud when 12.3% of the state's investment with an absolute government by most of the PP came to Galicia, and nobody said it was a miracle. So now the problem is that they're reduced to that. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I'll tell you something: in Catalonia they've announced 4,000 million in four years. And in Galicia we're going to see that we're away from 1 billion in a year, which is what's happening to Catalonia if we divide 4 billion into infrastructure in a year. And said this, I think we'll have a chance to talk from there. The BNG said, counselor, that you had insufficient strategic challenges, and, curiously, they only marked one, strictly ideologically, nothing technical, which is that there is a coupon in Galicia. I, in fact, don't understand the matter very well. Mrs. Presas, I'd like you to tell me some example of an autonomous community where the expert was agreed, except for Galicia, at least with some opposition group. Mrs. Martínez Rumbo, you said I was twisting the data. I gave all the data with your source, there are others you can use, but you didn't tell me a single data you had misused. Instead, you gave a data that I will complete. He said that the per capita debt in Galicia was 3,900 euros, which is true; what he didn't say is that in Spain it is 5,947, that is, that a Greek owes almost two thousand euros less per capita as a result of autonomic indebtedness. And here, man!, the data can be interpreted as flexibly as you want, but — as has already been said to you several times — Galicia is from the autonomous communities that have been least indebted to the crisis, which I think is important thinking about future generations. And I'm going to tell you another thing: I'd prefer that the occupation grows in Galicia as a result of the export of Galician companies and that there are more Greek companies that export than by hiring people seven months to clean up their coupons. That was the employment plan you did in 2008 shortly before you left the government. With regard to Mr. Lago, of course, I can agree that Mr. Martínez did not get us into the crisis, but he had something to do with us getting out of the crisis, because Mr. Martínez has been working in the Business Council but a lot of work in the Government since the first day, and nothing less than in the General Secretariat of the Presidency. You know there was a game on TV called "The Fair Price." You said 250, at the end of the year, what's announced is 247, 70 already were, 70 was government forecast, 70. It turns out that 40-50 is the 1% increase in the salary of government officials who have authorized the state, so more than 70 are about 125 -- that is, we would actually have 125 million more. Counsellor predicted 70, it was 125; you predicted 250, with which we would already have a hole of 125 million euros. I'd rather stay short and win "The Fair Price" than pass and have a hole. [[Applause]] Mr. Martínez didn't go up the IVE either. I suppose we can agree on this, that it had nothing to do with the rise of the IVE. What is interesting is to compare international taxation. Spain has less fiscal pressure than the average of the OECD countries, but it turns out that the VAT is below the average — it has compared it — with the European Union of Twenty-eight: 7% over GDP in the European Union, 6.5 in Spain, half below; the IRPF, 9.4 in the European Union, 7.4 in Spain; and the company tax 2.5 and 2.4 in Spain. So if you look at where the margin of manoeuvre is to increase tax pressure, which is possibly what you do in your speech defends, because we are going to the measures of the European Union — by not going any further — and we see that if there have been upswings from the VAT, they are not as exaggerated or, of course, they can interpret ideologically as you do. If you take the official information of the Ministry, you can see that in 2011, the last year of the Left Government, the fiscal pressure, the indirect expected collection, was 44% of the total taxes; in 2016, due to the crisis and the recovery of consumption, but not of the companies, it was 46.2, it rose slightly; and in 2017 it again decreased to 45.7. So to draw from a point of view on the margin that we have with regard to the European Union's average that VAT is an antisocial policy, and so on, to me it certainly seems excessive. As I think it is excessive to say that there is no conditionality in the Financial Facility Fund. I have here the certification of the Government Committee for Economic Affairs, the agreement of 3 March: "You have adopted a new package of additional conditions to be able to access funding through the 2017 FLA, which have to do with market unity, digital administration and public employment. Some of these measures were already promoted in the previous agreement, which included conditionality, among others, adherence to the instrument of support for the sustainability of the pharmaceutical health expenditure, the signing of the protocol of cooperation signed between the General Administration of the State and the Farm Industry", and so forth, and so forth, and so forth. To say that there is no conditionality and that we do not lose autonomy if we enter the FLA it's not necessary. We're reducing the stops. There was a data in today's statistics, which were made public at 9 a.m.: the general recruitment in Galicia, the recruitment grew by 14,88% compared to the previous year. The indefinite grew by 23.8%, exceeding ten points at a time, which grew by 13.22%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u57	I believe that this is a good fact and that we must all congratulate ourselves. I was saying — to finish — the opposition spokesman that the government actually does not create jobs, but creates the conditions for employment and then redistributes income. I think you, in general, have a problem, and it's that speech and its predictions and reality don't sympathize with each other, they announced "austericide." Actually, we had to be decreasing the 3.4, not growing the 3.4, if we had listened to his previous speech. Let a counselor come and announce, among other things, that more than 3,000 public employees will be hired after the crisis has been overcome, that they have already recovered...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u59	...what was the reduction in their public salaries, and that the public employees were kept and that the conditions of the public workers who were in worse condition were equal, because this really doesn't sympathize with the speech that we are a neoliberal and ultraliberal government that we don't defend the public.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u61	We, Counsellor, share — as we say — its objectives; it contributes from the public sector to the growth of the economy in order to be able to redistribute income among all better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u62	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Close the show, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u63	Thank you again, Mr. President. To Mrs BNG's voicer, in this case, I think it's good that among all, although from different positions, let's try and talk and, if possible, reach consensus, especially in such a delicate matter, as strategic for the autonomous community as self-financing can be. If you tell them that obviously an à la carte model, a concert model just for us, might have a similar approach to what you're proposing. What is theoretically implemented is that a generalization of the concert model can result in a comparative advantage for our community. That's by no means what I'm talking about. And the rest of them are utopias for their part to raise these kinds of issues, even by the economists who try to. Apart from that, let me call two things, and it's not, please, a chascar. When you end your intervention you refer to forest firefighters and consortium in welfare services, we must not forget that the welfare consortium was created by whom it was created. And it turns out then, when certain workers were taken in working conditions that were not homonymous until now, neither in working conditions nor in pay to BNG itself, twenty-one percent in the same categories of staff who were already employed in the Galician Union. And now come to teach, for truly one is left with the little body...! I really don't know how to do it with some of you. They're always right and it's always bad when they come here to give reason, either a, b or c, in 180 degrees of difference between the issues. As well as when it comes to debt, some other intervener spoke about debt as well. The debt where you have to use it to do anticyclical is at the recession stage, that's where you have to put your hand to try to dynamize. That's how we've been doing it and in an ever more controlled way than any other autonomous community. Our debt will perfectly be slashed in its absolute size in 2018. As you know, this year we have a limit of 0.6-0.5 -- that's what we've brought in budgets -- next year 0.3, like any other autonomous community. So it's just becoming a strategic policy issue to have an important component within Financial Facility, not so much FLA, of Financial Facility. And our debt structure next year will be located 58% in Financial Facility, with which that is a fundamental value, as at the moment it was the option of going to market, short-term and market. Those are options that every government in a free way has to take and decide. Man, I understand we have the bad board. I always say we're in the middle of the sandwich, for the good and the bad, eh! But usually, when the opposition groups are referred to and when they refer to the PSOE's voice of tax benefits in corporate tax, I offer myself even to reconsider this issue, as since this Parliament we urge those with responsibility for corporate tax. But to tell him that the Board or the Business Council is reviewing the tax benefits in society tax, is that, in fact, one has such a bit of a trepidation, as when it gets a little trepidated when concepts are introduced... in all my respect, we should be a little more rigorous when we talk about temporality, when we talk about precariousness, when we connect it with public services. Because in public services, in essence, we can have more or less temporality, more or less interimity, but precariousness in what is called the provision of services and what is called pay, the light years of any other parameter that may exist in the civil economy. So I don't take those thesis that are so yours, when they don't rule, by the way. And what I can tell you is that we have the lowest rate of temporality and interimity in all of Spain, and yet, not being in line with what we have, we're going to keep walking to put it under the target that the state level is quantified by 8%, and we're going to get from the first one under 8%. And that means once again, because we were rigorous, that in the job offer for education there is already enough legal guarantee, and those who open their mouths and said that they would call, today they won't call; we do, now that there's legal certainty right now. As I am also forwarding that, as far as we are sure, — as we have said — health will be closer to one thousand six hundred and in the rest of public service, taking into account education, health care, without counting these eight hundred to the greater health, we will exceed three thousand, three thousand and three thousand and two hundred, not the three thousand that I have gone forward. So this government does believe in an ever more dignified and more stable work within the general public function. But the most important thing that comes to us today is that particularly if we consider ourselves to be in a key legislation for Galicia, because of the correctness of all, also of the mistakes, in the next four years, it will depend to a large extent on how we complete the economic recovery of Galician citizens. After very hard times have passed, I think we have succeeded among all — not just this government, among all — in adjusting the situation, but we also recognize once again that unfortunately many Greeks and Greeks still experience complicated situations. Those Greeks and Greeks that most need us will be our priority over these four years, because that's the only way we'll achieve complete and universal economic recovery. Fortunately, the beginning of this legislation is totally opposed to positive at the beginning of the previous one. We have passed from the greatest recession in the history of autonomy to the greatest growth in nine years; we have lost jobs to create 40,000 full-time jobs in the last two years; and we have passed from the greatest loss of income due to the crisis to have the ability to test the greatest tax reduction in Galician history, which leaves 99% of the Greeks tax free from inheritance taxes and which eliminates taxes to work and live in rural areas. And we did it with autonomy, without guardianship, exercising our self-government, to shield public services and paying our obligations to our suppliers at all times. And in this line we have to continue, without triumphalism, but with confidence. With the trust that comes to us we have already recovered, today, the levels of wealth has prescribed and is ready to deepen this healthy and sustained growth; with the confidence that it brings us to the possible challenge to generate each year of this legislation between 17 thousand and twenty thousand new jobs; with the confidence that it will bring us into force the greatest fiscal downturn in Galicia's history; with the confidence that institutional stability, credibility; and with the confidence that Galicia generates. The known data from the last year 2016 are encouraging: the largest growth in nine years, the growing pace of job creation, the declining deficit, the controlled and low debt and the new export record. And this trust, despite situations at the international level such as Brexit, which will undoubtedly affect Spain and Galicia, is strengthened because the first indicators we have in 2017 are still hopeful. Positive data in key sectors of the Greek economy such as industry and services ratify that our community continues to record at this beginning of exercise a solid economic growth, and the objective cannot be anything but, day by day, month by year, throughout this legislation, to consolidate this trend. Ladies and gentlemen, I reiterate that Galicia is emerging from the economic crisis with a more modern economy, better prepared to face the future. The challenge is four years of sustained growth and gradual decline of unemployment and better employment, to fulfill the roadmap designed in our 2015-2020 Strategic Plan, to sink into a model of healthy growth, more resistant to future cycle changes. I'm sure there will be better moments on this path and others not so good, but I'm sure, with the work together, with the involvement of all, we'll be able to reach 2020 with a more prosperous Galicia and with more future. Let me tell you that then we'd be making Welsh today for Galicia in the morning. Thank you all very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u64	Thank you, Counselor. We continue with the third point on the agenda, which is motions. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of mental health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u65	This motion was tabled with an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u66	To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u67	Thank you, President. In the past full we brought the debate an interpellation that demanded the Health Counsellor to respond to the concerns that cause the cuts — those that have just been denied — applied over the last few years to mental health; cuts that come into the light when unfortunately appear in the new media, such events as those suicides in hospital units, which have precisely motivated us to call upon the Health Counsellor; cuts that are systematically denied by the Council, as if they were not real complaints that denounce the abandonment of the public system, complaints that denounce the absence of protocols for professionals, complaints that denounce waiting lists in mental health services. A mental health that, as we said in the previous plenary session, is usually the poor sister of public health, a very important part in what is usually little invested. It must be taken into account that, precisely, with this budget reduction that has just come to the debate in recent years, if it was already wrong, the problem is getting worse and worse. And just at a time when, with the consequences of the crisis in mental health, this one had to be strengthened, quite the opposite of what's happening. After the deepest denunciation we have made in the past full, today we bring the proposal of En Marea, which is nothing more than the reality gathered during the last few years of work with professional groups. The proposed measures are obviously not the only necessary measures; the proposed measures are, the content of the mental health situation, the peripheries, the urgent ones, the most necessary in our understanding. Point one, number one. First of all, we want a new mental health plan to be developed urgently, but with a technical commission that establishes a truly participatory process in its design with the mental health professionals and with them. The Health Counsellor said in the full past that there was little to carry out that plan. The reality is that it's not true that everyone and all mental health professionals can participate in the design of what's their day-to-day, their work, their own work. An intelligent counsellor who wants and how valuable public staff works with them and with them in the design of all plans, not what is being done. There is neither access by professionals nor by these Members, nor in general society, to the memories of the centres themselves. It's very difficult to help in health planning. And this plan is delayed. It's too late. We can't be waiting for the Health Council to set in motion something that is absolutely essential. Point number 2. Secondly, a budgetary commitment will be allocated to this plan to enable it to be carried out. You can't improve mental health or any other health without money, no budgets, if you can't hire more personnel to eliminate, to go and search those waiting lists, to give more services. Papers just aren't worth, plans are indispensable, but they're not worth them alone. The Council must make a real commitment. And to commit, to be responsible, to be true health managers implies an budget that can be committed to a plan; otherwise, they would be selling us once more smoke, because there is no commitment that you can do what is written if there is no budget related. Point 3, third. Develop the new suicide prevention and care plan in the same terms; that is, a plan that is, on the one hand, participated and a plan that has a budget to be able to carry it out, with investment. Suicides duplicate deaths due to traffic accidents in Galicia, but we don't have an updated plan with resources. Suicides have increased beyond the crisis; we have already discussed it in this House, but no extraordinary action has been taken to strengthen what should be the attention and prevention of this serious problem. We affirm once again that the cuts actually kill, and the Council is responsible for trying to prevent these suicides, and therefore it has to make decisions in this regard, with psychologists, with psychologists, with psychiatrists, with social workers and workers, with social assistance and resources — yes, also with social outputs; this has to come into the suicide prevention plans itself — and minimize all possibilities. And, of course, avoiding suicides in hospitalized people also requires more public health resources. Point 4, fourth place. As soon as possible, assess the situation of those people who have been moved from the old asylums — called those — in order to be able to place them in public services that contain special mental health care that these people need. We've been asking opposition groups for years since this measure was taken. We've been years, professionals have also been complaining about their abandonment, their helplessness. What possibilities do you, ladies and gentlemen, have a person with an institutionalized mental health problem for years of being able to defend himself if he does not have the right services, if there's bad attention, if there's a missing person? What capacity does a person have to defend himself with a mental health problem in front of the administration? They don't. That's why we claim it. You can't take a person from an institution in this health care case, from mental health care, which was obviously an obsolete model, and move him to a residence of elderly without a mental health service, or to a residence in general, or to a pension. It's not a problem with the model, it's a problem of human rights. Point 5, fifth place. Strengthening the CHUS Children's Youth Hospitalization Unit, providing it with the professionals and resources provided before its opening. We've already said it in the past, we've been discussing it here. The Board claims to have opened this unit, which has been opened with half the beds planned, and has not in the full past had any more remedy to the health counsellor than to recognise, indeed, that he should be endowed with a psychologist or psychologist, because he does not have it by the Child Youth Hospitalization Unit, he has no psychology professionals, and that is a very serious deficiency; that he should have one or a social worker, and he does not have it; and that he also does not care about occupational therapists. It's true there's a few hours of another unit, but there's no occupational therapist, there's no psychologist, there's no worker or social worker. And so you can't, so anyone opens up a new unit. This isn't quality attention. And sixth point, sixth place. Carry out this year's design of this new Children's Youth Hospitalization Unit in the southern part of Galicia. No more ads, please! It's been years since, even in the past legislation, listening to the promise of that new unit, which they really do not want or cannot do, because it's not logical that it is promised for years and that there is not even a minimum planning to be able to carry it out. We want real commitments and, at least, planned this year. We don't ask for it to be operational anymore, but take it and plan it with the mental health professionals to be able to carry it out in the coming years. If it doesn't materialize, we understand it's because there's no will. Point 7, seventh point, and final in this proposal. To carry out, within the framework of the Mental Health Plan, a planning for the increase of mental health professionals, placing special emphasis on mental health units and day-to-day hospitals, which are the ones with the most deficiencies and equipping these and these professionals with clinical psychology. Why do we insist? The counselor told us that we insisted very much on this, in the basic units of mental health and psychology. Because prevention, prevention and more prevention are needed. With these suicide data, with these mental health problems data, we need primary prevention and secondary prevention. And the closest attention has to have a resolutional capacity in mental health. We have unemployment, we have a crisis situation and we have a quarter of the population in social exclusion. We also have more and more cases of harassment at school — worrying. We have gender-based violence, and I don't just mean the complaint and that agreement with the College of Psychologists and Psychologists, and one out of three primary care consultations, according to professionals, has a psychological component. Maybe not everyone needs a purely mental health performance, but they have it. And that's why we also need to strengthen prevention, so that problems don't go too far, they don't grow. And also psychological components are the second cause of temporary incapacity in jobs in our country. We also need more nurses and mental health nurses, specialists, and supply these structural deficiencies of all mental health personnel. We've already said before that usually before it was where the least investment was, it's one of the least invested in, and logically after the crisis it's more deteriorating. And we need, ladies and gentlemen, to implement these clinical psychologists and psychologists also in that primary care. I'm done, ladies. We therefore need the Union to take seriously what the World Health Organization says, that health is the complete state of physical, social and mental well-being. Nothing else for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. We, in the meantime, want to announce that we will support this motion. We have tabled some amendments that we believe can help improve, enrich the proposal, but at any rate we support it, because we believe it to be in the diagnosis, because it is also relevant in its presentation. True: mental health is the poor sister of the healthy branches. We say it to the professionals, we say it to those we know, we study the subject, and they know it – probably better than anyone – the users, the patients. Galicia has two major deficits: the first, planning, and the second, of resources. Planning goes through having a plan. There's a saying in chess that says, "It's better to have a bad plan than to have no plan." I don't know if it was bad or good, but what's certain is there was a plan, which is not now. A Greek Mental Health Plan 2006-2011, which is known to dislike the Council and not share it, and it's legitimate not to share the criteria, but I've been taught that when you don't agree with something, the best thing you can do is to improve it. So, not using an existing plan, an existing strategy to not use any other one is a problem. And we wondered why and why that plan was replaced if nothing new was proposed. And there's a planning problem. There's a Kidney Youth Hospitalization Unit in the South Proposal, which is a good idea. Two hundred thousand under 17 years of age between Vigo and Ourense would need specific attention. How many times did you promise? When was the first time you promised? We'd like to know a little bit what the reflection is on promising so much not to do. And there's a need to reorganize the Coruña Health Area in terms of mental health. There is a serious problem of disorder, of dissemination of services, of difficulties in connecting and being able to be efficient. That dispersal prevents the service from giving quality. It is important to plan for future infant-youth day hospitals, which would already be needed in the cities of Galicia and which exist in other autonomous communities already, in other communities in which it is already being done, that exist, that yield good results. We don't have anyone in Galicia. And we also support the idea of developing a suicide prevention plan; indeed, in prevention, in prevention. And it would be very important — and there's an example in Ourense of good work — to develop a plan at the Greek level. 60% of suicide attempts can be detected in primary care; they tell all scientific studies. Therefore, the possibility of incorporating mental health professionals into primary care would enable us to identify those indicators, which are preclared, which are clear and that would allow us to give better and more efficient health care. It's a matter of planning and, for that, there's a need for will. Besides, there's a resource problem, yes. The other day the counselor said that the recommended ratios were met; he said it and it's a usual mantra. The Spanish Association of Neuropsychiatry and Mental Health Professionals issued an assessment in April 2016 — I think it is important — giving figures for every 100,000 inhabitants. The recommendation is 6 psychiatrists. The current average across Spain — and the ones in Catalonia, which are not incorporated because they were not offered — is 3.4. The most popular community is the Basque Country, with 5; the lowest rate in Spain is Galicia, with 2.3. In the case of clinical psychologists, it is recommended 4. The average of Spain is over 2, two and a half; the highest rate is -3.22 - the lowest rate is Castela-A Mancha; the lowest rate is Galicia, with 1.2; 1.2 psychologists per 100.00 inhabitants. There's a third part, nurses, who need a clear recognition of their specialty, a clear recognition, and not promise recognition that never comes. Recommended nurses, 3 per 100,000; the current average in Spain is 1.84 -- not enough to 2, is still low -- the highest, the Basque Country again, with 3.35; and if the lowest of psychiatrists were Galicia, if the lowest in all Spain of psychologists was Galicia, the lowest in nurses is Galicia. So, there's data that doesn't have to twist excessively, they're pretty clear, and these are the ratios, they're objective data. We can argue if we think it's a bet or not a bet. Those we consider that mental health should not even be a poor brother but that it must be a branch with all legitimacy like the others, with all the desire to strive for it like the others and that, in addition, it is true that in recent times it has been taking relatively great importance for other matters as it has already been pointed out here and that unfortunately they are true, what we need is to provide resources to the system. So without going into the issues mentioned here about the CHUS, which are also clearly certain, I think it is necessary to defend that planning is important, that resource allocation is important, and these two elements will contribute to making better mental health in Galicia, because we have some challenges ahead, and I think it is necessary to reflect on these data. Finally, I just didn't want to go by without mentioning that the counselor the other day at the interpellation -- I had to go back to it twice because it seemed surprising -- he said, "It's not my turn to talk about the lack of transparency of the selection processes in the field of mental health." And I remind the manager that they had to remove from Pontevedra for having judicial judgments against them by selection processes, because maybe mental health here is meant for some people to make their realms of Taifas and we can't provide quality health care with professionals who are fully recognized for their work, their colleagues and even their users. So more personal, more planning. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u70	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u71	Good day to all and all. The progressive deterioration in mental health care in Galicia has been the subject of multiple attention calls. On numerous occasions I have been alerted by professionals, by collectives and political organizations of which the situation was and that one of the major damage to the people's health policy was mental health; a situation caused by precisely these cuts and the way of management without planning and without counting on the professionals, and, as a result, the quality of care, the safety of the patients and the safety and professionalism of the people working in the field is compromised. The situation, of course, requires immediate action and requires preventive action. The therapeutic purpose of hospitalization must be strengthened; it should not be hospitalization as a step in which people with mental health problems have been deposited, but should be given real attention. We need respect for people's fundamental rights and we need sufficient professional skills and adequate qualifications. Of course, what is not necessary is the position of self-comprehensiveness that showed the counselor more than once in the last two appearances to talk about this issue, because the situation of mental health, of course, is not much less to self-comprehensive or to say that everything is okay. Sergas is not developing planning measures or evaluation measures, nor is it developing necessary resources, coordination and information to improve the attention of people who need mental health care. In times of crisis, any action with a minimum of reflection and common sense should lead to increased budgets for mental health care because it is more than proven that risks and mental health damage increase in these crisis situations. But far from that, of course, the People's Party has not only increased resources but has diminished them. And with the cuts they lose in prevention, they lose in rehabilitation and reintegration people with mental disorders, mainly people with serious mental health disorders, because they're the ones that are most affected. That is why the BNG will support this initiative, because once and for all a strategic mental health plan is being carried out and budgeted, and that once and for all there is simply action to reduce the high suicide rates recorded in recent years, for which, of course, a suicide prevention plan has to be carried out. He announced the adviser in the past who was about to take place and who was about to introduce himself, and of course the question is: how late?, with how much denial of reality by the People's Party and with so many attempts to discredit all those collectives and professionals and the political groups of this House's opposition every time we alert about the situation of suicide? How many bluffs later? Here, of course, I want to acknowledge the work of the Galego Mental Health Movement, which made a very obvious effort to really see what was the situation in Galicia on this matter. And Galicia is without mental health planning; the People's Party has left mental health hanging. The very serious events at the Mental Health Unit of the Conxo Hospital or the CHUAC can't be solved with a "good thing", "it's done all right," because of course, the situation isn't much better. These events, which have come to public light, but unfortunately there are many that do not come to public light, there are many who remain anonymous, of course, what they do is to put the People's Party Government against the mirror, the mirror in which the consequences of their health policies are reflected. We have been reporting for years this deterioration of mental health, insufficient budgets, lack of planning, mismanagement. We said that this act compromised the health and life of the patients and the working conditions of the professionals; we denounced the entry of new people without protection protocols, that there are no specific protocols for the protection of aggressions, that the infant-youth units are systematically advertising, but not after occupation by the People's Party; that mental health specialty was created in 2009, but that since then no squares have been created... well, we could make a sum and follow. In the face of this situation, what we find ourselves in is that the Government's response is a small fraction of existing resources, many of them created over fifteen years ago, and that the People's Party plan is to have no plan, because, if you don't have a plan, you don't have to contrast, you don't have to evaluate, you don't have to account...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u73	...that it doesn't exist. So we support this initiative and, of course, what we expect from the BNG is that, beyond all propaganda measures, once and for all we take seriously that mental health is a tragedy in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u75	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Solla, I am not surprised at each of your interventions on health issues the vehemence with which it is reaffirmed in the deterioration and poor quality of Greek health and the public system, doubting even repeatedly the work of the professionals. Faced with that, you defend yourself in the body of expression of your party, the Communist Party, the magnificent health system, for example, of the Cuban dictatorship. It seems that dictator Castro, whom Mr. Fidel Castro, did not feel the same when he had to operate and had to send a surgeon from Madrid to operate. But, well, comparing Cuban health with Welsh health is about the same or similar to comparing Venezuela's democratic quality, for example, with the UK. [[Applause]] But, by the way, you're presenting a seven-point motion, which has already been answered practically in full by the advisor at the plenary session two weeks ago. You also talk about the events of Conxo, or they spoke at the moment, and you repeat it again now, even what happened at the CHUAC. I, in relation to it, want to tell you that you know that health authorities cannot use or publicize information, which is under professional secrecy or under data protection, but the judge will be in charge of clarifying the circumstances of these alleged facts to which you referred. He speaks of the motion to urgently develop the new Mental Health Plan with a technical commission that establishes a participatory process with professionals and also to develop a suicide prevention care plan in the same terms, which is already being done. He has already explained that he has been working for months with a group of experts — experts who seem not to like you — in the development of the Galician suicide prevention plan, consensualizing strategic measures and lines and with work proposals for the development of care processes and coordination actions necessary for his implementation. I think you tend to talk often with very small or very specific groups, and perhaps you lose the overall view of the suicide problem, as many other problems are being discussed in this Chamber. With regard to the Galese Mental Health Strategic Plan 2017-2020, it is an electoral commitment of the Galician People's Party which was part of its program and which seeks to preserve and improve the mental health of the Galician and the Galician people. We have described with you the concept of the urgent development of that plan. You know well — Mr Almuña explained here — that for years a national plan has been drawn up and that, in the end, it has been buried in the interterritorial by the governments in which you rule or support. The councillor also said that the German Government will no longer wait, that it will continue with the development of this plan, without delay but without pause, counting on the collaboration of health counsellors, along with other administrations, in addition to patient associations. On point 4, we're not going, Mrs. Solla, as much as you try to ask for it, reopen the asylums, either by that name or by any other name. The scientific community is against that, and people affected by mental illness deserve and should be integrated into society, and so we will continue to support it from the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia. With regard to the CHUS Infant Youth Hospitalization Unit, it is adequately equipped with personnel and resources for current needs; there is no saturation or occupation problems, according to information I could receive. With regard to the hospitalization unit in southern Galicia, I mean it was also a proposal, included in the electoral program of our party, which will be implemented, being in consultation with different collectives and professionals to assess its location and the resources needed for its operation. On the other hand, following the guidance of the European Network of Mental Health Recommendations, in line with the Sergas Strategy 2014, various actions have been carried out to enhance the attention of the child-child group, including the creation of hospitalization units, such as Santiago's, which I want to remind you here that it started in 2012, neither in 2006, nor in 2007, nor in 2008, nor in 2009; in 2012, ruling the People's Party. In addition, Galicia has eight outpatient mental health care devices integrated into the Sergas network, with the only exception of Ferrol's EOXI, which has already announced the advisor in the full past who will be under the same conditions in the near future. An outpatient psychiatric care unit was opened in Vigo as well. With regard to psychologists, understanding the collective's logical demands, I will repeat what the Counsellor has said: the figures are above the ratio of the European Union. Also in the past you made a statement, taking as a basis something that the College of Psychologists did. He said in primary care 1 out of every 3 queries had to do with emotional disorders or they had a psychological component. I don't know the scientific quality of the study, but I can assure you that with thirty years of professional practice I don't share those results for nothing. On the subject of nurses and nurses who specialize in mental health, we also agreed with the advisor. We must create these squares, but we must also respect the rights of professionals who are working in these units today and who are awaiting accreditation. In short, and to finish, ladies and gentlemen, as they always hear this voice, everything is improved, of course, but from the Popular Group we support the work of the Council in the elaboration of the aforementioned plans and the visible improvement of mental health in our community in recent years. We also support and thank the work of all the mental health professionals in Galicia, and we urge that progress be made towards the well-being of citizens. That's why we're not going to support your motion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u78	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to thank the opposition groups for the support of the initiative. As for the amendment, we are going to accept it; we find it interesting some of the points it raises and which can improve the initial text, of course, in the reference to professionals; in point 7, we referred to all of them. We always put emphasis on psychology because, precisely, there are no primary care and attention that should be more accessible, and how, of course, we defend a model that is basically preventive, it is essential, to our understanding. The name of the madhouses to me will understand that it's not what I'm fascinated with either. We're going to accept the amendment and change it for psychiatric hospitals, but that's what they used, and that's exactly the treatment they had even in their old health planning. Mr. Centeno, the truth is that I too am more and more surprised by the low quality of your interventions, since you have to go to Cuba and Venezuela to justify that you don't want to support En Marea's proposal simply because they don't want to vote in favour of us. And look, I'm gonna lose a few seconds. Yes, I am a communist, and I am very proud of it, and indeed the Cuban health system is a magnificent system, which, with the absence of many material resources, has done incredible things, even in health research. But here we are debating the public system of Galicia and the severe material deficiencies that have some services thanks to the cuts that have been made by its party, which says that it is so democratic and that it also defends access to public services. But it's not true, and the data, of course, and the quality, they notice them and perceive them all by all users. You say that if you're making a plan now, and we don't like you -- and you know, as usual, and I'm used to it -- who designs the plan. The reality is that professionals are not being able to participate. You say all professionals participate. I don't know if you're participating in what you want or if you don't realize that most of the people who work in mental health today can't participate. And besides, we have a very important ejacism, which I told you in the previous plenary, and that we're still having it, and that there's no access to memories because there's no memory of public centers, and that's a very important ejacism for health planning, in addition to a problem of the administration's obscurantism. Please don't lie, because you're lying more than you're talking about in some speeches. You said we wanted to open the asylums. Read the proposal well, what we're asking is that the people who have moved are controlled and seen what the quality of care they are receiving. This honourable Member - and we have discussed it on other occasions - does not defend the old model of mental health, but that is not an obvious thing for you to take care of the mental health care of the people who have moved to the homes of older people, because that is to leave them in a situation of defence against their human rights. And we can't agree that we have to keep living on electoral promises. You've already promised the Infant Youth Unit, of course, we know, we've been listening to the same peasantry for years. They promised, in addition, that this Unit of the CHUS Infanto-Juvenil would be properly equipped. It's not true what you say, it's not completely gifted. The councillor himself admitted it to the previous full. If you correct your own health adviser, come on! There's not enough resources in mental health. But you're still lying about our proposals, slandering and transferring the propaganda of the election party. We're talking about "Cubazuela del norte," and we're not talking about Welsh public health, which is what you're still cutting. Obviously, if they don't support it, it's precisely because they don't want to increase and increase rights and mental health care. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Mrs. Solla, I'd ask you, if you can, to remove that expression from "more speaking mind." Yes, yes, I think you can retire. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] There's another way... because I call it in order, but there's another way to say it, eh!, and you're second vice president of the Bureau of Parliament. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Please! Motion by G. P. de En Marea on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the distribution of wage income
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u81	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Lago has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u82	Good morning. I'm not going to say anything new, but inequality is a very serious problem that affects the whole of the most developed economies in the world, but that strikes the Spanish state with special virulence and therefore also us. The two indicators using Eurostat to measure inequality, the 80-20 index and the Gini index show that Spain is among the countries of the European Union which have a higher level of inequality. According to indicator 80-20, which measures the income difference between the richest 20% and the poorest 20%, Spain occupies the fifth position in inequality. I will allow myself here to give the data of the countries with which we share podium: Servia, Romania, Lithuania, Bulgaria and Spain. The Gini index points out that Spain is the state of the European Union where inequality has grown the most since 2007, far above the countries around us. The Spanish economy is the fifth of the European Union. We are among the ten countries per capita income, but we occupy the last places in inequality, and that is something we should be ashamed of. We have a huge problem, because we are already among the most unequal countries, but especially because this is where social inequalities are increasing the most. It happened with the recession, when there was a huge destruction of employment, and it continues to happen now in the high stage because of the increased precariousness of work and low-wage jobs. He said this in the previous intervention, the exit of the recession is being made on the inequality and precariousness of work, without the least self-criticism, without any willingness to rectify the policies of cuts, compulsive austerity, wage devaluation and, above all, of labour reforms that focused on rights. A recent BBVA report has no doubt confirmed that Spain is one of the countries in which inequality and poverty grew the most during the crisis, and says that the reason is that the effects of the crisis were distributed asymmetrically, bringing the highest cost on the middle and low states of income. Plus BBVA explains why. 75% of household income is labour income, and hence the level of employment and wage level are the variables that determine the processes of inequality and poverty. In particular, BBVA says that 80% of the increase in inequality is due to the increase in unemployment, wage dispersal caused by temporary employment, part-time work and false autonomy. This is a fundamental idea to understand what's going on. The first inequality arises from an unfair distribution of income between wages and profits, which is known as the "primary distribution of income", which has suffered a very negative redistribution against the waged population. That can be quantified. Before the recession, wage income was 47% of GDP in Galicia. Now, in 2016, it's 43% of GDP. This means that almost 4 points have been lost, and this explains that despite our approach to the same level of wealth as in 2017, the wages, the salary, is 2,700 million euros below what there was that year. The salary of employees falls because there are fewer jobs -- I'm going to say it again -- there are 100,000 employees less now than before the recession, but also because they're lowering wages as a result of the wage devaluation that has particularly affected those who already had a lower income level. The exit of the recession is exacerbating inequality, because the people who have already paid the highest price in the crisis continue to pay it now also in the high stage of the cycle. Wage inequality has been triggered by the crisis, as reflected in the data of the Galego Institute of Statistics when it analyses EPA's decisions. In the crisis we lost all the employees, but more than others. The loss of purchasing power of 10 percent less cobra multiplies four times as much as the ones they lost. This worst evolution increases wage inequality. If, before the recession, the income of those who made the most money multiplied seven times the income of those who earned the least, now that coefficient is eleven times. Maybe they don't know them, but I'll tell them who those people are. The 70,000 people in Dec 1 have an average salary of 429 euros gross a month. And that figure makes them directly workers and poor workers. But what is worse is that in 2008 the average wage of that decimation was EUR 509 per month, which means that in seven years they suffered a drop in their income of 16% nominal, which, when taking into account the evolution of prices, is 29%. I will say this again, that I believe there is one Member who has not listened to me: there are 70,000 people in Galicia — IGE data, Dec 1 of EPA — who have a monthly salary of EUR 429 gross, in twelve payments. This data has to cause us all a great deal of concern, but especially those who have the responsibility to rule the country, because inequality grows because of a profound deterioration in incomes from those who earn less. For you to understand well, the difference doesn't grow because the ones above cover more, too, but because the ones below get less and less. The analysis of the composition of Dec 1 makes a precise X-ray on the reasons behind poverty and wage inequality. Those 70,000 people work part-time, in sectors of low-value added services, mainly women, in their majority new people, who are employed in small private sector companies and who have a temporary contract, a lot of rotation and therefore short professional careers. The consequence of precariousness and inequality is an increase as unbearable as unacceptable as the so-called poor workers. I've already said again that, since I have little credibility as a union economist, I can only bring right-wing authors. A few days ago, the new president of the Galician Confederation of Entrepreneurs expressed -- and I'm going to read textually -- "The kind of job that comes from job reform is a failed model. We have a very high precaution and we're not able to generate quality jobs." It is the opinion of the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs, not only the opinion of the unions or of En Marea. We are therefore faced with an unfair model, where growth is not recovery, because improvement in macroeconomic variables does not move to a substantial improvement in living and working conditions of the social majority, especially those at the bottom of the social pyramid. The government can't look elsewhere and pretend it's okay. In Galician society it is forming a wide segment of poor workers and workers. Many of them are young people with a high level of education who exceed 30 years without ever knowing what an indefinite employment contract is. It's the people over 45 who have lost their job in the recession and now suffer to go back to work even if it's temporary. They're the ones who work a few months a year at the hostel in the tourist seasons or in the trade in the special sales campaigns. It's the construction workers who now rotate between unemployment and short-term peonage work. It's the 90,000 long-term unemployed who have been unemployed for more than two years. It is creating — and that never happened in the Spanish state or Galicia — a segment of poor population. We're seeing how it grows, how there are more and more people there, and many are -- you know -- people we know -- kids who have to emigrate, people who don't find work, people over 45 who are practically run out of the job market. We can't look somewhere else. And in that sense, we make a proposal, a motion, in which we made an effort to lower the tone, not to pose unacceptable demands for the government party, because we think we have to compromise on this objective. In that sense I synthesized him in 30 seconds. We propose that inequality and labour poverty be recognized as a serious problem, and that their fight must be included in the Strategic Plan of Galician Union. We plan that the agreement with social agents — employers and trade unions — should be sought in the field of the Economic and Social Council and the Galego Labour Relations Council to quantify inequality, on the one hand, to establish strategies, on the other, and to agree on a strategy for the growth of the real wages sustained in time that allows for the recovery of purchasing power. And we must work with other authorities, including the Labour Inspectorate, to combat recruitment fraud. Finally, we have a huge problem, we can't look elsewhere. It takes the broadest social and political consensus to combat what is becoming a scourge, such as inequality and labour poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u83	Thank you, Mr. Lago. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u84	He said the Economic and Business Councillor in his presence that it will be time to recognize reality and that Galicia is creating jobs and better jobs. The truth is that listening to these kinds of issues in the Galician Parliament rostrum can only scandalize. Because the reality of the labour market in Galicia is indeed of inequality. And I agree with the author of the initiative that this initiative is almost a matter of minimums, a question of putting it into action not to solve the situation but to start turning it around. There's a situation of inequality between the least won and the most won, a situation of inequality between Galicia and the middle of the state, a situation of inequality between men and women. And there's a situation in a reality of the rich richest and the poorer. These GDP growth data, macroeconomic data, of course, do not mean equitable distribution of wealth, but rather that wealth is concentrated on less hands, and that the outcome of the crisis -- that crisis that did not cause the workers and workers, a crisis that was not responsible for the working class -- if it is welding with more inequalities, an exit with a reality of poor workers and workers. The photograph, far from creating jobs and better jobs, is a photograph of a real failure, of poverty and precariousness advancing, galloping, inexorably between workers and workers after nine years of crisis; an X-ray of precarious employment, of wage cuts and of growing inequalities. After nine years of crisis it seems like a real turnaround of workers' and workers' rights and achievements over many years of blood, sweat and tears. And about data on inequalities, the proponent has already made a very broad exhibition here that practically on any item we use that is reality. But there is a particularly hard — from my point of view — and is that the gross income of people who already had wages under the minimum inter-professional wage was the ones who were the most reduced — 4% —. And on the other hand, those who increased their wages more were those who already had the highest wages. With which, that inequality, that pay gap, I think I'm still trying to deny it, minimize it, it's not a receipt. And if in 2009 14.5% of people employed in Galicia were in the group of less than half of the minimum interprofessional wage — half of the minimum interprofessional wage!; I mean, we're talking about 300 euros a month—in 2015, this percentage was almost 20%. We're talking about a situation where at least 40,000 people in Galicia who are employed earn less than 300 euros a month. Of course, we believe in the BNG that this should be the object of analysis by the People's Party and not come here to complicit audiences like we had the opportunity to observe this morning. And it's that the job poverty situation is a term that, no matter how repeated, does not stop being dramatic. Labour poverty is the one that lives people who are working under the threshold that allows them to live independently; labour poverty that is not a conjunctural phenomenon but that is becoming structural because that was the objective of labour reforms. It was the objective to have that reserve army, that army immersed in labor poverty, to have cheap, atomized and disorganized labor. And so in the BNG we support this initiative, which — I insist, and I agree with the proposal — is minimal. Because the rise in inequality and poverty can't be a problem that's found to put it on the papers and then it doesn't work to solve it. And, of course, Galicia needs something more than self-comprehensiveness and work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u86	...to solve this terrible and dramatic situation in the labour market in which thousands of men and women with names and names are immersed, who, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u88	... they deserve something more than being part of the statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u89	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u90	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Lake Peñas, it's sad enough to have to take an initiative where it's said that the Government of the Union is urging itself to recognize wage inequality and labour poverty. It is sad enough that we have to come to the Galician Parliament to tell a government that recognizes what is happening beyond this Parliament: the reality of thousands of people who are suffering from it. All this after the counsellor's appearance, who came today to tell us euphoric about macroeconomic figures. [[Applause]] You've often given a lot of data about inequality. I'm just going to point out that the percentage of people who earn less than 979 euros a month has increased during last year — I'm not putting away the beginning of the crisis — about 13.8%. Those who charge more than 3,400 euros have increased over the past year by more than 13.5%, i.e. the same percentage. What it does is to consolidate precisely a model of inequality that society is suffering out there, that reality that even — as you pointed out — is able to recognize the Confederation of Entrepreneurs itself and that this government is unable to verbalize and therefore tries to invisibility. There is therefore a clear and remarkable difference between the gross domestic product and the increase in wages. It's not directly proportional, not much less. There's an inequality that causes some to grow at vertigo speed and others to do it at vehement turtle speed, or not to do it, directly. And there's something that we've been asking for so long, and the People's Party hasn't been able to explain to us yet. And we call on the Members and Members of the People's Party. If any of you can illustrate us on this subject, we will be grateful to them forever in the Socialist Group. And it is that in Spain social security affiliations increase by 54% with respect to the decline in unemployment, and in Galicia social security affiliations decrease by 15% with regard to the decline in unemployment. So, of course, we don't understand what this difference is due to, which is not small precisely. All that happens to us is that this is the result of the formula that sums up discouragement, demography and emigration. It's the only thing that happens to us. But — I repeat — I would like to urge all Members of the People's Party to know why this case is taking place and why this is happening, please, to illustrate us. Because we don't have another way to focus on this subject anymore. With regard to the mechanisms envisaged in this initiative to improve or reduce inequality, we agree with all those proposed, both in making a report through the Economic and Social Council and, of course, in promoting an agreement with social agents, and, of course, always increasing the work of the Labour Inspection. And from the Socialist Group we do, every time we refer to this entity, a recognition to inspectors and labour inspectors, who do a great job. But in many cases the problem they have is a failure of both human and material resources, and that's precisely why they can't properly develop their function. Of course, the Administration must set an example and can't happen again such cases as those which often comment here on Mrs. Prado Cores, such as that of Nelida Pisco. It is a case of a contract that was made through the Public Administration with a company that is not only failing the agreement but rather the most basic points of the Staff Regulations itself, and which, however, continues to work for the Public Administration. With regard to the abuse of training contracts, the next motion presented by the Socialist Group will be on this subject. But it's important to take control of this issue in order to end what's already called "labourization of the labour market." Because we had to name it after this crisis — just like the poor workers — to many concepts that were born after it. There is in Galicia, since Mr. Feijóo's reign, nearly 125,000 employees less among people between the ages of 16 and 34. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what's already called saying goodbye to parents and mothers, who had rights and who worked in good conditions, to hire their sons and daughters in precarious terms. It's something that, of course, we must fight and another one of the Lacras also of inequality. In this case, an intergenerational inequality that is also in existence. Mr. Lake Peñas, we agree with you that a broad consensus, both social and political, is needed to combat inequality. I hope today will achieve a consensus with this initiative. And, of course, tell us that the Socialist Group supports him. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that it is surprising to see the disparagement with which we speak from the Socialist Party on unemployment. They talk about unemployment as if they had nothing to do with unemployment. And, man, I have to tell you that it was precisely your government, a socialist government, the PSOE government, which left 2.7 million more unemployed in Spain. And if anything creates inequality, it's unemployment, the unemployment that you created. I am therefore surprised that it has been criticized since those who created so much unemployment that we are creating jobs and those who today want more quality employment. [[Applause]] Mrs. Blanco, I think this requires more rigour than you're willing to put on the table, much more rigor. So I don't accept the criticisms of those who created so much unemployment and created so much inequality against those who are creating jobs, we want to fight inequality and we want there to be more and more quality jobs. And, therefore, Mr. Lago Peñas, it is good to you that if you accept it, we will ask you for a point vote, because we have agreed on many of the points of your initiative, practically in half. In the other half we could get into disappropriate and come to agreements on more matters, and I think that, of course, remains to the goodwill of the groups that we want to talk about. But I think we have to talk about everything, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. You know that indefinite recruitment has grown in the last year around 10%, around 10%!, indefinite recruitment here in Galicia. Yes, yes, and also full-time contracts grew by 8.7%. And you know that 2 out of every 3 employees in Galicia are undefined, with a full-time employment contract. That's the reality you don't want to talk about. You know that the gender pay gap is today the second lowest in the last decade, in the last decade! in Galicia. That's why you don't talk because it spoils your speech. Look, wage inequalities, although there are and we're worried about them, here in Galicia are smaller than in the state as a whole. They're much smaller than in Andalusia, their model. That brings to you without care. Well, not us. We want to put data on the table and we want to put data on the table. I told you, Mr. Lago, that we will support, if you accept it, different points of your initiative that we agree with. And we agree because the Galician Union has a commitment to reduce labour poverty, poverty, wage inequality. And we believe, of course, that this should be a commitment from all administrations; from the Council of Galicia, of course, and from the Government of the State, of course. And that's why there's a 2015-2020 Strategic Plan that walks in that direction. But, I mean, things aren't as black as they point out from the Socialist Party in a demagogic way and washing their hands like Pilates. Things aren't like that. It would be unfair to deny that much remains to be done, but it is also unfair to deny that there has been a lot of work done, there is a lot of work done, and that work is producing results. And there's the numbers. You've forgotten your intervention to talk about collective bargaining, which has a lot to do with the wage issue, you've forgotten. You have also forgotten the rise of the minimum interprofessional wage, approved by the Government of Spain, of 8%, a historic rise. He didn't do it his government, he didn't do it the government of the Socialist Party, he did it this government of the People's Party when economic recovery was consolidated. That's the reality, you forgot to talk about the quality employment dialogue table that put the Central Government in place according to social agents. Anyway, I say, there's a lot done, but obviously there's a lot left to do. On the other hand, at the initiative of the En Marea Group there is a point — point 5 — which speaks of social clauses in recruitment requirements. In this sense, Mr. Lago, I have to tell you that we believe that in the Law of Rationalization — Article 25.3 — it is established that you qualify as low would fear any offer you pay under the collective agreement. This is in the Rationalization Act, and I have to tell you that the predecessor group of En Marea, AGE, here voted against. Also in Law 1/2015 of 1 April 2015 on the guarantee of the quality of public services and good administration, if you include an article that says: "It will be considered serious breach that will justify the resolution of the contract the proven violation of the labour rights of workers and workers and, in particular, of parental and maternity permits, well directly through coercion. In these cases, whenever there is evidence of a crime against the rights of workers, the contracting body shall make it known to the Prosecutor's Office." To this law, I have to say that unfortunately the AGE Group voted against. And, therefore, I understand that in point 5, if we look for a different wording that recognizes the efforts in this sense of the social clauses that the Government of Galicia has made in recent years, we would be willing to reach an agreement so that we can adopt more points of this initiative that you are presenting. In point 1 you ask us to acknowledge, that the Galician Union recognises, wage inequality and labour poverty. It's not necessary, but you've already recognized it here in parliamentary headquarters by the Economic and Industry Councilman in the interrogation you did at the last plenary session. And so I think that what we're talking about here is creating jobs, and that, once we're creating jobs, that job is becoming more and more quality. There is an offer of dialogue placed on the table by the Government of Galician Union, which is to work together in making that employment law which must have all the consensus. I think it's hard to understand that the Socialist Party can participate in that law in view of the attitude of its parliamentary group when it talks about employment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u94	But I believe, Mr Lago, that you — in addition to having experience in this world and in this sector — can, if you are constructive, of course, make important approaches to this employment law. And we, of course, reiterate our willingness to reach agreements today on this initiative, in which I believe we can save many of the points of this initiative, and, of course, in that employment law, as the economic and industrial adviser offered it at the last plenary session. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u95	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u96	Good morning. First, I begin by thanking the BNG and the Socialist Party for supporting the motion. Anyway, I think it's law. We are faced with a huge problem that has to be addressed by the whole of society, from top to bottom. There are issues that depend on collective bargaining, government decisions on labour standards, minimum wage fixing. But we have to start with an idea, and it is that simply reactivating the economy is not going to be enough to combat inequality, which is a tear that is being installed, that we have to act against it before it becomes unacceptably high and that builds a social model closer or more usual in other societies than in Galicia. In that sense, what my group has introduced is a proposal to seek consensus. We have him with the Socialist Party and the BNG, and we have him partially with the People's Party. I appreciate it. We shall accept the vote by points. And we'll look even at this fifth point, social clauses, a draft on the proposal that brought us to the People's Party spokesperson, because I think we can move forward in that direction. The Administration must ensure that poverty and wage devaluation are not used to win competitions with the Administration. A few days ago, in this plenary session, I was counting on that example of surveillance and security companies — and in that sense it is going to go to negotiation — that sign collective corporate agreements, which are legal but are under the sector agreement. And that causes a problem. And since there's a lot of contracts with public administrations that have to do with cleaning, monitoring and this kind of activity, I think that could be sought. On the first point, there is also that idea, that proposal for amendment, of the People's Party. I'll suggest that instead of changing the verb "recognizance", because the party says that the Board already recognizes it, we look for an expression of the kind of "reaffirming the commitment to fight against inequality," or something like that. Finally, it is a proposal for minimums, because we have a huge problem that fully justifies consensus on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u97	Thank you, Mr. Lago. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the economic and social situation of youth and the demands to be made by the central government in the field of labour
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u98	An amendment has been tabled by the EMEA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u99	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u100	We now present a motion which is the result of the interpeleration of the previous plenary. And as a reminder, we are in the Galician Parliament. If any Member or Member of the People's Party thinks that this is Seville or that we are in the Andalusian parliament, for I remember that we are in Santiago, on the street of Horreo, and that this is the home of all the Greeks and Greeks and not of the Andalusian and the Andalusian. And, by the way, of course, so much effort to look south, so much effort to look at Andalusia... and look at that in the south they had a grave corruption niche in Murcia! Both looked at Andalusia and lost sight, lost sight or consented, until today finally the President of Murcia — who, by the way, was already hours — resigned. This was the other news we had today. [[Applause]] It was already hours. Yes, yes, but that happened in Murcia. You were ruling, we weren't ruling the socialists. Well, youth has three options in Galicia: work insecurity, unemployment or emigration. These are the three socio-laborative options that are being offered to young and young people in this country. By laying down some examples of job offers, because there are human resources companies looking for a scholarship to select staff, without pay, and eight hours a day; another one in which they look for a person who works as a community manager, without pay, for 6 hours a day, in which they deal with some tourism matters, without remuneration — in cases where they will be 24 hours and will be established according to the company. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, there's a tremendous pay gap between the boys and the elders, and there's also it between the men and the women, though Mr. Tellado tries to minimize it. And if that pay gap came down between men and women in Galicia, it's precisely because we call it a "equal to the bottom"; that is, the wages of men have fallen, therefore, wage inequality is lower as well. Well, by focusing on the subject, pockets and pockets, which is the first point of this initiative, they have no contract, they don't maintain any kind of work relationship with the company, they're out of the collective agreement, outside the Staff Regulations. And they leave their wages and their working conditions at the firm's full discretion. They don't charge unemployment benefits, most of them don't pay for Social Security, and they don't affect working life in their pension of the future. The practice of "baccarization" — already known as this at this time — has a very harmful effect on the whole social structure. It prolongs the economic dependence of these young and young people, precisely in an autonomous community like the Galician, where the rate of emancipation is the second lowest in all of Spain — just behind the Canary Islands —; it favors the brain drain, that march of talent beyond our borders, something very important because it is pushing down on the wages of employees and contract workers, and that in the autonomous community that has the third lowest wage in all of Spain; it increases the deficit to Social Security, and ultimately ends with the expectations of youth. Inside companies, workers and workers are fragmented between regulars and pockets. And the latter have no possibility of representation on business committees or any form of support from trade union organisations either. All of this has led to the creation of a phenomenon called "discharge of the labour market". And I can't give them data because there's no data. Neither SEPE nor EPA give detailed data on what is happening with this mode — and allow me, even if not, to call it recruitment. But if we have the data that Europe gives us, which says that 61% of our country's pockets and pockets don't receive any kind of remuneration, that 72% have the same workload as any other fellow or companion who is hired on a regular basis. We are therefore living a fraud of law in which the pockets end up being workers. The mechanism is simple: a company fires — as stated above — our parents and mothers — that have contracts in better conditions, that have the right to strike, maternity leave, paternity leave, medical leave... and decides to replace these people, these workers and workers, by new precariouss, who have none of these rights and who remain defenceless to what the company in which they are available. And what do we propose? I humbly tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not have the immediate solution on this initiative to a problem as complex as this one, but we do know that we can do something from this House. And the first thing we should be about is to visualize the problem that there is, to visualize these thousands of young people and girls out there who are in precarious conditions, and that it's important that you know what they're in this situation. And for that we intend to create an observatory that allows us to know the scope of the labour market's scholarship, an observatory that is made up of government members, universities, trade unions, business associations and, of course, youth associations with more representation in our autonomous community. The aim is to analyse official data, take action and, of course, make an annual report to Parliament to see how the precariousness of this market evolves. The goal is clear. For us, for socialists, a person entitled must be hired, a person performing practices must be trained. And that's the premise where we should start on this subject. Those who have a bag are -- and let me say it with all respect to them and them -- thank you poor people, so to speak. But in a country where Mr Feijóo is ruling now, where 124,635 have been lost — and they are updated data based on the unemployment data we knew today in the morning — affiliates under 34 years of age, means that we have lost 54 affiliates a day among children under 34. And it's not only a consequence of demography, it's, as I told you before, also a consequence of the discouragement and emigration of young and young gales. We therefore need to put in place a youth employment plan that is ambitious, that it is consensual with business entities, also with unions, youth organizations and, of course, with universities; that it has as a priority group those young and young people who find themselves in social exclusion, young women, people who have abandoned their studies prematurely by brick fever, those who have taken many young and young people who are now back, and we always say it, of Fuerteventura, of Lanzarote and many other places and who are unable to reintegrate into the labour market; of course, people who have functional diversity, such as one of the many priority groups, entrepreneurs and, like no, ladies and gentlemen, who reside abroad, the thousands of girls and girls who have a university degree and who are still in England, in France and in many other countries, even in the United States, leaving us empty. Based on this, the plan would have to be presented during 2017. We must also take advantage of the resources offered by the European Union itself. I would like to remind you that in the Youth Guarantee Plan the execution is 5 of 39 million euros, which has so far been executed by the Government of Greece. In addition to taking advantage of them, we have to improve this Youth Guarantee Plan, we have to put on tools that improve the performances that are contained in it. This plan can't be a tailor's drawer, it can't be the perfect excuse to create precarious workers and workers. It can't be to give them bread for today and hungry for tomorrow many boys and girls. Of course, vocational training must be promoted and something that we consider important: linking any economic incentive to the maintenance of employment. The Administration cannot be providing grants for recruitment that do not guarantee stability in employment, that seems to us to be the basic socialists. And we put this initiative on the government of Spain, too. We have always included, and we will continue to do so, the derogation from labour reform in all employment initiatives — today it would not be less — and also the development of a new status of workers with a strict definition of the condition of a purse, where the linkage to training programmes without replacing jobs and ensuring social security contributions is clear for the first time to the socialist government in something which I have assumed a fundamental milestone for the work environment. Increase resources for active employment policies. We're still looking forward to seeing the budgets, we don't know if they'll be surprised at this. We still ask for the 2011 levels to be recovered, that is, from when Mr. Rajoy arrived to the Government of Spain. In the context of social dialogue, analyze the different aspects of the contract for training that led to precariousness. Of course, intensifying the work inspectorate's campaigns to monitor learning and training contracts. This seems fundamental to us because we remember that this is a practice that is a fraud of law and that is, of course, disposing of our labour market and is creating, as we said in the previous initiative, more inequality in our country. And nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u102	Thank you. Good morning. Mrs. Blanco, we fully agree with the necessity and urgency of this motion, so our support is already in advance. We have agreed absolutely, and the reasons set them out during this plenary session are that other branch of En Marea here, Manolo Lago, this tremendously negative evolution of the Greek economy in the last ten years and that consolidation of a poverty sector in our society, a sector that in young people is even more serious. And for many "welcome boxes" that give you plenty of quimbalade in hospitals where we have a child or a daughter under the age of 35 won't solve the demographic decline. And the lack of employment, the low quality of employment, the lack of a future perspective, is what lies at the root of these issues. And going to the specific data of youth, we can continue to abound in this brutal destruction of employment in Galicia which Mr Lago has already exposed to in previous interventions, but we are going to realize in youth. According to the 2016 labour market report by the Interunion Confederation of Galicia, the population aged 16 to 24 has risen from 8.5% in 2009 to 4.7 % in 2016. If we count between 25 and 34, there was also a decrease from 27.3% to 19.5%. The data is tremendous. And if we talk about wages, we continue to talk about precariousness and poverty at work, especially in young people, because if that Greek wage is the lowest in the state — if you have given the data here, today the truth is that we have a lot of economic data, and it is important that we need to talk about that social reality that doesn't happen because the recession was supposed to pass – because, well, if the Greek wages are low, the wages among people under 35 years of age have remained stagnant at pre-crisis levels. And if 30.7 percent of people with wages in our country don't get the minimum interprofessional salary, among young people what we have is that the average wage of a person who works between 56 and 65 years of age multiplied by 7.6 times that of a person under 18; when in 2009 there was a difference, yes, there was a crack, but it was 6 times, not 7.6 times. We're increasing the different cracks, also the pay gap. They always boast about comparison with the rest of the state, they boast about low data, because the truth is it's increased slightly, but it's increased during the crisis. He did little, he increased less than before, because, as Mrs. Blanco explained to them, men's wages have also been lowered. Finally, that we are in a framework in which it is evident that it is a fundamental right to pay equal work without discrimination on the basis of age or sex, but in practice we are allowing that wage gap between men and women and that gap between older and younger people. And the reason for this discrimination, in the case of young people, is not the lack of professional experience, since it is contemplated in other concepts, such as antiquity and free will permits. The only reason, as the rapporteur of this motion has already pointed out, is the over-exploitation of the young labour force. That "discharge" of the labour market has a lot to do with this. We therefore agree with the urgent need to establish policies that reverse this situation. We not only need employment plans, but also other types of policies, such as industrial plans, to support the primary sectors. From there comes the sense of some of our amendments and our initiatives in Parliament. And we also need to do it not only for our youth now, but for that future, because precarious work is carried on for life. So, with the cuts, with the policies that have been carried out, we not only consolidate the figure of the poorer workers and the poorer workers in the state, but also the future generation of the poorest retirees and retirees in the whole state. We therefore support your motion, Mrs. Blanco. I assure you that I amend them in an exercise of responsibility, to try to see that it can be improved. But of course we're going to back her up and trade her. I'm going to explain them briefly, and I'm saying that sometimes she feels a little frustrated, because here it seems like only initiatives should be brought as minimal as possible. We sometimes do this exercise — Mr Lago has done today, and I myself in another initiative on wage inequality — to try to lower the minimums to see whether it is approved. I hope this is also the fruit of a consensus. I wish you luck in that negotiation with the rest of the groups. Finally, it doesn't take me any time to explain our amendments, but I do, in that we have to open the debate about subsidising the recruitment of young people with little or no training in employment. I think the evolution of these years shows no. But we appreciate your point 3, where you propose serious measures to improve this type of contract. And then we add that question of the need for an industrial plan for Galicia and specifically support the youth of rural and fisheries.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u103	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u104	Good afternoon again. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I was saying in his speech Mr. Tellado a moment ago that the data is all fantastic. And he was talking about the pay gap between men and women in Galicia dropped a lot. He was super content, very cheerful and festive. Of course, what you forgot to say is that you didn't reduce the wage gap between men and women in Galicia because you've raised women's incomes and you've got more qualified jobs and better wages, but because you've dropped men's wages alarmingly. So, to match below, of course, is not the wage model or the work model of the Galician Nationalist Block. It seems obvious that the People's Party is. The People's Party wants everyone to go down and end the pay gap. Of course, it would be good, since they boast of data, they would give them all. [[Applause]] And at the BNG we don't accept and we don't resign ourselves to the fact that the departure of young men and young gales and gales is to accept any work, whatever their wages, in whatever hour they may be and whatever time they may be; and, in addition to all this, with the rights they play, or without rights. Of course, this is not the salary model of the BNG, and of course we do not accept it in this way, with resignation, as if it were a biblical curse that fell from the sky and was not a consequence of the policies they put in place and the legislative measures and all the instruments they put in the employer's tray for this labour market to exist. Of course, that Galician boys and girls only have temporary and poorly paid job offers isn't our choice to defend in the Galician Nationalist Block, young people and qualified girls, with training, many and many of them with university training, aimed at precariousness or emigration. And this is an individual drama, of course, because this situation doesn't create but what frustration, this situation doesn't allow them to have a project of life, this situation doesn't allow them to be emancipated, and it's a collective drama because an important part of these young and young have only as a way out of emigration. And it's a collective drama for Galicia because of the loss of resources invested in the formation of these thousands of young people and girls, and also, essentially, because of the loss of human capital, which is essential for Galicia to have viability and the future. And that all these young men and girls go out and then develop life projects there and that all their potential, their knowledge, to revert to improvements in other territories is, of course, a drama for our country. The population between 16 and 24 years of age has risen from 8.5% in Galicia in 2009 to 4.7% — at the working level. It's a real drama. And the population between 25 and 34 years went from 27.3% in 2009 to 19.5% — it's speaking in labor terms, of course — to 19.5%. And this can only have a qualification, and the qualification is drama. People under 35 together lost more than 11.3 points in absolute terms. They are almost 146.000 young people and girls less in the Galician labour market between 2009 and 2016. It seems to us that this is a shrinking data and that in that same period this drop in employment, of course, as I said before, has to be worth something more than for statistics to be given. What does that mean? That virtually all the jobs that have been lost in this period were under 34 years of age. That, of course, shows a photograph of the country, of the Galician labour market, that doesn't deal with simple propaganda methods. BNG and I are very sorry that we've gone from having girls and girls so badly prepared to have girls and girls emigrants so well prepared. The youth employment plans of the Galician Union and the State Government are a smokescreen. All they do is subsidise companies that hire young people in precarious and temporary ways. These are plans where the European Union and the Spanish State determine where, how and how those plans should be developed without taking into account Galician reality, without taking into account what niches need to be boosted by youth employment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u106	And in this context young people and girls cannot be emancipated, they can't develop life projects that are minimally dignified, with which Galicia loses the best and potential for the future and also for the present. With which, as I told you in the previous plenary, where the Socialist Party also brought a motion because very long, with many parts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u108	...—some of us agree, in others not so much—we continue to say that they are called attention to those we agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. A new time, a new time, Mrs. Prado, but the old ways of always, the old slogans of always, whether true or not. You don't accept a single positive data, because the worse the better. That's the speech, Mrs. Prado. The pay gap between men and women is the lowest in the last decade, hardly despite the Nationalist Block of Galicia and you. [[Applause]] Mrs. Blanco was worried about the general budgets of the State of 2017 and the investment in Galicia. And I have to tell you that we are the second autonomous community in per capita investment, the second autonomous community in per capita investment. We're going to receive 11% of the total investment and represent 6% of the population across the country. You stay perfectly calm. Mrs. Blanco, I will confess to you that I am fascinated by your proposal. To solve the problem of youth unemployment, you propose two transcendental measures. First, to create an observatory that makes a couple of reports, that's your proposal. I don't blame her, seeing their reaction to employment in the last socialist governments, both in the state and in the Galician Union, it's normal to think that there was never anyone who observed the situation on the part of the Socialist Party and no one who made a hidden report that served as a road map. On the contrary, all you had were people who made slogans: the "champions leage of the economy", the "social exit of the crisis", the "economics in the afternoons"... well, and after the observatory, its second proposal is also very original: back to 2011. That's your proposal, and here you'll allow me to name Zapatero, since you've spoken precisely of him. Look, you guys did a job reform. It was so good that the job reform continued to be destroyed, no less than 600,000 jobs in the last year of Zapatero's government, the one that supported the Nationalist Block in Wales and the one that Mr. Pablo Iglesias said he was the best president in Spain's history, that one; 600,000 jobs destroyed with his job reform. Then the People's Party did another job reform, which currently causes 500,000 jobs to be created each year. But as the People's Party did, it's very bad. His job was better. Shall we go back to 2011? No, Mrs. Blanco, don't count on us for that. Look, about the emigration of young people I want to make a reflection that serves the whole opposition. The left comes to this House or to the Congress of Deputies with a bitter litany of complaints to the People's Party about the phenomenon of our young people's emigration. I just want to ask you which countries migrate the young people of Greece, those who know you, the ones who talk. Where do they emigrate? And after thinking about which countries they emigrate, you ask yourself: will some of the left-wing MEPs bring here a proposal to make our work system look like some of these countries or do they expect their failed recipes to bring us the unexpected success of magic? What's your model? Ladies and gentlemen of the PSdEG, but also of the BNG, also of the Tides of Podemos, you have serious problems with speech on employment. You want to have the wages of Switzerland, but they're proposing to us the employment legislation of Greece. You want to have the youth unemployment rate in Germany, but they're offering us the economic model of Andalusia. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, some people come here to tell us that their example is Denmark, but as soon as it scratches a little, it turns out that the example really is Venezuela. That's the reality. So much so that someone we all know has left Galicia since the Tides, has gone to Denmark, and has returned and landed. You look at his model. [[Applause]] Look, in the Youth Guarantee Programme the execution of Galicia is above the average of Spain. We are the seventh community with a higher execution. And now, Mrs. Blanco, youth unemployment rates. I know you don't like it when it comes to Andalusia, you're not the "PSOE winner," it's the "PSOE of them not," but it doesn't matter. Look, youth unemployment rate: Galicia, 36.6 in the fourth quarter of 2016; Spain, 42.9; Andalusia —with its model of the winning PSOE, its model, 57.8; Extreme 52, Castle-A Mancha 50.8. But who do you want us to copy, what observatory do you want us to do, what observatory? We're talking about you guys, they don't like us talking about... No, no, in Murcia... we know that Mr. Losada is a judge now too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada opens his shoe and becomes a judge and comes here to teach us lessons. Mr. Losada, Andalusia, youth unemployment rate, 57...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u111	No, don't go to anyone and end up, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u112	But if Mr. Losada wants us to talk to him about Galicia, look, the Bipartite found a 15-point youth unemployment rate in 2005, and doubled the rate in four years: 30 points in 2009. That's your inheritance, which we're not going to copy. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Blanco, it's true that today's kids don't have as easy as you and your generation find a job, they don't have it that easy, but don't tell the boys that there's no future in Galicia, because it's just not true. And that speech we won't accept. Look, the Government of Greece is committed to youth employment and therefore dedicates this year EUR 40 million to recruitment, training and entrepreneurship policies. In the last legislation we spent 150 million euros on active employment policies for the most young.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u114	33,000 boys benefited each year. You come here today to propose an observatory and two studies. I'm telling you that the studies do them at the PSOE, because the winning PSOE, of course, here at least a youth unemployment rate of twice as much as in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u115	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica from the motion's author group, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, I don't know if Mr. Losada has to tighten his shoe, but you have to loosen his tie a little bit, because I see him intense, I see him worried about Andalusia, I really see him intense today. But, first of all, I would like to thank what En Marea's voice calls the exercise of responsibility, and I think that is precisely how it is to make amendments, make proposals to improve other initiatives and try to reach agreements. We will accept all except for 1, 3, 3.4 and B.3, i.e. those concerning the creation of a youth employment observatory and not focused on what we considered to be the central axis of this initiative, which was an observatory of scholarship. Thank you, Mrs. Prado Cores, too, for your flexibility in trying to reach an agreement today. And I know they don't resign, like the Socialist Group, and unlike what this government is doing. Look, Mr. Tellado, I usually come here with data, and it's official data. See, the employment rate — and I am not the Socialist Group — between ages 16 and 29 years, in the third quarter of 2009, and 49.3%; in the third quarter of 2016, 38.7%. Unemployment rate in the third trimester of 2009, 22.6%; third trimester of 2016, 27.9%. It's data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, not from the Galego Institute of Fantasy, which is what you're used to. It's real data, Mr. Tellado, it's real data. And look, I don't understand what comes out of the proposals from the rest of the groups, and more when you don't bring any. You have to excuse me, Mr. Tellado, but I'm still looking forward to seeing a People's Party job initiative to make those young girls out there. [[Applause]] And neither does the Socialist Group say so, nor does the honourable Member say so, the data from the Observatory itself of the Council of Economics and Employment, which says that, of every young man entitled to return to Galicia, two march, Mr Tellado. Take a look around France, Germany, England and many other European Union countries. And, look, from our models, of course, I can tell you that the Socialist Party model is not Murcia's model. That's what I can tell you, Mr. Tellado, it's not Murcia's model. Today you are very worried because the headline goes to Andalusia and is in the south, but it's in the south. The headline...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u117	Quiet, Mr. Tellado. Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u118	...today it's in the south, Mr. Tellado, it's on the other side. You're very worried, and I really understand it. Look, our proposals aren't the ones in some countries where you're sending new people. Those are yours, Mr. Tellado, those of the German mini-jobs. Those are the same proposals you're putting in place here. If those are the proposals of what you call the Winning People's Party, and that's the populace of the People's Party, to go the right way, of course they're not the Socialist Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Losada, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u120	It seems that by allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u121	Quiet, quiet! Quiet, please! Let's see if every time you name a deputy... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me a moment, I'm talking... excuse me a second. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is that the allusion already made, then? If you won't let me talk to you... If every time a Member is appointed, he will consider it an allusion... that's not what the Rules of Procedure say. The Rules of Procedure say...: Sorry, the Rules of Procedure I interpret, and I know how to interpret, and consider that there is an allusion to a judgment of value or a personalist allusion. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u122	Please, it seems to me something... you said it, it seems to me not offensive, not offensive. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I'm sorry, it doesn't seem offensive to me. I can appreciate what's offensive and what's not offensive. So I don't think that's an allusion. Mr. Losada, I won't give you the floor. Sorry, but no, I don't think it's an offense. It's part of the political debate and then I won't give you the floor. And this is going to be a bit of a rule. Yes, the general rule, stop here and there. [[Protests.]] No, no, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Leiceaga didn't ask for the word. Let's vote. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u123	We voted on the motion by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Ms Eva Solla, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of mental health. He said he accepted the amendment. We therefore vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of mental health. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u124	We are now voting on the motion by the En Marea Parliamentary Group on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the distribution of wage income. A point vote was requested and there were pending transactions over two points. If you don't explain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u125	Yes, we accept the point vote and there are two changes in the text. Point 4 replaces "start" with "pulse". And point 5 is replaced by this wording: "The Galician Board shall include in all tenders where possible social clauses guaranteeing the conditions of pay laid down by the application agreement, collecting in the prayers, for the purposes provided for in Article 152 of the TRLCSP, which shall be considered disproportionate or abnormally those offers involving wages below those resulting from the application of the collective agreement of the reference sector."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u126	Then we can group them. The motion has six points. Can we group the points?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u127	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u128	Tell me which one we can group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u129	Except the first, the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u130	Or the rest? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's agree on what points. Three, four, five and six will be accepted. So, if you like, we vote points 3, 4, 5 and 6. We vote. Vote of points 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the transactioned text of the G.P. Motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr Manuel Lago Peñas, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the distribution of wage income. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. These points of the motion's compromise text are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u131	We now vote on points 1 and 2, which are the remaining ones of this motion. We vote. Vote for points 1 and 2 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr Manuel Lago Peñas, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the distribution of wage income. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected from the text of this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u132	We voted for the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Noela Blanco. You have already stated the points you accepted from the amendment. We therefore voted for it with the points which the rapporteur expressed she accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the economic and social situation of youth, and the demands to be made by the central government in labour matters. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u133	We suspended the session until 4:00 p.m., I'd say. Well, I don't care, uh, it's not my problem. [[Murmurs.]] Four and a half? I don't care. I don't have a problem. [[Murmurs.]] Four and a half? No, no, I'm asking all the groups, and I'm taking into account... it's a matter of how long we have today. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Four and a quarter? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u134	We reconvene the session, with non-legislation proposals, fourth point on the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the launching by the Government of Galicia of the mechanisms necessary to give consensus to the political forces the position that Galicia will defend in the General Commission of the Autonomous Communities of the Senate in relation to the Covenant on Social and Political Status for Education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u135	This proposal has been tabled with an amendment by the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u136	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Despite the commitment of time and the, I understand, of the quorum that exists in the House — although we are slowly incorporating ourselves — I will try to urge the support of the other three parliamentary groups to try to reach an agreement so that the Autonomous Community of Galicia, through the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, can defend an evaluated position with as much consensus as possible within the different sensibilities that exist in this autonomous community with regard to education. As we all know, the Spanish educational system, as defined in the LOXSE — the organic law on general management of the education system — and despite the successive changes that have been made through other educational laws, has some essential characteristics which together distinguish it clearly from other European educational systems as well as from other countries. These fundamentally differentiated characteristics are, firstly, a widely decentralized system — in fact, the 17 autonomous communities have the capacity to sort out different essential aspects of the system — with a coordinating body, which is the Sectoral Conference on Education. Secondly, it is — whether we like it or not — more to some, less to others — of a mixed system, i.e. the coexistence of public ownership centres and private ownership. It is a graduated education system, based on the age of students, with a limited number of repetitions per stage. It's a system with a multilevel curriculum model, i.e. an open and flexible curriculum design and a adapted curriculum development model based on center autonomy. It is a system based on a model of comprehensive schooling; that is, all students up to the age of 16 share a common culture in the same type of school, and governed by the principle of inclusiveness; that is, all students — except duly justified and exceptional cases — are enrolled in ordinary schools. And finally, it's a system that empowers educational centers and forces them to manage essential educational processes through their educational projects at the center. The content of these characteristics that I have just mentioned, you can say that our state's educational system is a complex system in which educational agents have a wide margin of freedom to make their decisions and, consequently, a high degree of co-responsibility — not as responsibility — solely in more than one area. Or, in other words, in a mutually conditional relationship between the different decision-making bodies, it is not mechanical, it is based on the ability to communicate between each of them and the determined will of understanding. And this is not a minor issue, because it is the basis on which this non-law proposal is based that we are going to debate in this House today. That is to say, it is not an automatic matter, but it requires a determined will of coordination and loyalty between all the parties involved in the educational process. It's true that the decentralization of educational systems can have some advantages over the adaptation that the educational response gives to the conditions and characteristics of educational institutions and their students, but it's also no less true that it exposes a great difficulty, and that difficulty is to achieve the sufficient consensus so that the education system, despite its differences, functions as an educational system and achieves the goals for which it has been designed. The autonomous communities today, both competently and financially, assume an essential part of public action in the Spanish State. They do so from their own legitimate political options — no one questions it — but with consequences for all citizens. In other words, one thing is the representativeness that exists in the different autonomous chambers of the different sensibilities and political forces and another is that the decisions taken there — and here they are — affect the whole of educational communities. And that's why we have to demand that communities and the state itself be characterized by loyalty and mutual responsibility. Social and equality policies are likely to constitute the scope of public action where the highest level of interrelationship takes place among the three governmental bodies in our country: State administration, autonomous administrations and local administrations. And this characteristic must we understand that it represents a strength of the system itself, because competences come down to the level of government that can most effectively manage them, which has generated — and generated — very important benefits in terms of proximity and quality. For the system to work properly, we need full collaboration between those three levels that it referred to earlier. And the public authorities have — and we have, as far as we are concerned — the obligation to ensure the effective exercise of rights and to do so effectively using public resources to defend democratic values and equal opportunities. And to take forward the set of initiatives that will enable us to build an educational system that will make it possible to successfully overcome the challenges that it exposes to us in the 21st century it is necessary to invest more and more in education. And in that sense, we believe that policies and actions that are carried out in the various legislative developments from the public sector, institutions and governments are fundamental to achieving a model of a fair, solidarity, equality of opportunity and active action in the fight against social exclusion. And in that sense — like all of us here — we know that at the Conference of Presidents of Autonomous Communities that took place in Madrid on January 17 this year, among other things, we agreed to entrust the Government of Spain with the request for the convening of the General Committee of Autonomous Communities in the Senate to hold a monographic debate on education, incorporating that debate — and according to what I said earlier — the diagnosis and the approximation of it to the work of that subcommittee for the Social and Educational Status Pact and for education and thus seeking the maximum coordination among all those involved. What we are proposing today to this House is that the Government of the Autonomous Community activates the appropriate mechanisms to ensure that Galicia's position is defended and understood within that conference. And we are aware that this meeting that took place last month at the Senate on 27th, in which the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport and also attended the advisers and advisers of the various autonomous governments, is only the beginning of that pact and that contribution that must be made from the autonomous communities. Because, frankly, I understand that all of us here would not be able to come to believe that in a three-hour meeting where the Minister of Education, Culture and Sport speaks and speak to the advisers and advisers of the seventeen autonomous communities — he recommends: I am speaking of three hours — if he is able to transfer the different sensibilities that exist with regard to that social and educational pact to which we must be able to arrive between all political forces, social representatives, trade union representatives and civil society in general to define what we consider to be a stable model of our educational system that respects — like! — all the singularities and differences that each of the autonomous communities has, but that it will distort our educational and armoured system from a structural point of view — which is almost the least, but it is very important — and above all financial, our educational system, so as to ensure that the educational system, regardless of whom they govern in the state and in each autonomous community, we have the resources we need. And when I say among all of them, I believe that I am calling all political forces to reach a minimum agreement to guarantee that necessary stability. Because they believe me — and now I make almost a personal assessment — that in the educational system we are full of so much change, so much uncertainty and so much change depending on who governs in the Spanish state and in each of the autonomous communities. And that is why I think it is the responsibility of all of us here to support this initiative, which, I insist, has no other will but to call for a unanimous agreement to be agreed among all of us on what we want to move to that future social and educational pact at the state level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u138	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u139	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, John William Cooke said that the political pacts between opposing factions are always of bad faith, even if they are convenient. We don't want to be so pessimistic, but if you have it in mind, as a kind of warning to look carefully at the tunes of mermaids that talk about the education pact lately. We have been listening for months to talk about the pact — if not years — appealing to the responsibility of the parties, as if teaching was not a fundamental political battle horse to stop and reverse the neoliberal offensive, as if in teaching we were not playing something as important as the model of society we want. And to the surprise of the Members and Members of the People's Party, we are here to make politics, we have been voted on for it — if others have voted for something else. They voted for us to talk about the pact, or they didn't vote for it. Because nobody gets away that the People's Party wants to talk about the education pact now that you've lost the absolute majority. Little did they want to talk about the pact when today the former minister retired in Paris brought forward a law that only achieved was the unanimous rejection of the entire educational community. That's why we're skeptical about the education pact. Because while we're talking about the education pact as a kind of smoke curtain, LOMCE is still being applied, except at the end of the revals, which are gradually lowered in content. But the segregation of students by sex remains, the matter of religion in the classroom remains, and the mercantillization of the teaching system also remains. That's why, and because the lordships of the People's Party and the lords of the Socialist Party in the General Courts, along with the companions always needed of the orange mule, when they talk about the education pact, it has very little to do with what society understands by the education pact and, of course, it has very little to do with what we defend, for two reasons: one, with regard to the very contents of that pact and the other, with regard to the parties involved and called to deal with. As far as content is concerned — as was said here — was approved at Congress on 1 December 2016 the creation of a subcommittee for the development of a pact that was based on a new educational law. And I quote from the text: "to meet the European educational objectives collected in the European Union's 2020 strategy for education and training". This mention is not innocent, but it involves the process of mercantilization of public education that we have rejected from En Marea; a strategy that conceives education as one more piece of the productive process, face B of the precariousness that workers and workers in this country submit to. They speak of the creation of human capital, of competitiveness and not of the full development of personality in respect of democratic principles and of coexistence, fundamental rights and freedoms; a statement that today almost seems revolutionary but — oh, surprise! — was in the Constitution, in article 27.2. From En Marea we believe that any pact that is intended for education must necessarily have three fundamental premises: the first is the immediate derogation from LOMCE and all regulatory provisions for implementation. It is urgent to put this law down and reverse the privatization, elitist and segregation path of it. The education pact can't be that smoke curtain so we can wake up and continue to apply the most perverse consequences of this law. Secondly, to reach an agreement that budgetaryly blinds expenditure in education. We've already said it in the budget debate: we have to change the cost ceiling perspective through the income floor. That's why we propose to set 7% of GDP as a minimum percentage of investment in education at the end of this legislation. That would indeed be a real 2020 target of European convergence. And thirdly, to articulate the mechanisms necessary for the entire educational community to participate in the debate and drafting of the new law. We don't want a pact and a new law of order, as we've already had many; we don't want pacts and laws that when they apply to reality fail sharply because they've turned their backs on the educational community. We're in agreement with a parliamentary political pact, you have to go further. That is why we are presenting the amendments to the Socialist Party's proposal, in order to be able to make real progress towards a social and citizen alliance that guarantees public, secular, inclusive, comprehensive education that promotes equity and co-education — which now seems to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party no longer like — democratic, recognition of the multinational reality of the state and budgeted. To secure those points, on our side, the agreement will be possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the Galician Socialist Party, speak to your colleagues in Madrid and tell them not to continue giving air to the State Government in its educational counter-reform. As Martin Luther King said, murdered today forty-nine years ago, it's always the right time to do the right thing, and this would be the ideal time to put a stop to the neoliberal offensive that counts with teaching to make it effective. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u141	Good afternoon to all and to all. It goes on to say that since the Galego Nationalist Block we will support this non-law proposal, because to a large extent we agree with the spirit of it, with the spirit, in addition, that inspires it, and we defend — and it is not the least doubt — the need to move it in the context of these negotiations and the dialogue initiated towards a social and political pact for education in the Spanish State. We defend that the German Government gives a transfer to a voice of country, a voice that represents the whole of Galicia, also taking into account its vast diversity, which is what enriches us as well. And we understand — and we have said it on many occasions — that this social and political pact to which it can be reached must be based on the derogation from LOMCE. We are, in that sense, absolutely in agreement and in no way conceived a simple makeup that can maintain the basic foundations that made it agromary, and that must be, from our point of view, removed. In this sense, the new framework must make it clear — we also understand it from the Galego Nationalist Block — that the bulk of the competences in education correspond to the different territories, and in the event that it welcomes us here, the Greek Government. More, it is true, in the Greek case, that other realities that are now inserted into the Spanish State, because we have a language and a culture of our own, in addition to a populational, demographic, economic and, above all, orographical reality, that identify us as a people and therefore also require an endogenous perspective when developing and deploying fundamental public services, as is teaching in this case. And we have, moreover, denounced in this House, not on rare occasions, the consequences that caused precisely the explosive combination between LOMCE and another legislation, in this case itself, supported by the People's Party in Galicia, as was the decree, and which subjected the reduction of the teaching hours of the Greek language in the ESO and in the Bachelorate, under, even, the third that contemplated the legislation itself approved by the People's Party. We continue to insist, we will never miss the opportunity to demand the derogation from that decree of multilingualism, which was, in addition, praised by the branch councillor, by Mr. Rodríguez, at the last meeting to which the spokesman of the Socialist Party referred, when they were able to find with the minister of education the different heads of education of the territories. If it is true that there is such a will on the part of the People's Party, as we are told in recent weeks, to search for spaces and develop language normalization policies in our language, we must derogate this tool, which has been so hurtful to the language of this country. The political position — a little about what it has to do with the social and political pact on education — that keeps the BNG historical and traditionally I think it is clear. We are committed, we will continue to defend and defend the elaboration in a manner participating here in the Galician Parliament of an Education Law, not because of ideology, as if we intend to caricature ourselves normally, but because even within — we have also said many times — of the narrow framework of competence that we have, not only Galicia can, but because Galicia must shield a teaching inserted into our social reality, into our cultural reality, into our economic reality, linguistic reality and, above all, demographics, laying the foundations — as we have so often defended — of a public education, universal, scientific, non-discriminatory and, in that sense, of course, that it does not cover with public money the separation of students by sex, which is nothing but to defend and protect from public institutions the Franco-Christian education, a patriarchal teaching and religious fanaticism. A teaching — what we stand for — that meets the political reality of this country. This isn't Andalusia, even though it seems to us that we move to the other territory, nor is it Murcia, nor is it Canary Islands. And, therefore, any agreement that is adopted in the educational framework must always take into account the rural population, with which we have also had the opportunity to speak to the people we are going to speak in this plenary today about this initiative; we were able to speak this weekend and hear directly, in addition to the agents, what is the opinion that they deserve from the current legislative framework. Finally — and with this I have already concluded — we will support this non-law proposal. It seems to us, moreover, that the amendment of En Marea completes the proposal, opening the dialogue to the whole educational community. It is also true that it is already profiling the position that should emerge from that dialogue process, if it finally consists, but if we wanted to remember what position it has traditionally maintained or historically since the LOMCE draft was known precisely that educational community. I believe that I made it absolutely clear by the Galician School Council, back in 2015, when, at the end of the adoption and drafting of the high school and bachelor's decree, he passed an amendment to the whole, which was through that amendment to the whole as they showed their explicit rejection of LOMCE. So the Board accused these agents and also the set of the opposition forces of having a non-dialogue attitude, but the fact is -- and we'll see what happens now -- what we've seen in recent years by the Education Council is that what you don't really want to hear. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u143	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs. Chao, first of all, I just don't want to get into controversy, but tell you a question. We in your group assume you have the same will of covenant as we can have, regardless of whether with your more or less crude words you answer a completely different question; you understand that you prefer to discredit instead of looking for meeting spaces. But I say, we assume, at least, the same intention of achieving a pact that this group has. [[Applause]] As has already been pointed out and as many of those before me have been said, the General Commission of the Autonomous Communities of the Senate has already held this monographic session on education and the social and political state pact for education on 27 March. By the way, at this very plenary session, in the Galician Parliament, in particular tomorrow, at the point of questions to the Government, the Welsh House will first-hand know the position it has defended in the Senate, since the councillor will come to answer a question which we will raise from this particular group. Regardless of this, as you know, in recent days we have had the opportunity to get to know some of the aspects of the position that the adviser defended before the General Commission of the Autonomous Communities of the Senate. He made a series of approaches to establishing a stable educational system, which advocates promoting the continuing education of the student in the system, betting on inclusion, integration and equality; lines of action that, in the case of Galicia, have shown, in addition, its effectiveness, as it reveals — and we have already talked about in this House — the latest data in the PISA report or, for example, of early dropout data. We understand that the foundations of an agreement should contemplate the flexibility of itineraries or flexible curricula for students with greater educational needs or complex socio-family situations. We understand that we must also ensure that no student or student of educational institutions leaves until the age of 18 years. We must also encourage those who are entitled to compulsory basic training to the 100% ideal. But, in addition, Galicia can also come up with its experience in this debate for the setting up of this national pact for education, in key areas such as new technologies, multilingual teaching — despite Mrs Rodil's view of the opposite —, vocational training or also the improvement and adaptation of the Greek university system to the socio-economic reality of the territory. We understand that these are starting positions that we could share all groups of this House. Now, as you all know, there are currently several forums in which we are working on the achievement of this social and political state pact for education. First of all, we have a subcommittee in the Congress of Deputies, in which a large number of relevant agents from the educational community are appearing, and it is requested to draw up, precisely, a background document for this pact, which, in addition to having a date, has a chronology: it had since the Commission's birth a six-month period. We are also working on the General Committee of the Autonomous Communities of the Senate, in which last March 27th, as we spoke before, came together the various advisers and education advisers of the autonomous communities, bringing their positions on the future social and political pact for education. But it is true that, in addition, in this House, in the Senate, in which there is a Greek representation, through the various senators of the different groups, on this very day 27, once this audience has been finished, it has been approved, at the People's Group's bodies — and it is worth stressing — the creation of a presentation that also deals with the education pact, a presentation that should address the needs and different sensibilities of the autonomous communities. In addition, some autonomous representatives asked the Ministry, too, to set up a working group within the Education Sector Conference, composed of representatives of the Government and representatives of the autonomous communities, which would work in parallel with the two forums that have already been created in Congress and the Senate, and a request that was accepted by the Minister, and on which it was agreed that it was the General Commission of the Education Sector Conference, a technical body, who determined the most viable and useful way to incarnate autonomy within a political process that is already in progress and to see how they can contribute to the pact. But it does not end here the account of the forums in which we are working on this social and political pact, since we have also requested the establishment of another working group in which the educational community, in the midst of the autonomous school councils, will be preparing other documents that fit and respond to their needs; a work that would, of course, be added to the work of the State School Council itself, which means that we can find ourselves with a document approved by this state body and 17 more of each of the autonomous school councils. With all this in mind, perhaps it is time to clearly define the procedure to be followed, since an unlimited succession of debate organs could complicate and hinder the process of drawing up the covenant to unsuspected limits, and torturing the work. Let me bring Ockham's Guillermo here, when he said, formulating his principle of economics: "I'm not multiplying unless they need me"; that is, we shouldn't multiply the souls without need. In all this, from the People's Group, we believe that we are at the time of clearly determining the degree and the formulas of participation of autonomous communities in the procedure, and it does not seem that this is the time to define a static and unique position of Galicia in the process, but we are at a dynamic stage of the procedure, of drawing up the pact, in which even changes are taking place in the organization of work and in which different voices are intervening that can help bring different perspectives to this stage of the debate. So, and before we finish, we understand that it is not time to limit voices or fix positions, but rather that it should stand for further the opportunity or not to define a unique position of Galicia and this House if the interests of the Autonomous Community were to be attacked. We will follow closely the evolution of this whole process and have no doubt that this group will be up to what the circumstances demand. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u144	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. I was saying that I came earlier because I was left half a minute longer, but, well, I understand that the regulation is the regulation. Mrs. Chao, the bad hypothesis for politics that you mentioned that if the agreements between political forces are not related, they are of bad faith; bad hypothesis for political practice, but, in any case, there you are. I agree with you in one thing you said. Of course, the People's Party now agrees because it doesn't have an absolute majority; otherwise, it didn't. That's obvious, too. But look, you'll allow me, with all due respect, to tell you something. It is also dangerous — and I often quote the People's Party, but I will also quote you at this moment — to assume that what society demands is what a particular political group requires, whether you or me, whether we are the People's Party. So diversity is diversity. And, of all the things that you mentioned, in the derogation from LOMCE of course we agree, it's obvious, but the derogation from LOMCE has to be a regulated and controlled derogation, you cannot leave the country or the state without an educational system. The budget slipper. I've already quoted her in my speech. And, with regard to participation, hey!, look, it is in this subcommittee that all those involved in the educational field, in the educational world, the political parties obviously, but also the associations of parents, teachers, associations of public as well as concerted centers, professional teams of directors, etc. Everyone has their time for participation. And, therefore, I understand that your amendment, as in a certain way pointed out to Mrs. Rodil, already puts the focus on what must be the object of consensus. And a consensus is not predetermined. One goes with a position, you go with one, each party with another, to defend what you understand to be, but a consensus is a consensus and if each one of you is there does not yield it is not a consensus, it is an imposition. In any case, with regard to what I was pointing out, Mrs Rodil, we agree, of course. Derogation from the Plurilingualism Decree? Of course I do. A Welsh law of education? Of course I do. But not as a distinguishing symbol -- we commented on it the other day -- but as a law that allows us to stick to the reality of the educational system of this autonomous community, which is nothing else, it's not another demand, it's not a matter of singularity; that is, we have a law of our own, and a law of our own to guarantee certain things. And with regard to what Mr. Fernández Gil said, what do you want me to say? He says that tomorrow there is a question, obviously partly — which I think is good, eh!, as part of the democratic functioning — for the Counsellor to explain Galicia's position. No, it's a lie, and you, as a PhD in philosophy, know that's not true, it's a logical fallacy. It's not Galicia's position, it's the position of the Government of Galicia, which is not the same. And that is why we wanted here — I see little success — to come up with a consensus mechanism. It will be the position of the Government, because I don't know. Perhaps En Marea and the Bloc asked them, of course the Socialist Group did not ask the Counsellor what position he would defend at that conference in the Senate, and will therefore be the position of the Government of Galicia. Who did you talk to? I suppose with no one and therefore not a position of the Autonomous Community, it is a position of the Government of Galicia. You say, hey!, after quoting Guillermo de Ockham and that duplicity, look, replacing the political criterion with a technical body completely invalidates the function that we have the 75 that we are here. I mean, if there are already technicians to define what the education system is, we can all go home, save a certain amount of money from the Autonomous Community and preach to Parliament. And anyway, I hadn't prepared any Latin phrase to answer his Ockham appointment, but, as a fellow student of the Education Inspectorate who was a Latin teacher: ad impossible no one holdtur, i.e., in view of the impossibility we can do nothing, and if you're going to vote that not a request for consensus, of consensus from this autonomous community...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u146	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u147	...nothing we can do too much for the will we put on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u148	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. About the amendment, did you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u149	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u150	Thank you. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, we don't. We are now debating the next proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez and Ms. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece to curb the plague of the bead of the chestnut tree
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u151	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor to make the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u152	Good afternoon, gentlemen, Mr. President. The chestnut sector, a spring sector in Galicia after a latent abandonment since the 1980s, is again threatened by the possible advancement of Dryocosmus, or, what is the same, the beeve of the chestnut — as is commonly known —. Galicia is Spain's main autonomous community in chestnut production and export. The last campaign exceeded 20 million kilos, which translate into an estimated value that generates about 100 million euros a year. It is now finding, by means of companies, producers, sellers, owners, the widespread concern throughout Galicia for the advance of this plague. Today, the spider is expanding at a high speed, without any measures, such as pruning or cuts of feet affected, and the few that have been done have not succeeded at all. The plague of the pineapple can cause serious economic damage to the production of chestnuts, but especially the forest heritage of centenary bumps throughout the eastern part of Galicia. The hope of the chestnut sector is set in the biological struggle against the plague through the release of its parasite, Torymus. In Galicia, the experimental battle of the chestnuts with Torymus began in 2015, with the release of some 10,000 specimens of the insect in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense, the most present of the problem. This is not only because the bird attacked more the provinces of the interior, but because the rest of the country has a little eucalyptalized, there's little chestnut. The ability of the pest to multiply from year to year is the main concern of the sector, because each female in the bean can lay between 100 and 200 eggs per campaign. The avespa was detected in Galicia in May 2014, not last year 2016, as our advisor stated in the audience of the previous plenary, I don't know whether by ignorance or by misrepresenting that data—I mean, Mr. President, that you lied... or I can tell you—and secondly, because the draft of Galicia's own publication is 2015 and tell us that it will invade much of the Castilian populations of the autonomous community in four or five years. [[Laughter]] According to experience in previously infested countries, the only effective measure to maintain the plague below the damage threshold and thus regaining the productivity of the shipbuilder is biological control through the Torymus sinensis parasitoid. This autochthonous parasite of the Chinese avian had not achieved any high rates that were needed to keep the pest under control. Now, if I may, a brief description, imitating Mr. González, the friend and companion talking about the elbow in the previous commission. Dryocosmus, a hymenopteric insect, such as bees and spiders, native to China, begins its dispersal from 1941 with its dispersion through Japan, in 1974 it arrives in North America and in 2002 it reaches the Italian coast and a few years later it is spread in much of the European chestnut area, specifically in southern France and throughout the Iberian peninsula; the first time in Catalonia, in the Peninsula, in 2012 in Catalonia, and in Galicia and Portugal in 2014, the year in which it officially mentions its presence in eight localities in the provinces of Lugo, La Coruña and Ourense. The Chinese beetle of the chestnut is considered the most important pest of the main species of beetle around the world. It causes losses that can exceed 50% and even reach 100% of chestnut production loss. It weakens the populations and crops of this species, which is so important in our Galician landscape and in the rural economy of many central and eastern Galician towns. The speed of its spread and the enormous impact on the trees makes it necessary to take protective measures, firstly, by the owners of the huts; secondly, by the vivairists and the vivairists, which are threatened by their productions and their plantations; and thirdly — which I believe, not because it is the last, is less important — by the Councillory of the Rural Environment of the board of Galicia. And why? Because it's a plague that's affecting 221,900 acres of bumps in Galicia, chestnut production-oriented bumps that exceed on occasion, as we mentioned earlier, the 20 million kilograms per season. The Chinese beeve of the chestnut comes to the yellow souts at the time of the reactivation of the crop, in which many landowners and landowners and souts see chestnut production as a good productive alternative at a time when a great effort is being made for the establishment of new souts and the restoration of old souts. The presence of the avespa also worries very directly those responsible for the Lourizán Forest Research Centre — so they have expressed it — that model centre to which the People's Party continues to deprive of a decent budget, in which they retain collections and conditions of traditional varieties of more than a hundred different species recognized in the IXP "Galic Castle". The beekeeper's bee is an important threat to all the work developed by the teachers in Lourizán, so protection measures should be put in place. The fact that populations are made up of only females, which lay between a hundred and two hundred eggs each, gives the species the ability to establish or regenerate a population from one individual. It also gives you a great reproductive capacity, which translates into very rapid population growth. Besides, like other invasive exotic species, it benefits Europe from the absence of effective natural enemies that regulate its populations, limiting its dispersion and density. The adults, with a size of between 2 and 2.5 millimeters, emerge from mid-May to late July and live about 10 days. They leave the bug prepared to omit a load of more than a hundred eggs. Posts take place on the new gems developed on the new gems growing. Every gemma can have within it up to twenty eggs. The eggs hatch within the yolks at thirty or forty days, giving birth to larvae, which remain inside them during the fall to winter. The next spring, when the chestnut starts to dock, the hibernate larvae resume activity, induce the formation of the bugs, feed inside the bugs for about twenty-three days and when they occupy the candle, i.e., the chestnut does not produce fruit. There are two ways of scattering the beeve of the chestnut tree: the natural, also called short-distance dispersion, by a direct flight of the insect itself, without man's influence; it is reaching, moving annually between three and four kilometers at least and eight or ten as a half, up to about twenty-five in the most extreme documented cases and the non-natural dispersion, by all known, by means of human transport and by the distribution of infested vegetable material. Official data indicate that in May 2014 there were eight points affected throughout Galicia. Considering a natural dispersion rate of eight kilometers per year and taking into account long-distance dispersion, it foresees that in only four years, that is, next year, most of the inhabitants of the Galician chestnut are completely infected. One of the questions we ask ourselves — and these data that we have just given here are all data from Galician Union itself — if in just three years the pineapple is present throughout the country, what effective measures has the Rural Media Council taken all this time? Performance losses do not occur or are very low-impacted until 30% of the broken gemes are reached or overcome. When you look at four to six bugs that have been slaughtered by a winter branch of about 50 centimeters, you can estimate that the losses will already exceed 50 per cent. The second or third year of the infestation of a jump, the losses reach between 50% and 80%, even reaching 100%. If yield losses are prolonged, a massive abandonment of the crop is most likely to occur. Torymus — biological control through the release of this parasite — is the realization of biological control. The only specific parasite is the only known effective measure to maintain the populations of avespa below the damage threshold. In many countries, this means of control, discarding chemical warfare, its economic costs, its environmental costs and the low effectiveness of chemicals. It's the only effective way to control the bumps. The introduction of an exotic species carries with it risks to biodiversity and the habitats present. In this case, the main ones are the possibility of hybridization with other autochthonous Torymuss that already exist in the Quercus fortress, so not in the pyrenaics. Non-introduction may pose greater risks to biodiversity and habitats by modifying species composition or load capacity. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment, in collaboration with the Phytopathological Station of the Area, asked the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment to import the parasitoid for biological combat tests, both in laboratory and in field. It is a matter of obtaining results from which the Ministry can assess whether it is possible to use the use and marketing of this body as a means of control. This authorization has already arrived in 2015 and today almost no release has been made from Torymus. In a new one that came out four or five days ago in the voice of Galicia, in an interview with the president of the protected geographical indication, Mr. Quintás, he said, "The chestnut sector is asking for massive loose ends to stop the bird. The chestnut light has already spread to 80% of the trees...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u153	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u154	...of this sort of autonomous community, as pointed out by the president of the IXP of Galicia Jesús Quintá. For the moment, it seems that it has not yet reached some area of the Mountain, but in the rest of the villages of Ourense and Lugo where the plantations are concentrated have already detected their presence." I will put forward the non-legislative proposal that In Marea brings here to the House for its debate: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to: Inform producers, marketers, cooperativeists and companies, etc., about the state of the bird's progress in their territories, as well as the measures they are implementing to curb the plague. Give training courses to producers to attack the pineapple before Torymus arrives. And increasing the game for the eradication of the plague, as it is now being observed how the measures taken so far have not been enough." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u155	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The chestnut is that fruit that has been sustained for centuries by most of the population of our country. In the 19th century, he suffered a death sentence with ink, and then came the philander and other gifts like the massive stem in the 20th century of bumps, of which he remained constant in the toponymy, nothing more, due to the quality of the castry wood. Today, the threat comes from the East in the form of a little lie-worship of the castries, the similarity of what other species—it is from the country—it does with the oaks and oaks, and that gave us to the children of any time those loads, scrambles or round bugs for our games. This little bird, as David said, has been detected in 2014, although he has been with us since 2012. And we assume that at this point, the Council will have completed the studies and actions aimed at knowing the vital cycle of the pet in question. And most importantly, let's assume from the BNG that we'll know about their behavior in the different microclimates and how they affect the conditions of humidity, temperature and other own conditions in our territory, because they don't behave the same in all parts of Galicia. We suppose you've also studied -- I repeat -- why it's often the reason why there's a lower incidence of this plague in those areas where there's an abundance of carballs parasiticized by another cousin who's been living with us and with the oaks for years and years. Is that the predator of these insects that inhabit the carbage mazacucos also attacks the beadhouse of the chestnuts? The researcher Fina Lombardero observed different parasitoid species of insects causing the bugs of the oaks attacking the invasive species in the chestnuts, acting as natural control mechanisms that hinder the spread of this Asian bird. That's why Torymus sinensis releases were too shy and cautious, according to a wide range of producers. We ask that if the dependence on the bird predator seems to be total, the looseness has already been made sooner or later, they will also extend the rescuer Torymus, there is fear, and here comes the sign that the hybridations or imbalances caused by the introduction of this biological controller that do not have to go back. But you'll have to decide. The production of chestnut, despite the institutional dislocation suffered, due to the induced expansion of the eucalyptus, this wonderful tree that has given this country so many benefits and that has made our rural environment a mountain and a promised land where we live happily until now. But by the way, there will be no further torpedoes that we all remember from the release of a bug that could control the plague of the eucalyptus so called "of the country": the insect that in November was released without shelter or heaters, and the poor died in cold. Well, despite the invasion of eucalyptus, the chestnut — as David well said — is in a period of rising because it is fruity that it re-considers as food and as delicate as it is. So it's about walking and taking action, deciding whether we're going to wait and put predator Torymus into timid or massive circulation, order, control and manage the multiplication of it. What are you going to do, open the fence and the market regulates what is the responsibility of public institutions? Are you going to take the problem seriously and inform the affected today and tomorrow to start beating the plague? The problem is serious, and the BNG group is going to support this proposal, of course, which seems to us to fall short, although shy, at this moment when life begins again, the vera prima, which marks the cycle of biologicals. Thank you very much
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. The Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor Mr Quiroga Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u158	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. And today we are here with an initiative that we are going to support and that we also understand that it should achieve a majority and unanimous support from the House, since we are talking about an entire tree and a serious problem for this country, and it is therefore urgent to take action. And our position is favorable, among other things, because the 213,742 hectares that statistically occupy the chestnut trees do not faithfully reflect the reality of chestnut trees and bumps in our country, because outside of this data are the pure masses less than two hectares, which appear not to be collected by the satellite photo or are not analyzed by the researchers. Soots are the formations that represent in particular this plant genre, which in Galicia has up to sixteen distinct varieties that are taken advantage of, each with its qualities, but the chestnut tree as a tree has a great spread, mixed up and even in solitary or small groups. The chestnut tree is a tree that, without being original of the Peninsula, has taken nature letter in Galicia as a whole tree, has calmed the hunger of generations of Greeks, has built houses, has named linens, has encouraged specific constructions or colleges, droughts and canes, etc., and has filled the woodworker and German singer. Not only has he penetrated the gastronomic and sociocultural customs, but with his bulls twisted for centuries of vicissitudes they help set up a passion giving him his own personality. All these aspects are added to the use of fruit, which in the last season — as has already been said here by the rapporteur — came to collect or produce about 20 million kilograms, which provided about 100 million euros, being the leading Greek production in Spain and the first supplier of an expanding internal market, and also as an important supplier of markets such as Italian or even French. The data of 500 direct jobs is quite clarifying the transcendence of this fruit and this tree. Within the economic value of their care, the use not only refers to producers, which in their entirety or in part have a fundamental source of income in their chestnuts, but also to owners in general, who have the use of chestnuts as an income supplement, which in the current economic situation helps many families to reach the end of the month. And then there would be a nuance of what I was talking about earlier with the rapporteur, who seems to us that it is not properly collected in the proposed part of this non-law proposal, which are the owners in general, that we clearly distinguish them from what would be producers. In this context, there is a new scourge that obscures the future of many families and adds to other threats already installed, as previously listed: cancer, ink, theft, slurry and recovery — which is no less important because of the transcendence — of production in other countries, in particular Italy, which can catch up with the rise of this product. So fighting the spider and doing it quickly and efficiently is a vital matter for Galicia and the Greeks. For all these reasons, we are going to support this proposal and we would like to see if we could introduce this change of putting owners in general within the beneficiaries of training and information, given the spread of the shipowner, not only in cassettes, not only in pure masses, but throughout and wide this country. So for all these reasons, we will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u159	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u160	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have come to debate — if you have spoken enough in the speech of the other speakers — a PNL on the bead of the chestnut tree. As always, I read carefully — especially Mr. Rodríguez's — his initiatives, and this too. They say we give more information about the pineapple, we give training courses. This point 2, already in the reply, will explain to me what it means "to give training courses to producers to attack the pineapple before the Torymus sinensis arrives." Then I'll explain why I miss this point. Reading his explanatory statement -- there's some mistake in it, but we'll also talk about it -- it doesn't seem that Junta's acting in the face of the problem of the beaver's bean. I think — and I will argue — that this position is not true. The first thing we have to say about this non-law proposal is that both the Union and our parliamentary group are fully convinced that one of the bulwarks of our agricultural and forestry productions is its quality. So we understand that you must be overwhelmed by a great effort in health and vegetable matters. And when we talk about vegetable health, and when we talk about chestnuts, we have to fight not only against the pineapple but also against chestnut cancer. As the speakers have already said, we're talking about an important sector: 20 million kilograms of chestnuts, 30 million worth for producers and probably around seventy million into processed products. But it's also a production that we all agree to support, not only for its economic value, but also for the ecological and cultural values that make up the jumps for our country. Obviously, the Rural Council is working to protect the production of chestnuts from bumps by means of plant health measures that I will now try to degrade. And I think it's important that we all make it clear that when we detect a problem of vegetable health, such as chestnut cancer or Asian spider cancer, the first thing we have to have is a clear study of what the chances of fighting it are and then acting, you can't act any time. So, for example, in the field of chestnut cancer, we started researching the biological struggle against this cancer in 2003 and we understood that we had to work on hypovirulent strains. We started inoculating in 2011 and with those that are going to be inoculated this year we have already carried over 90,000 feet treated against chestnut cancer. With regard to the bead of the chestnut tree, you have all described the origin of it as well. It is an insect from China that entered Spain in 2012, and Galicia in 2014. Joining hasn't been stopped. First, in May 2014, we communicate the presence of the body in our autonomous community to the Ministry in Madrid. In time, an instruction is given to the provincial services in order to make an early detection of the presence of the pathogen and the preparation of a map of presence. For information, a triptych has been published, which is at your disposal, Mr. Rodríguez, if you like, to have all the information the producers need. What they were told here was what were the problems of the pineapple and how one could somehow try to minimize its impact. Then what was done was to send the samples collected in the field and analyze them by the official reference laboratory to determine the presence of the avian. The Fitopathological Station of the Sand began in 2014 with the essays. Here we have to make clear one thing: the only possibility of biological struggle — and in this we agree everyone we talk about this — against the beekeeper's bird is the release of an insect that parasites and eats larvae, the Torymus sinensis. Yes, ladies, but it's just that Torymus sinensis also comes from Southeast Asia, and therefore we have the problem that he could attack our native fauna. So you have to release them in a controlled way. This is what was done by the Union: in 2015, not 10,000 were released, 15,000 — 10,000 females and 5,000 males were released — so they would reproduce to be able to fight the spider. All this I just told you was duly informed to the sector at the Forest Council on December 11, 2015. I remind you that in the forest sector, among others, trade unions and ecological associations are represented. In 2016—because they're talking about not many—I tell them that 66,500 Torymus synensis individuals were released. And in 2017, according to the data that were also reported to the Forest Council at the February 17 meeting this same year, 133,000 — 84,000 females and 49,000 males — will be released, so that they will re-reprove and do their work against the spider. Besides, Lourizan is studying the possibility that some of our native trees might be better prepared to fight the spider. So, on the one hand, we have the biological struggle with Torymus and, on the other hand, the search for native varieties that are able to be resistant against the pineapple. And I end with the third of the questions, which you talk about raising budgets. In 2017, we have 282,478 euros in the fight against chestnut cancer and 397,420 euros in the fight against chestnut cancer. We're talking about nearly seven hundred thousand euros to fight the plagues that affect our troops. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u161	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u162	Mr. Vázquez, a server here last year reported the bird case in a sauce in a particular place, called the service, came to pick it up, until today. It's been a year, we're waiting for a visit, we're waiting for an explanation of what we have to do with the infected bugs, because up to now no Torymus has been released. That is what we refer to in these training courses to producers to attack the bird while Torymus does not arrive. What do we do in the meantime? What do I have to do if I find an infected bug? Do I look like the ones in the elbow, who are they who don't know what to do with the potatoes, who keep them buried there? It's exactly the same. The autochthonous varieties, yes, it is true that there is the Alongada, of Parede, I think that that of Presas, are three or four native varieties that they resist, but we have more than a hundred varieties recognized in the protected geographical indication of Galician chestnut. What about the other ninety-seven, are we going to eradicate them? We can't just stick around. You're a winegrower, imagine there's a fungus that attacks some kind of strain, and it turns out that it can only produce one kind of grape. I don't see it that way, from En Marea we don't see it that way. The president of Castaña's IXP recognized him five days ago, said last year he lost his time not to authorize the massive release, which we're going to have between six and seven years complicated, that we trust it to be as little as possible, but it's to trust. They're hopeful zero. He was aware that as soon as he got to the pineapple it was to stay here, like other plagues. And what you're doing right now isn't enough. The release of the insect to have all the desired effects has to be done in the spring, when the trees lose the winter cold. On today, are you letting go? In the Central Macizo, they haven't yet released the bird and the case of bugs is documented in the chestnut. Torymus has been employed in the biological struggle against the pineapple since in Italy and France, and has had contrasted effects. It's true, of course we have to investigate, but we've been here since 2014. And if in 2014 eight cases were found in the provinces of Lugo, Ourense and Pontevedra, and now we have it distributed throughout the autonomous community of Galicia, I think that no duties have been made. In Galicia the producer sector has been asking for a solution to this problem for years, afraid of the effects it will have on crops. For our part, nothing else. There's an addition. President, I think we can do this, can't we? All right? It is from the Socialist Party and it would be written as follows: "To inform producers and owners, marketers, cooperatives and companies...", the rest follows the same. Point 2: "Give training courses to producers to attack the pineapple while Torymus does not arrive." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u163	Thank you. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u164	Now I'm reading an institutional statement that made me arrive at the groups on the occasion of the International People's Day: "On 8 April, on the occasion of the International Day of the People of the Shit, the Parliament of Galicia wishes to join in this celebration which recalls the Ith Gypsy Congress held in London on 8 April 1971, in which the flag and the Gypsy anthem were established. In a process of progressing in the necessary and fair institutional recognition of the Gypsy people, these symbols can be used on a protocol basis in commemorations, events and institutional events relating to the Gypsy people, since last March 9 the Congress of Deputies unanimously approved a non-legislative proposal by which "the Congress urges the Government to declare April 8 as the Day of the Gypsy People, recognizing the blue and green flag with a red wheel of sixteen radios and the 'Gelem, Gelem' as the anthem of the Gypsy people." From public authorities we must contribute to this institutional recognition to a community with its own history and culture, which has been based in Spain for more than five centuries and which, however, remains the most socially rejected minority in both Spain and Europe. This International Day of the Gypsy People must be a day of celebration for the Gypsies and the Gypsies, to which we must increasingly join the institutions and the whole of society. It is a day to remember the history of the Gypsy people, their long and painful pilgrimage of expulsions over the centuries; a day to remember the victims of Nazi genocide and so many persecutions throughout their history. This 8th April is an opportunity to recognize the Gypsy community as part of our citizenship, to show the diverse and plural reality of the Gypsy people and to value their contributions to the construction of our society. Despite the progress that has been made in recent decades, the Gypsy community continues to suffer levels of poverty and exclusion that reveal the great rift of inequality that often prevents them from fully exercising their rights. The high rates of school failure among Roma students, the difficulty of Roma people to access the labour market, and the situation of the sub-life of many families seize any opportunity of social advancement. This must be added to the bad social image of the Roma community, based on prejudices and stereotypes deeply rooted in our society, which often stem from deep ignorance and which generate situations of rejection and discrimination. Public authorities have the responsibility to ensure equality for all citizens, including Gypsies, by putting in place the measures necessary to reduce social inequalities, combat discrimination and anti-Citrusism and encourage the active participation of Gypsies and Gypsies in all areas and spaces in our society. On 8 April, International People's Day, it's a good opportunity to visit the Roma communities and celebrate this day together with our Gypsy and Gypsy citizens, and we ask the whole society to join this commemoration." Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Approved by consent.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago and six other Members, on the momentum for the Galician Union, together with Fegamp, of the creation of supramunicipal cemeteries that can meet the demand for burials according to the requirements of the minority confessions with greater raignification in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u165	We are now debating the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago. Amendments have been made to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and to the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u166	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Paz Couñago has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact is that this Member could not dream of a better preamble than what has just been read to advance the debate on the initiative that we are taking today and that we are bringing here right now. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin this intervention by greeting the people who accompany us today in the guest gallery of the Galician Parliament. On the one hand, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Islamic community of Galicia, led by their president, Salam aleikum! We are also accompanied this afternoon by representatives of the Jewish community of Israel of Galicia, all of them, Shalom! And let me say that I especially greet Mrs. Ania Horszowski, a survivor of the Lwow ghetto, and that 95 years ago she accompanied us with the emotion that caused her to know the presentation of this initiative. I especially appreciate it. About two years ago, and with the gallery of the presentation of a book on religious minorities in Galicia, sponsored by the Pluralism and Convivence Foundation, I had the opportunity to establish a first contact with representatives of different religious confessions of minority implementation in Galicia. During the course of that act, and in the brief conversation that we had later, we agreed that there were no serious problems of coexistence arising from religious intolerance in Galicia, without the increase in recent years of people who process non-Catholic creeds had assumed no significant problem in our country. In addition to finding this reality, the representatives of the various confessions took the opportunity to transfer different claims of a very different nature to the autonomous administration. Among them, he highlighted a very remarkable one: the absence of spaces to be able to bury his loved ones, meeting the requirements set by their respective religious beliefs. In successive meetings we had the opportunity to know more often the problem arising from this circumstance. On the one hand, we are confronted with the problems of citizens of foreign origin, who in many cases opt to subscribe to insurance that allows their remains to be repatriated to their country of origin. If you choose this citizen to remain in Spain, you should be transferred to one of the cemeteries of your confession, which if in many cases exists in other autonomous communities. When the economic possibilities do not allow the subscription of this insurance, it is the other members of the community who must lay down different solutions, in order to be able to repatriate these funeral remains, assuming a very complex administrative tariff, in addition to paying for surely important transfer costs. If the deceased is to be transferred to North Africa, for example, the cost can be around EUR five thousand. If its source is located in farthest latitudes — which is not uncommon — it can reach even the fourteen thousand euros. All these circumstances, as you will understand, contribute to making even more difficult a trance, already in itself painful, as is the loss of a loved one. But not all citizens who profess these religions are foreign citizens. There is a growing number of Greek citizens who, well because of their family context in which they were born, either through conversion processes, with origins sometimes in marriage, or sometimes simply in personal reflection, have no more homeland than our own. These citizens, like many others who are not born in Galicia, are already feeling fully Greek, must choose at their last moment between love for their country and love for their religion. We don't think this is a fair choice. Therefore, after these meetings, we collected the glove that was released to us and included in the electoral program of our party, the People's Party of Galicia, the commitment to promote the creation of cemeteries for minority confessions in Galicia. Today we have come here to take the first step towards fulfilling that commitment, and we have done so from the conviction that we can solve a problem of a human nature and from the conviction that with this solution we are moving forward in the exercise of the civil rights of minorities in Galicia, minorities and the majority as well. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party of Galicia defends the principle of religious freedom and of the cooperation of public authorities with the confessions, enshrined in Article 16 of the Spanish Constitution, which in its literal content states: "It guarantees the ideological, religious and religious freedom of individuals and communities without further limitation, in their manifestations, that the necessary for the maintenance of public order protected by law. - No one can be forced to declare his ideology, religion or belief." And, finally, "No confession will have any state character. The public authorities will take into account the religious beliefs of Spanish society and maintain the consequent relationships of cooperation with the Catholic Church and other confessions." Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the attacks on the public projection of any religious element appear to be justified below, in my view, false argument that democratic perfection is achieved only through the application of secularist principles, we want to make a defense of the democratic model established in our Constitution, which strongly bets on granting a public status to the religious fact of any confession and without limit that establishes the only book that all of us represent and everyone is obliged to us: the Spanish Constitution of 1978. So we are not going to assume that the exercise of this religious freedom is intended to restrict itself to the sphere of the private sphere of individuals, in the same way that we could not tolerate that we could only exercise our right to free expression in the privacy of our homes. Today, under the roof of the institution that represents the sovereignty of the Greeks, we find ourselves people of different creeds and opinions. The Galician Parliament, surely the highest expression of public debate in our country, welcomes right now, at this very moment, Catholics, Muslims, Jews, atheists and agnostics, everyone with their belief, everyone with their opinion. I sincerely believe that few times Galicia plural has been as well represented as today. And all this here, in the field of the most public debate in all Galicia. This is Galicia that we like, tolerant, plural and able to collaborate to solve the problems and difficulties of its likes. The approach we make to them today also requires the collaboration of different administrations. The Galician Union is the driving force to address a problem that affects a large number of Galician families, whether they're of origin, or because of their sense of belonging to this land. But we must not forget that cemeteries are a basic competence of the local administration, and consequently this administration would be responsible for the provision of it. And despite the increase in the number of citizens professing minority religions, the municipalities could hardly solve this problem in an individual way, mainly because of the geographical dispersal of this population and the lack of critical mass that justifies the creation of cemeteries of these characteristics in each of the Greek municipalities, or even in one-off municipalities. That is why we believe that the best way to address this issue is through collaboration with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, legitimate representative of the whole of the Greek municipality, in order to seek the most appropriate solution to each case in a consistent and as rationally possible manner. At a time when walls and barriers are raised in different parts of the world to protect us from those who think or feel different, today we have the opportunity to send a different message. One message that there is another way to avoid conflicts, based on generosity, tolerance and knowledge of the other, because that was always the way in which the Greeks proceed. We are a people who have spread around the world and who have conquered it with tolerance, with work, with kindness. I think it is fair that today the legitimate representatives of the people of Greece that we sit here should dignify this condition of this people that we represent and have the generosity to make an effort so that we can unanimously recognize the fair claims of the people who accompany us today and of many others who profess different confessions. I hope that we will be able to do this, and I hope that we will be able to convey good news to all these people, to all these Greeks who have come to their home today to see how their representatives were able to represent them properly. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u168	Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u169	Good afternoon. I have to say that we share the concern expressed here by the representative of the People's Group, Mr Pazos, for the religious confessions he calls "minority," that we would not use this qualification. Apart from that, it would already be the solemn style and a little grandiose of its intervention and that ecumenical calling which it launched here, which contrasts a little with the political practice of the People's Party, because there are thousands of other people in Europe at the doors of other beliefs, other religions, other skin colors who are waiting in miserable conditions to enter Europe, and they have the rejection of party policies like theirs, which we are waiting to welcome these refugees who have committed themselves to welcoming. [[Applause]] So these ecumenical speeches are fine, but they have to be more consistent and coherent. I would also like with my intervention to convince you that there are also other people who have rights, other sensibilities, other beliefs, and who also respect their political practice, for example, people who are the second group in terms of quantitative questions by beliefs, who are, for example, atheists and non-believers, who according to CIS represent more than 26% of the population, and are growing. And by not saying anything because they are also consistent with this ecumenical discourse and they start changing the status quo of privileges that, for example, the Catholic Church at the expense of other confessions or other beliefs that people have. Because, of course, it's very good to talk about religious freedom, but the Catholic Church enjoys in the Spanish State a number of privileges that I believe contradict the principles of a democratic state. By the way, privileges that are part of that heavy inheritance of frankism, of national Catholicism — they don't like to be told, but they do — that same franchise that exterminated hundreds of evangelicals, who persecuted hundreds of other religious people. That's the inheritance we have today. [[Murmurs.]] And, then, we have to talk about the agreements with the Holy See logically, which creates a state of exception of privileges for the Catholic Church, that is — by the way, agreements with the Holy See that have been sanctified by the two majority political forces of the Spanish State, and that create a reality — if — of privileges such as having the Catholic Church financing agreements that benefit it, having privileges and tax benefits, that we have the anachronism in the Spanish State that in the taking up of public positions there are symbols of the Catholic religion. I think that's offensive to other religions, to other beliefs, to other people who think differently. [[Murmurs.]] That must disappear from our reality. Or the confusion that continues between the state and Catholic religion in many public practices and many social practices. That is also discriminatory for other beliefs, for other ways of seeing the world. Not to mention the privilege that still holds the Catholic Church, for example, in the register of public goods, which is leading to the appropriation of goods that are from around the world. That's also a reality in that state that you set as a democratic model. Not to mention that Catholic Mass still survives in the public media. And we're against Catholic churches, be they in Greek, be they in Spanish. [[Applause]] And we think people should have freedom to attend places of worship, logically, but the public is not to favor certain religious beliefs as well. [[Applause]] Not to mention the presence in the absolutely dominant teaching in the curriculum of Catholic religion. Or in the case of cemeteries — which is the theme that concerns us — that 90% of the cemeteries in Galicia are Catholic. [[Murmurs.]] Well, here's been a legislation for almost 40 years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u170	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u171	...which forces what you're putting now as a new proposal. What have you been doing in these forty years to fail to comply with the Law of Basics of Local Regime, the Law of Religious Freedom or the Law of Burials in Municipal Cemeteries, which obliges, for example, that there are spaces reserved for burials of various religious confessions? Do you know what year this law is? The year 1978. The People's Party has been ruling for many decades both in the state and in Galicia, what have they been doing to apply this regulation? Well, therefore, there's a vigorous legislation that allows you to do that. An effort should be made to ensure that municipal public cemeteries themselves, which should be more than they exist now, because there is also a legal obligation for municipalities to have cemeteries as a public service so that there are already burials for the different beliefs. We therefore propose — being realistic and also with a principle of prudence and effectiveness — to amend its proposal so that instead of "impulse" the expression "study in collaboration with Fegamp" is put. Cemeteries, which may or may not be of a supramunicipal character, because there could be already existing cemeteries with land that would allow them to have this destiny, because already the Burial Law in public cemeteries requires that there be such spaces. So we'd have to explore that road, which would be much easier. And then there are many unknowns here, for example: are these cemeteries going to be exclusively for other beliefs that you call "minority" or are they going to be of general use?, who has the initiative?, who will process the projects, because if they are supra-municipal it is supposed to process them to Join?, who will fund them? There are many unknowns left. At the same time, we propose two additions that we understand that they complement their proposal, that I already say we share it and that we tone it in any case in those cases... Calm down! [[Murmurs.]] Calm down!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u172	Quiet. Yes, yes, we all calm down. Also on this side. On all sides quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u173	...promover... No, no, if I don't care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u174	Quiet. No, but it's over now. Look at the weather.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u175	I don't care if they interrupt me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u176	No, no, look at the weather. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u177	...two additions proposing that the current legal framework be met, which establishes that the municipalities should lend themselves or jointly the public service of cemeteries; that's a legal obligation. And third, "Collaborate with the Town Councils to enable in the cemeteries spaces for the celebration of farewell ceremonies", which should not be spaces for use...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u178	You got it. Thank you very much, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u179	And there's another time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u180	Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u181	...dismount that whole plot of privileges that the Catholic Church has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u182	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, silence... no... respect the audience we have upstairs, please, who are our guests.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all the guests today in this House of the different religions of our country. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We believe that the moment of passage is really a particularly painful and delicate moment for anyone, who regardless of the religion that professes is an important moment, not only for the person who dies but also, above all, for the family or friends in charge of this work, because we all want to do this moment in the way that the person who has completed, fulfilling his will, his customs and according to his religious beliefs. We also know that the costs of burials are too high, they often pose an important problem for those who have to cope with them. And in the case of minority religions — Muslims, Israelis, evangelicals, among others — they do not count in Galicia with any suitable place to be able to do their burials according to the rites of the religion they profess. So there are two solutions: either bury them in existing cemeteries and perform burials in places that are not adapted to their beliefs, or move either out of Galicia or out of the state and assume the costs that this entails, increasing by itself the already high cost of a burial. But, look, the Socialist Party has already adopted laws 24/1992, 25/1992 and 26/1992, for which state cooperation agreements were approved with the Federation of Evangelical Religious Entities of Spain, the Federation of Israeli Communities of Spain and the Islamic Commission of Spain respectively. And in which they collect, among other things, the civil effects of marriages celebrated before ministers of worship of these religions. Therefore, the socialists have been, we are and will continue to be defenders of equality as a basic principle in our society. Equality of rights between persons of different sex, equality of rights between persons of different skin color, equality of rights between persons of different capacities and, of course, equality of rights between persons of different religious beliefs. We are going to approve this GNP, Mr Pazos, of course. And I have to say that besides his speech almost reaches my heart. But we socialists, we do believe in equality, and that's why we think it's approved without the amendments that we tabled for this GNP, are actually not fulfilling its role. [[Applause]] They're doing what they usually do: doing that they don't do anything, absolutely nothing. They bring an empty proposal of content, and they also pretend that once again the municipalities are the ones that carry out the elimination of the inequalities that you people of the Galician Union are not able to balance. [[Applause]] You know perfectly well that in order to materialize this agreement, it's not enough to present a GNP in Parliament and cover a file, leave it to the municipalities, telling them it's their competence, and then, if it's not done, the People's Party's Parliamentary Group has already done what they were supposed to do and they can't do anything else. If they really want to carry out this non-legislative proposal, we present an amendment, gentlemen, making a plan, and in that plan they say: first, what the Greek councils are going to do, since there is none in Galicia; second, a timetable with execution deadlines, because the agreements have to be made with deadlines —sine die are no agreements—and third, a financing plan, because without money there is no project or work. I suppose the People's Party isn't going to approve a PNL and pay for the municipalities, right? among other things, because I saw in the press that Fegamp's own president says he has knowledge of the press of these agreements. Really, if you want to take this initiative forward and if you really care about these people, who represent 6% of the population in Greece, you approve our amendments. So if you'll see your legitimate claims collected. And by the way, they also know that normative changes must be made, both in the Galician Health Act and in the Galician Death Health Decree. However, our vote will be in favour of it, because, as I told you at the outset, Socialists and Socialists always believe in equality and agree on equal texts and rights with agreements that are contained, not with empty GNP. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u185	Hello, Mr. President. Welcome to the guests who are up there and thank you for being here in this Parliament. From the Parliamentary Group in Marea we will defend and defend whenever religious freedom and worship is recognized as a right of all Greeks and Greeks, a constitutional right, and, in fact, we want to emphasize that all people can profess and promote any kind of confession, as long as it develops in the field of the private sphere and meets with the legal and normative framework. It is necessary to have a clear thing: that from En Marea we have absolutely clear that the essence of democracy is based precisely on this, on freedom of choice at all levels, and, within that freedom, we include logically the freedom to choose between one or another confession, or none, that this is also part of freedom. We also want to point out that this defense of religious freedom for nothing means to put on trial the confederacy of the State. Precisely to ensure that our democratic system survives, both the executive power and the legislative and judicial authority must assume that confederacy and remain neutral. One thing is to defend religious freedom for citizens and another very different thing is that state structures are taking sides in a particular religion and that they benefit from the basis of privileges that perpetuate legislation after legislation and government after government, as we are seeing in our country. It cannot be, for example, that the Catholic Church is exempt from paying the IBI, when many companies and citizens of our territory, of our state, have trouble reaching the end of the month. It is not democratic that at this time Catholic religion continues to condition much of the educational policy, nor can we allow the unequal distribution of judas and public subsidies to associations according to the religion and principles they profess. We've just seen a very recent example of the controversy over the bus. Let's hear it. It is true that at this moment I myself could coincide with many statements by the current leader of the Catholic Church, Pope Francis, who, as some have already joked, even advances us to the political formations on the left on the left, precisely. I'm going to quote some of your statements, because they may be familiar to you, and all of you — you too — can learn from them. For example, "Hypocrisy is the language of corruption." It appears at a mass pronounced in July 2013, very close to a day like today, with which it is happening in Murcia. "It cannot be tolerated that the Mediterranean becomes a great cemetery," a speech delivered before the European Parliament in Strasbourg at the end of 2014 by Pope Francis. "When a family doesn't even have to eat, because it has to pay the loan to the usurers, that's not Christian, it's inhuman." "There is no social or political or moral justification to accept the lack of accommodation." This was at a meeting of the pope with the homeless in the parish of San Patrick, Washington, in September 2015. "It can't be news that an old man dies cold in an indigent situation in the street and that if it is a drop of two points in the bag." However, for Mr Feijó, the need for the social bond was not so high. And finally, in April 2015, in a letter from the Summit of the Americas, he said, "Until an equitable distribution of wealth is achieved, the evils of our society will not be solved." I think many of us here can match the spirit of these phrases, especially on this bench, but even if they come from the highest responsibility for world Catholicism, this does not mean that they are an excuse to give a benefit to one religion over the others and a treatment of favor and to put on the web of judgment the confederation of our state. Speaking already and entering into the field of this NLP - which has surprised us with the truth, with regard to what is the usual sensitivity of the People's Party - we see that, in fact, today, the number of people in Galicia who say that they profess a religion other than Catholic represents an environment of 6% of the total population and that in recent years other religions have actually increased their presence exponentially, increasing the number of followers to other confessions, for two main reasons, among them, the increase of people who come to live and work in Galicia, and also because we see that in the last fifteen years about 250,000 people who come from different territories - it is not at the levels of Catalonia or Madrid, but, however, we see that it is something that is increasing -- and that they bring their beliefs. This simplifies the way to open up a religious multiplicity, which is positive for us. And we also see how young Greeks have great differences with previous generations, because those young people who stop following Catholicism as a predominant religion are far above the average age of 60, which is 1.7, and those of the under 30 are 11.1. So, taking this into account and already valuing what the initiative is, we do consider, although many things have already been said in this regard, that it is not a new proposal, we note that it is empty of content and that it is a project that does not seem to be very mature, in fact, we also received the attention that the president of the Fegamp heard from the press of the initiative. And we also want to point out that the councils that have competence in relation to cemeteries, as already noted, we believe that they have to bear a cost and that, if there is no calendar on the line that the Socialist Party showed, we don't see how they're going to finance. And with regard to the creation of a supramunicipal cemetery, although it's positive, we don't see very well how the municipalities, if they don't explain it, will finance these kinds of cemeteries, and we would also consider a better alternative for those smaller municipalities to sign agreements between them with the larger neighbouring municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u187	Yes, I'm done. So we'll wait and see that it's said at the end of its intervention of the amendments of the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block of Wales to see if we abstain or vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I suppose our guests must be surprised. Of course, they must be thinking right now: what these gentlemen will say when the debate and the proposal they make doesn't like it! Because all of this is heard in a proposition that, supposedly, pleases you. Frankly, at last, I understand you're getting a little confused out of here. In any case, if I'm going to clear up some questions. First, I assume I've probably used a solemn tone for the initial exposition of this non-law proposal. I think it's because I think it's a solemn moment, and I think the presence of the people who are here today and the importance of the measure for these people deserved to be treated with proper solemnity. [[Applause]] From there I have to say that, at last, there are things I was trying to express and probably I wasn't able to do it properly. One of the things I was trying to say, Mr Bará, is that we can disagree, that we can disagree, that we can have different opinions and that that doesn't necessarily mean that, when we have to deal with these differences, we have to miss anyone about it. And I think some questions that you said today, frankly, could have been saved in this House. I have to regret, and much, in addition to showing my surprise, to listen -- and listen, in addition, to his mouth; if I may, the term sounds somewhat apocryphal -- the term "the plot" referred to in the Catholic Church. I think it is, frankly, unfortunate, as I think it is frankly unfortunate to say that what you define as your privileges have their roots in franchiseism, when that agreement, those agreements to which you mentioned, are collected in the 1978 Spanish Constitution. I understand that you don't like that Constitution, I can understand it, but please respect it, and respect all the Spaniards who have self-referred to that Constitution, which has nothing to do with the regime that preceded it, which is an unfortunate reminder for everyone. In any case, it's true that there are no such cemeteries, it's true, and it's true that we've probably all had the opportunity to do much more in the past to solve this issue. But, of course, I have to remind you, because the competitive distribution of matters between administrations has not done them the current government, that the competence of cemeteries is municipal; it is excessively municipal, and you say: why has it not been fulfilled? Well, I don't know, you guys have half a life in Pontevedra, Mr. Bará, I suppose these people can come there to be buried according to their beliefs. But no, of course not, of course you can't. [[Applause]] And that's why we have to try to come up with solutions and that's why we believe that the most valid interlocutor for this is the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. And, of course, no, we do not deal with the President of the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, because he is a gentleman who is a member of the Socialist Party, and we have the custom of drawing up the People's Party's programme among the members of the People's Party; that is yes, gathering the majority feeling of society. We may be wrong, but until now we haven't done anything wrong. Therefore, Your Honor, as far as the world is concerned, as far as local autonomy is concerned, and we're going to be a little more tolerant. Of course, we will not publicly protest against the issuance of Catholic mass on public television, and even invite public television or any other television to carry out the broadcast of other religious programs from other confessions. It's just that religious freedom can't be restricted to the private sector; it's a terrible mistake, because from that extension to all other rights we'll end up holding this debate via the telephone so nobody can listen to us, because that's how you have to understand the exercise of fundamental rights. That right that can't be exercised publicly is not right, it's quite the opposite, it's the closure of the citizens' fundamental rights... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u190	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u191	...and there they'll never find us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u192	The amendments, on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u193	Yes, on the amendments I will simply say, Mr Bará, that we have no habit of keeping dialogue with those who are seriously, sincerely, with regard to this group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As for the amendment of the Socialist Party, which I thank, moreover, the tone of the intervention, if it seems to you, we speak and try to arrive at a transaction in this regard, which I believe will be possible, for the satisfaction of all the people who accompany us today. Thank you and them very much for your attention, and don't worry, Galicia and your Parliament today will speak in favour of this LNP.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u194	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Concepción Burgo López and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the current system of concession and regulation of scholarships and aids to the study
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u195	An amendment was tabled by the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u196	To formulate the proposal you have the floor to Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen invited to the rostrum, of the changes made by President Rajoy and the People's Party in the Government of Spain in the field of education, I would say that the most serious are all those who broke the criteria of equality and equality of opportunity, which are those who have to preside over any educational system, and that in Spain we will also get them to a very high degree. This very high degree of equity has been broken with the policies of the People's Party, fundamentally, among other things, with the policy of scholarships, which is fundamental to achieving that equality of opportunity, because they have to ensure that no one who has the capacity, vocation, courage and willingness to pursue non-compulsory studies can do so. With President Zapatero's government, the spending on scholarships grew steadily in all budgets of his mandate, because we knew the weakness of the stock exchange system in Spain. And also with President Zapatero, the scholarship was a right. It was a right because all students who met the requirements had a help after their studies. And the requirements were economical, logically, because the bags are about to fix economic problems, not other types. Academic requirements were only used to renew the aid. All this I suppose had grown, and much, the number of pockets along Mr. Zapatero's mandates. It's all over with President Rajoy's politics. The whole system has changed, and it has changed with clear ideological motivation: to reduce the number of university students, which is what Minister Wert and Mr Rajoy wanted. Excluding students from families with reduced economic power and, of course, also reducing the budget for scholarships. And all of this was achieved by two decrees that changed the whole system. Decree 1000/2012 of June 29th, which increased academic requirements to get help for the studies, increased them in an absolutely unfair way. I remember him if his lords forgot. Now, in order to have a supplementary scholarship, a scholarship that pays the tuition and that pays in addition a supplement for the residence and help in the studies, the student and the student must have a 6.5. That, ladies and gentlemen, was remarkable. At least when I had a student with 6.5, I gave him a remarkable one. To just get the tuition fees was a 5.5. They didn't change the rules at college, because whoever has the money to pay the tuition and pay the studies doesn't need a 5.5 or 6.5, needs a 5. I mean, those who have money go from course to course and get enrolled with 5, those who don't, with 6.5. If this isn't unfair from every point of view, you'll tell me. But besides in 2013 there was another decree, the 609, which checked all the economic allocations of the various aids for university degrees and masters, changed the typologies, removed the aid to mobility and reduced the count to half. It was obvious to everyone what was going to happen with these changes in the bags, but now we can not only predict it, but now we know what happened. And we don't know what happened because the Socialist Party says it, we know what happened, what had the consequences of all this, through reports and expert analyses; through reports from the Rectors Conference and also articles such as Professor Hernández Armenteros, one of the greatest specialists in university funding. What happened? Yes, ladies, I beg you to hear this because, really, it's very important. The next one's passed. First of all, that the increase in academic requirements to access a scholarship left out of the scholarship and study aid system in 2014 and 2015 around 53,000 students, who before had a chance to obtain a scholarship and who now do not have that possibility; 53,000 students out of the system. The number of fellow students has grown to 3% per year when they grew from 30% to 35% per year in previous years. It has had another consequence: it has greatly increased the number of fellows who only reach a scholarship to pay university fees; that is to say, only the tuition, as if there were no other expenses to attend when one makes a university career. They multiplied by three of these pockets. They went from 12% in the 2012-2013 course to 36% in the 2014-2015 course. This means that 36% of the Spanish purses only receive the tuition fee; nothing more than that, nothing more. It also had another consequence: the 2013 decree caused a very important impoverishment of the economic capacity of students and university students in scholarships. According to the report by the CRUE and Dr. Hernández Armenteros, the average per-capita allocation for the new conditions fell by 20,33 % between 2012, 2013 and the 2014 course. In 2014, the average stock exchange of a Spanish stock exchange is at the height and level of 2006; that is, our stock exchanges went back ten years exactly, almost ten years, to the edge of their bags. This does not take into account that, given the confusing system invented by the People's Party at this time in March 2017, there are thousands of students who have not yet received their scholarship. The problem is such every year, that this year there was a request on the change.org platform that demands that scholarships that are not yet paid be paid. 200,000 signatures, ladies and gentlemen. 200,000 stock exchange firms and other people concerned about equality who ask for the scholarship to be paid in the course in which it is requested, because at the end of the course they still don't have the scholarships. And what's also very important, how did all of this affect the Greek students that the Union has an obligation to defend? Well, it affected us the following way. First, the average amount of the scholarship for the German students' scholarships between the 2012 and the 2014-2015 course dropped by 29.08%, 29% less, and does not derive from the importance of the enrollment count, because in 2012 and 2014 the registration count is exactly the same. They lost 1,000 euros, ladies and gentlemen, 1,000 euros per capita, as an average, the Greek purses. And besides, there are many fewer Greek students with a bag, exactly a 9.8. Statistical figures of the Ministry of Education and Culture, not ours, comparing 2011 and 2014. Practically 10% less pockets in Galicia. And all this doesn't work out the famous scholarships they always boast about at the Council of Culture. Because, ladies and gentlemen, probably many of you who are not in this world don't know, but the Council's bags for those who are out of Wert's system, which, by the way, is already an amendment to Wert's system, those who have between 5 and 6.5, those who stay out, just pay the license plate, just. And do you know how many he grants to the Council? Three out of every ten applicants. It's only three out of ten people who ask for it. If you join all of this, you'll see how the Greek students are increasingly struggling to access... of course, students with no means!, because media students have no difficulty: neither notes can be enrolled as often as they want, that with which their father and mother pay, there is no more. All this means that many can't get to college. For all this, we ask this Parliament to tell the Government of Spain and the People's Party that all these changes must be changed already, to return to the previous amendments. But also with consensus, convene the Scholarship Observatory and achieve consensus among all. To review the income tops, which are preventing many people with economic problems from having a scholarship, and to create a rescue grant that will allow -- this is the case -- to return to the students who lost their scholarship according to Minister Wert's requirements. Since I believe that they are all objective and logical petitions, and that we have already known the disastrous consequences of the changes, I hope that you all vote positively on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u199	Good afternoon again. I'm starting to figure it out briefly. The amendment we tabled from the Galician Nationalist Block was originally conceived as a substitution amendment, but we finally reached the agreement that it would be accepted as an addendum. And basically what we propose from the Galego Nationalist Block is to ask or urge the Government of the Spanish State to take the necessary steps to transfer Galicia's competence and ability to manage scholarships to study. By the way, by checking the damn hemerothec, it was something that had already been agreed upon in 2008. In fact, a first agreement had been signed at that time with two completely different governments that we found today both in the Council of Galicia and in the Government of the Spanish State. Among other transfers, for example — including the work inspections, which were also mentioned today in this House — were also the management by the Greek Administration of scholarships for study. He said we have to go further, first, to make ourselves responsible for our own future and assume the capacity that this government has -- although we often disagree with the policy it develops -- and this people to make their own decisions. In addition, having that political ability to directly manage scholarships for study would allow us — if we had agreed, for example, in this House — to increase their content, to adapt the aid to the needs of our student and to the reality of Greece, because — I said before — that is not Andalusia, that is not Madrid, that is not Canary Islands, and here we find ourselves with a reality in which we have to deal, for example, with transport marked by great difficulties, which, in many cases, obliges us to rent a flat, change of residence or have to take on by the student and his family much greater expenses than in other territories. Direct management of these aids would also allow us, for example, to facilitate their processing. One of the issues we are talking about on this initiative is precisely the delays that we have witnessed this year. Whenever you reduce the population that a certain measure should be applied to and also approach the decision center precisely to that population, it allows you to be much more agile and also have greater pressure capacity when things don't work. This proposal we make is absolutely legal. It is absolutely legal in the current competence framework, it requires no constitutional reform of any kind; in fact, Catalonia and Basque Country have been managing these aid directly for many years. Since 1986, for us to come up with an idea of the years that have been managed directly. In addition to these powers, both in the case of the Generalitat de Cataluña and the Basque Government itself, they were referred to — I did not want to use that word, but I was turning it around and finding no other — by the Constitutional Court on several occasions, the most recent in 2016, with regard to the Generalitat de Cataluña, by the competent invasion of precisely that decree of the year 2012, and in the Basque case also earlier. To finish, we believe that in this House we hear too many times "this can't be done because competences aren't Welsh" or other kinds of excuses not to take on the responsibilities that we have as the political heart of this country in relation to the future of our people and, above all, of the new generations, which are being formed today at schools and, above all, at universities. We have spent our lives, many times in this Parliament, asking the Government of the State to do so, and the Spanish State to place it and urge it to make certain decisions that would improve the life of our neighbours, workers and workers in this country. In my house we were always told that we looked like priestly daughters, that we were always asking for. It comes very well with the non-legislative proposal that we have just discussed earlier. I think this amendment is going to take a step forward and start making decisions for ourselves, without having to be waiting for the Ministry of Education or the ministry of the shift to make decisions for us. We have sufficient capacity, we are adults, we can become responsible for our lives and, of course, also for the management of our bags. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u201	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President. Why can it be said that the policy of the PP government in the field of scholarships is an revolutionary and regressive policy? The PP has modified the system of general university scholarships, complicating it with the establishment of a fixed part and another variable part, which has plunged into a real uncertainty and confusion among students and their families. The cuts ordered by the Troica led to a huge tessoriada in scholarships and study aids. The educational chapter, along with health care and social services, the triad of the welfare state, suffered the greatest cuts that are remembered in history. But, not content with the cuts, not content with modifying the scholarship system, they made the situation worse with the constant delay in the income system to the benefit students. In the legislation between 2011 and 2015, the educational community repeatedly denounced delays in the payment of aid reached in the spring months; that is, almost at the end of the academic course. In this course, we are faced with the same situation. Since the beginning of 2017 complaints and complaints have grown every day. The delay in paying aid causes important economic problems for students and their families. The government's mismanagement in this matter has led many students — as has been said here — to abandon their studies in recent years or to have to compatible with precarious jobs, and even to sell supplies, to continue studies. One shows more than the current Executive is not guaranteeing universal access to education and which works best for the elite. In the current context, wage underestimation and impoverishment of the most disadvantaged social classes, high unemployment rates and difficulties in obtaining work, families with less resources are the most vulnerable link in the chain; those who have the most pitfalls to run and to cope with high academic costs. The scholarships are, therefore, a fundamental element for young people and girls to undertake higher-degree studies. In a social context as described, it turns out that the scholarship counts are entered in the middle of the course or against the end. The problem of delay in scholarships is becoming a chronic intolerable problem. We consider it very serious, from all standpoints. University education is not the only one that suffers from these delays; in FP the situation is similar. From In Marea we consider the student's requests absolutely fair, which can be divided into two parts: that the resolution and the entrance of scholarships should take place first, and that the system should be changed with fixed parts and without variable parts. So he was active until 2013; in what he changed, he went to get worse. Enhancing registrations, cuts in scholarships and aids; rising rates; tightening criteria for access; constant denial of scholarships for reasons many times more than questionable; they appear mainly inconceivable to have fewer beneficiaries, and the resulting does not give rise to doubts. Government management in the field of scholarships and study aids is involutionist, classist, regressive and does not allow universal access to education. For all this, we support the initiative of the Socialist Party of Galicia. We also find the amendment made by the Galician Nationalist Block very appropriate. And we must say, in conclusion, that, with regard to the increase in the games, today, at the first hour of the morning, if you spoke of the draft budgets that you want to approve, and you have to say bad news, very bad, ladies and gentlemen! In this same draft, it was announced in the media that people who received scholarships will be less. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mrs. Burgo, you bring a non-law proposal on a matter of clear state competence and which is adjusted, I believe, to the issues that should be dealt with in that pact by education of what yours spoke about in this House this very afternoon. They asked for consensus, and that is the framework for consensus, as mentioned in the motion not for a previous law. Apply the story in Madrid and seek consensus and support in that area, which is where it is decided. [[Applause]] There is also a second framework on which this issue is discussed, which is the general state budgets. They are also encouraged by the PSOE gentlemen, who appear in this discussion and collaborate with the approval of these budgets. And I'm sorry to tell you, Mrs. Cuña -- I know you're listening to us -- that you haven't read the budgets well, because one more year there's an increase in scholarships and an increase in education budgets. Read the budgets well, please. I will now give you the specific data in millions of euros, in billions of euros. In any case, we believe that this is the area, and we do not bring it to this Parliament. And less when we are discussing — as has already been said — in different forums this possible education pact, which I think we should achieve. As I told you, the data contradict your speech, because in 2016, and now, if you approve — let's hope that with the Socialist Party's vote — these new budgets in Madrid, there will again be a historical record, which is more than 30% of the money Mr. Zapatero put for scholarships. More than 30%! Take note, 1,400 million euros. And besides, there are a lot more people. Target data, no decrease. In 2015-2016, it was 323,904 pockets. In 2010-2011, the Socialist Party did not reach 270,000, it was 268,000, 50,000 less than with the Socialist Party. I'm sorry to have to contradict the Ministry's objective data. In addition, I'm telling you this year, the budget plan that you've seen today is increasing these aids and increasing the budget of the Ministry of Education by 1.7. I encourage them to vote in favour, because those over 16,000 galleys who come every year enjoying these scholarships may so enjoy them if they have those budgets. In any case, they also talked about late scholarships. Do you know that one of the Greek universities sent the data in mid-December? It's hard, if you send the data to the universities at the end of December, that you can pay those scholarships first. In any case, they're already paying, as you well know. They were also talking about the criterion, whether it's just economical, or whether there are also some criteria for academic performance. As you well know, the Supreme has just reassessed the legality of these measures for the third time. Obviously, the economic criterion must be the main, first, so that no one is excluded from the university study on economic matters. But I also think it is necessary to ask for a certain academic performance linked to these scholarships. In any case, I understand that they have different criteria. We heard all week discussing your two candidates for the General Secretariat who were defending counter-proposals for scholarships, both Mr. Sánchez and Mrs. Díaz. Today we hope to find out which of them are in favour, but they've been discussing this subject all week with different criteria. It's okay. What I'd like to remember is that Galicia is doing her homework well, even if they don't like it, in helping university students. We have — as we always remember because it is true — the lowest university rates in all of Spain. We also have a supplementary programme. It's a lot of action. They complement these aids with the payment of fees; special scholarships are granted: Master's scholarships, there are others for career end prizes, supplementary scholarships for Erasmus, mobility aids and scholarships for stays during the summer to study languages. These autonomic calls are made with rigour, with discretion, and no one stays out of these aids from those who ask for them, and no college student is excluded for economic reasons, because he's working rigorously on this line. We believe that the framework should be addressed in these forums that are already set up in Madrid to deal with the education pact. In addition, as the data reflect, each year more funds are allocated and the number of purses receive them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u205	We shall vote against this proposal. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u206	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the support of the Galego Nationalist Block and En Marea. Mrs. Rodil, of course we agree to add your amendment. Besides, we look very familiar, I think we have to go there and improve, of course, the text that we present. So I thank you, just like En Marea's support. Mr. Fernández, let's say that by putting yourself here and verbalizing the reality you want it to be, that reality doesn't appear. You can verbalize whatever you want here, but that doesn't make that true. [[Applause]] And it's not true. First of all, the consequences of all the changes made by the PP government are not what I say, nor the data, are data from the Rector Conference, which you don't like, I don't know, but are published data from the Rector Conference and are data published by a university professor as famous and recognized as Hernández Armenteros. I mean, I'm not the one who says it, Mr. Fernández, tell him the university experts. On the other hand, of course the pact, but this is going to be part of the pact, of course it is. We need to change this whole system, mainly because this system — as the Rectors Conference said — excludes many students for access to university or further studies. You say that a university in Galicia sent the data late. Mecachis in the sea! And that's why we have 200,000 companies at change.org, because a university in Galicia sent the data wrong! It's just that we're important, really. [[Applause]] That's why all Spanish pockets are saying they have to pay the floor, the light, the water... but it turns out the Ministry doesn't give them the purse, which is small, but they deserve it. You didn't explain to me why we have to accept that the Greek students have lost, thanks to these modifications of Minister Wert, almost 30% of the stock market. We don't know why it happens. Look, Mr. Fernández -- because I have to finish -- this is what we have to deal with here, and we have to deal with it here for a reason, Mr. Fernández, because I think the Board is to defend the interests of the Greek citizens, and also those of the Greek students, and you're not to blindly obey Rajoy, you know? He's about to defend that Greek students have the scholarships they deserve and so they can get to college. And I don't know if you haven't heard what I said, but with the Galician board scholarships they only pay 3 out of every 10 students; i.e., whoever has to pay floor, light and water because it's arranged as much as possible, because only 3 out of every 10. Don't you think something strange should happen with the scholarships when only 3 out of 10 applicants get the license fee? It doesn't work, Mr. Fernández, it's a retrograde, elitist system. Do you remember when Minister Wert said there were university students left in Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u208	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u209	Do you also consider that and that's why you don't think there should be more scholarships? Because it turns out they're up; that's right, they're up for the families with less economic possibilities, because those of high economic possibilities, yeah, they don't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Public Society Development Soelo Empresarial del Atlántico, S.L. new seeding processes with bonus prices that make the industrial polygon of Vimianzo more competitive and initiatives for its promotion, as well as the start of the procedures to achieve the transfer to Xestur of all industrial soil offers in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u211	There is an amendment tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u212	Mr. Casal has the floor to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u213	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. The management and development of industrial soil and services in Galicia is assumed by two public entities: Xestur, dependent on the Infrastructure and Living Council, and the Atlantic Business Soil Society, participated and managed by the Ministry of Development through Sepes. Most of the polygons are promoted and managed by Xestur, but there is in our country 18 initiative and management of Atlantic business soil. There's evidence of discoordination between the two entities, and we find ourselves with planning situations and prices that have no justification and that produce competitive disadvantages between polygons and others close to them depending on which entity promotes them. It is essential to develop an industrial soil map in Galicia that helps to analyse and plan business policies and implement strategic decisions on the development of new industrial soils and coordination of existing ones, linked to an industrial plan for Galicia that is truly coherent. Irresponsible decisions should never be made again on industrial soil based on electoralism or on donations to local landowners without any sense and who only claimed to bury millions and millions of euros. The way should be to achieve a single management of industrial soil through the society that already manages it in Galicia, as it is Xestur. It has to be an instrument that facilitates industrial expansion throughout Galicia, favouring areas with less growth and with worse access to communication infrastructures. But, as we shall see in the case described below, the situation is totally contrary to these objectives mentioned in the preceding paragraph. We refer to the industrial polygon of Vimianzo — to greet the mayor and the part of the corporation, who accompany us today — promoted by the company Soelo Empresarial del Atlantico, dependent on the Ministry of Development. This polygon was part of the compensation on the Death Coast for the Prestige disaster. Fifteen years later the polygon is not fulfilling its objectives. One of the causes is the lack of direct connection to the highway of the Coast of Death, another commitment by the governments of the state and the Union. On a recent visit to the Infrastructure Advisor's area, he undertook to develop a branch of access to the polygon that would, among other things, prevent the passage through the centre of Vimianzo from heavy traffic coming from the Camarinas area. We hope that as soon as possible the Councillor will carry out this commitment here, at the parliamentary level, with precise deadlines, dates and budgets. Another of the causes - and in this case the main - that the Vimianzo polygon and other similar ones, such as that of Malpica and many others throughout the country, fails to guarantee the objectives of industrial development, in this case in the Vimianzo area, and that it would also have an immediate possible solution if it wanted to be done, is price discrimination with respect to other nearby polygons, such as, in this case, that of Carballo, promoted by Xestur. The plots for industrial use in the Vimianzo polygon have a high price compared to those of Carballo ranging from 40% to 90%. In the case of industrial-third-party mixed-use plots, or directly tertiary, prices in Vimianzo exceed more than 100% those in Carballo. On the other hand, the defects in the construction of the Vimianzo polygon - which seems to be that the chosen place is not the right place - make up extra costs for demos, containment walls, etc., which can reach 40 euros/square metre. This price difference situation has no justification for promotional and market costs. The logic, really, would be the opposite, for having the Carballo polygon was close to a much more populated urban and comarcal concentration and direct access to an infrastructure like the Coruña-Carballo highway. Therefore, the origin of this competitive disadvantage is the different commercial strategy and cost imputation of Atlantic Business Soelo with respect to Xestur. We believe that this Parliament cannot go back to an area like Vimianzo and the whole of Soneira, with enormous potential in its agri-food industry and many others that develop in the area, and resign themselves to seeing all its industries march to other areas because it is impossible to develop competitively in its territory. In the face of all that we expose, we believe that the Government of Galicia has to intervene urgently in order to ensure that at least the prices per square meter of the two polygons are balanced -- we refer to Vimianzo and Carballo -- and that we avoid the competitive disadvantage in this case of Vimianzo. - I'm sorry, I'm wearing a fucking flu and... To this end, we present the following non-legislative proposal: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to make the necessary managements before the Ministry of Development to instruct the Atlantic Business Land to develop new parcel sales processes in the Vimianzo polygon at high prices that make it competitive and, at least, similar to those in the Carballo Polygon; urges the Ministry of Development, through Atlantic Business Land, to develop initiatives to promote the Vimianzo Polygon, by, among other things, conducting studies of possible industrial and tertiary specialization of it and to promote the possibility of establishing collaborative economic initiatives that make it attractive to the companies of the Costa da Morte; and, finally, to initiate the procedures to achieve the transfer of all industrial land offers in Xestur, avoiding its current dissolutions between its promotions and those undertaken by the Xesto ministry of transfer; An alternative to this last proposal that we could accept as an amendment, if it facilitates its approval by this Parliament, could be the maintenance of property as it is in the Atlantic business society, transferring only management to be able to coordinate it organically with Xestur. We will also accept, as it could not otherwise be, the amendment of the People's Party's Addendum, which extends this recommendation of price bonus to all polygons belonging to the Atlantic business soil throughout the country. We are sure that this logical demand for the industrial development of Vimianzo will be taken into account by this Parliament and we hope that the corresponding management of the Government of the Union to the Ministry of Development will result as soon as possible so that this situation will not be maintained in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u214	Thank you, Mr. Casal. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr. Casal, it is true that Junta since 2015 has started an industrial soil selling policy with important bonuses, which is giving some fruit and results in some municipalities, such as Carballo's, for example, would have to say highly satisfactory, at least, and with bonuses ranging from 30% to 50% -- Carballo's, in particular, 50% -- and among those polygons, for example, we have the fortune -- I, who are from Lugo -- to say that the Gandaras, Lugo's, has that 50%, and it's also another one of the industrial polygons or business parks with great success. There's another series of them scattered all over Galicia. Look, at the beginning of this year, the 2017 competition came out, with more than 1,400,000 square meters on offer and 441 plots; a bonus that goes, as I say, up to 50%, and even with another sales system, to get to the purchase of soils that are owned by the Greek entrepreneurs and those who want to be installed in Galicia, which is the acquisition of surface rights, which, in case they are already dependent on the Galego Institute of Vivenda and Solo, are already Xestur, because they can buy it from 1.5% of the selling price; that is, very, very advantageous prices, and at most 3.5% of the selling price. We'll talk about data and prices, if I have time later, compared to other plants. It must also be said that you were talking about a policy of assembly of companies on collaborative issues, and it must be said that, in this sense, the Councillory of Economics, Industry and Employment has invested in creating a Welsh network of business enterprises, a series of accelerators throughout Galicia, with 12 million euros in past exercises, where there are more than 500 approved projects; specifically in the Costa da Morte area there is an accelerator like this, which is a coworking space that was created in Cabana de Bergantinos, therefore in the Costa da Morte area. For this year it has planned an investment of 18 million euros in social economy. It is planned to support the creation of around 500 new companies like this. But as for the proposal you put forward, you have to say that what you prove with this proposal you do is that you have total and absolute ignorance of what is Galicia's industrial soil system. He said in the explanatory statement, and he said again here, that there were two entities in Galicia that were the ones that were managing the business soil: Xestur - and it is true that Xestur is one of them and perhaps the most important - and Atlantic business soil. Look, forget about Sepes, forget about the Vigo Free Zone, forget about the Port Authority of Vigo, Plisán - nothing more and nothing less - forget about the Pontevedra Deputy, with several industrial polygons, forget about Suplusa, in Lugo, through the Provincial Deputy, forget about the Town Councils and you forget even about the business ground of private companies. Therefore, he has total and absolute ignorance. In that sense, it must be said that at the third point that you put, that the Board assumes, through Xestur, the soil that has the SEA, listen to what we can't achieve with this is that it unites for nothing at all in a single station what is Galicia's business soil. That, on the one hand. And on the other hand, what you are offering us in this case In Marea is a de-investment of the state in Galicia. Listen, 85% of the capital with which the State participates in the SEA are investments that the State makes in Galicia developing industrial soil. Are you telling me to give up that? Man, I want to understand you don't, but you're telling me. On the other hand, you don't seem to like Junta blessing the industrial polygons that you have on your property in the rest of Galicia, including that of Carballo. Home!, to me it seems to me that Carballo is a great news, and I would like that same news to be for all Galicia and, in particular, for the Coast of Death. Don't forget that you bring an initiative here exclusively for Vimianzo. What about Laracha, what about Malpica, what about Cee and Walls? Am I not from the Death Coast? You have no right? No, Junta, of course, is working on the board of directors of the SEA and is working precisely to get those same conditions that she has and that she enjoys today the Carballo polygon to enjoy all the polygons of the SEA in Galicia and, of course, those of the Costa da Morte region. That's what Joina is working on. And, look, we can talk about management even since the mayor. I greet the mayor, too. I'm glad you're brother, because I didn't know he was here. I'm going to invite you to do it like the mayor of Laracha and the mayor of Malpica and to approach Madrid to the offices to speak with the CEO of the SEA, who may help manage and get those bonuses. Some mayors are moving. Of course, you are, at best, more pendant than the acronyms -- to see why it is presented, if BNG, if In Marea or if it ends up getting dizzy -- and maybe that's why it doesn't do its job. But, look, that's important. [[Murmurs.]] I would also invite you to see that at the price level — what happens is that you don't know that in the Pontevedra Parliament, for example, manages industrial soil —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u216	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u217	I'm done, Mr. President. That is, they ask for and help reduce the price, for example, of Barro-Meis, where it comes out at a minimum price of 99 euros, when the board has it at Ponte Caldelas at 55 euros. Those are the differences in industrial policy that makes one party and the other. I'm very glad of any way that In Marea joins and applauds the policies she's making in industrial development at Junta de Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u218	Thank you, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u219	I would like, if possible, to vote on points. And I like him to accept, in addition, as he adds — no problem — our amendment. And I'd ask you for a point vote, if that's possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u220	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again, good afternoon. There was a time when a venerable lord landed in Galicia to get this evil country out of ignorance and misery. It was this, our original course, a non-industrialized territory, with an overcrowding, excessive and decimononic population that broke out all the statistics of modernity. And, of course, willing to change it to Junta, and to wash our faces, it shot with a first measure. The premise was that if each county made its own industrial polygon, it would immediately be in the industry by spontaneous generation. But it wasn't like that. Don Manuel—"the prophet"—has not happened, and at most we have come to spend large amounts of money and to design, urbanize and prepare almost one polygon per municipality, and we have enough. Magic fertilizer and non-agricultural industries failed, the field was depopulated, and we achieved a population level in the primary sector according to what the books gave to modern countries. But industrialization, did you see it? Since the BNG, of course, we agree with both the argumentation and the operative part of the proposal not the law of En Marea. Basically, we have to focus on the need for integrated management through a single, non-aligned, Welsh entity. Clearly, the current model where two organisms live creates dysfunctions. The horizon must be that a single public body — the Xestur — is the body competent to manage Galician industrial soil. So, at least in the first step, there is a need for coordination mechanisms between Atlantic Business Land and Xestur to go looking at a scenario where the first one integrates into Xestur. On the Atlantic business floor you can hardly carry out your mission if, like Vimianzo, the prices offered by the plots are totally disproportionate and therefore non-competitive. In this sense, the demands contained in the non-legislative proposal that it presents in Marea are fully insufficient both in what it has to do with — focusing on the Vimianzo polygon — at the subsidised and competitive prices, as with the promotion of it, as in a more structural way, by channeling through Xestur the management of industrial soil. In this sense, the demands contained in the non-legislation proposal presented are fully assumed. Finally, I wonder what we're going to do now with all that ordered, urbanized and empty industrial soil. This is an incognito that we will solve another day — if the gods permit it. But by the way, we are increasingly aware of the enormous interest the People's Party has in the Coast of Death. Some fifteen days ago he was debating here about the bus from there; now he's going to be a corridor. Where I said, say Diego; country, country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u223	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome, mayor. The Socialist Party will support this non-law proposal primarily motivated by the fact that we share the view that Galicia needs balance in economic management and in the location of its industrial and online soils, in addition, with the initiative already presented by this group in the Senate and with respect to this same industrial park in Vimianzo. The commitment made to the Costa da Morte area after the Prestige disaster, and in order to address the economic problem arising in this area, has led to the promotion of business parks like Vimianzo's. But indeed — and we fully agree with the proposed group — it must be supported by the implementation of companies in the area, and it must be done by starting with a price policy that makes it competitive and attractive. Knowing that it is not currently one of the most favourable geographical areas at infrastructure level, if it makes sense that the offer of subsidies or compensatory measures is being proposed that make it more attractive for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, as Xestur does for the polygons and parks that depend on their direct management. We see that the government group is proposing an amendment that supports this vision. What we don't understand is why he doesn't advocate for the unique management of all business parks and take the necessary measures to ensure that the game of ground supply doesn't have to go through the will of past or future demands to the Atlantic Soil Business Society, manager of parks that are not within the competence of Xestur. It's in the hands of the Government to initiate proceedings to change that situation. Management in the hands of the same administration always allows strategic decisions in a coordinated and intentional manner. And in the industrial case, it would allow the territory and the people linked to it in a preferred place, and compensate and support the different regions, avoiding competition between them. This weekend the Strategic Map of the industrial soils of Galicia was published, classifying them by the areas of greater demand of the territory of Galicia. This private study shows how the Atlantic Strip is much more sensitive to the deployment of new industries. And the point is that these areas of maximum concentration and which are likely to continue to develop, because they are more attractive to investors, are clearly linked to the axis of AP-9. But while in the south as are the Morrazo Peninsula, Barba or O Salnés, they are among the most demanding, attracts attention as in the north, throughout the Costa da Morte area, there is no reference to any industrial area of the area as of interest to investors. It seems clear that the lack of road infrastructure and the lack of investment incentives, among other things, make this area a little bit attractive. The recently announced expansion of the Costa Morte bus — which will still be bided in 2018 — can help to bridge this isolation. But it's true that not doing so with the guarantees of a broken track will not help to increase the trust of entrepreneurs, as well as leaving the object of study suspended and the intention of making the connection of 1.5 kilometers from the corridor to Vimianzo's business park; issues, therefore, that put the viability of it more at risk. There's also a lot of talk in this House about the retention of talent in Galicia. Among other measures, it is this: to make it easier for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in Greece to have easy access to soils where they develop their activity and to establish work centres to avoid not only escaping from them but all the jobs that involve the implementation of their business ideas. The reality is that there are some business parks that need urgent enlargements because of high demand and others that are totally incapable of attracting companies. Something, therefore, is failing in planning and managing industrial soil in Galicia. And, to show, what we well know about the flight of companies to Portugal, which would deserve another debate. By analysing the prices for polygons managed by Xestur directly, you can actually see how there is the option of opting for bonus prices until November 2017, with a 50% reduction offer at the official price in some polygons, such as Carballo's, and 30% elsewhere. If in Vimianzo the square meter is announced at 76 and 90 euros — and I give these prices because for four days, the 25% bonus has ceased to be in force — the reality is that in Carballo they are actually offered at even 30 square meters. The result is that in Vimianzo, of the 108 plots, only 9 were sold; and in Carballo, of the 128 plots, 60 were sold and 9 reserved. We're in front of 53% against 8.3% of plot adjudication. This obvious competition between parks and polygons and in nearby geographic areas confirms the situation we understand shouldn't be taking place. It therefore calls for the coordination of business soil policy. In the meantime, it is urgent to ask the SEA company, from Atlantic Business soil, to create new tools and strategies for selling the soils that it manages to contribute to support and not to curb the economic development of the areas where the polygons are settled by it managed; the question that should be — we repeat — coordinated with the sales policy of Xestur. But this measure, which we understand is a temporary patch, should begin by starting to work on the transfer of land management competences entirely to Xestur, or to the agency that was created for that purpose, to plan and coordinate the sale of soil in Galicia, avoiding unfair competition between territories. And that is so important not only for industrial policy but for others who depend intrinsically on it, such as labour policy, demographic and social. We therefore fully support the non-law proposal put forward by the En Marea group. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u225	Well, first of all, thanks to the fellow from the Popular Group, who gave me a candy and solved the problem... Well, it became clear to me that, in your opinion, we have no idea of industrial planning, it's obvious. It's totally obvious. And it's also obvious that, seeing many of the industrial polygons scattered throughout Galicia, any citizen of any Galician people can see the solvency of the policies that you've developed all these years. Clearly, let's go; it's more than clear to see how well-coordinated, well-planned and justifiable are the industrial plans that support them. [[Applause]] Obviously, there's no more to say, just walk through many of the polygons you've promoted to see that we actually have no idea, and you, on the other hand, have a master's in industrial soil planning. It's also obvious that there are many more industrial soil initiatives in Galicia, that's pervading, but that's getting out of the tangent. We're talking about something concrete and you're telling me about Plisán, about the Pontevedra Deputy... I know it's a dialectic tactic to get out of the subject, get out of the tangent and not talk about what to talk about. We refer to coordinated actions of a public nature in Galicia, which are essentially those of Xestur and those of the Atlantic Business Floor. And what really seems to me — that I have never listened to, I think, in the five months that we've been here — is that the government group eludes the responsibility of the Government that it supports to defend the interests of all the Greeks and suggests to the mayors that they go on their own to Madrid to see if they solve their problems there. Truly, this is amazing, I've never listened to it — I think — in this House, and I think it's denying the reality of what the self-government is and what their responsibility is. I don't understand how they can have those arguments. Perhaps he didn't have time to prepare the answer and it's a new way out of the tangent, talking about things that, in this case, are even insulting to his own Government. Management coordination is absolutely essential, and denying it makes no sense. Management needs to be coordinated. That does not mean that the Government does not continue to invest in Galicia, let's go! or that to plan, coordinate and develop road policy, for example, in Galicia since the Galician Union, that implies that the state will not invest in Galicia. So the Galician Union couldn't do anything, it couldn't manage anything, it couldn't coordinate anything, because that would mean that the state funds wouldn't get to Galicia. So, please go to the specific issue, to the issue that really affects the entrepreneurs of the Death Coast, in this case the entrepreneurs of Vimianzo, and many more, as you say, but you have to talk about concrete things and then spread them to many other matters, and so we'll talk about things that really affect citizenship, which affect the company and the development of productive tissues. They approve this non-law proposal and urge their Government to ensure that this coordination is effective, and that immediately the industrial soil auctions in Vimianzo — and in other polygons, of course — are developed immediately and at similar prices. No advantages are requested, at least the prices are requested to be similar...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u226	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u227	...and they're not, like at the moment, in case differences of 100% with respect to other polygons that are 15 kilometers away from what we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u228	Thank you, Mr. Casal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez and six other Members, on the elaboration by the Galician Union of a programme to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the declaration by the European Union of the Way of Santiago as the first European cultural itinerary in which the other European itineraries of the Council of Europe take part
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u229	Two amendments were tabled to this proposal: one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and one from the En Marea Parliamentary Group. [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of its Mrs Concepción Burgo López, through her spokesman and in the wake of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this proposal not of law.Amendment of amendment.Where it says: "...rememoration program...", she must say: "...a program, with the collaboration of the Town Councils and specifically with the Town Hall of Santiago de Compostela de Commemoration"...Addition of a new paragraph bis]] "Bis) The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to request the Ministry of Development to submit, as soon as possible, a timetable for carrying out all the buried steps that are necessary throughout the Way of Santiago to ensure the safety of the pilgrims."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u230	To formulate the proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Antón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u231	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. On 23 October 1987 the Council of Europe, in an emotional act with international impact, here, in Santiago de Compostela, declared the Way of Santiago as the first European cultural itinerary. This was a turning point for the Way because, on the one hand, it was the culmination of a process, and on the other hand, I assumed the beginning of a new stage for the route Xacobea and hence for Galicia and the city of Santiago. He said it was the culmination of a process of recognition of the Jacobean route as a collapse of European construction, of its identity, through the common cultural heritage, claimed by researchers of the Jacobean fact, by intellectuals, by politicians all over the world and, as it does not, by Spain as well. Not in vain, the Way of Santiago was the protagonist of one of the major exhibitions that took place in Belgium on the occasion of Europalia 1985. Spain, a guest country, wanted to show the full potential of our country with the cock of its entry into European communities, and the Spanish Government chose the Way of Santiago to appear before Europe. The importance of the Path and the success of this exposure is reflected in an anecdote. Three days after the opening of the exhibition, more than 400 requests for visits by groups and groups were already fixed. While the heart of Europe was recognized on the Way of Santiago, Elías Balinas Sampedro, the parish priest of the Cebreiro, began untiring work, began a journey without going back. From Roncesvales to Santiago marks with yellow arrows the trail of the Way, promoting its cleansing and recovery, and creating a network of collaborators that would derive from the associations of friends of the Way of Santiago, a ribbon that ended and culminated in the Assembly of Jaca, of which it is also now fulfilling thirty years and established the principle of the present pilgrimages. "I am preparing a great invasion," Elijah Balinas replied to the Civil Guard's request when, near a border crossing, they asked him what the meaning of those yellow arrows was. And he wasn't wrong. Civil society, public administrations, supranational institutions, understood that the Way was an example for the somewhat convulsed situation of the end of the 20th century, marked by the overcoming of geopolitical blocks in Europe itself with the fall of the Berlin Wall, and the growing globalization in we have economic and social, with greater mobility as a result of the opening of borders, of advances in the media and installation in the daily life of so-called new technologies. This statement by the Way of Santiago as the first European cultural itinerary was the starting point for the development of a programme launched by the Council of Europe, based on the appreciation of culture and the promotion of cultural tourism with the creation of thematic networks, with the common heritage as the central axis. The Way represents the values that inspired the creation of the Council of Europe itself, as they are with regard to human rights or democracy, but also the foundations of the Institute of Cultural Itineraries: diversity, cultural democracy, mutual understanding and cross-border exchanges; a institute that was created — as you all know — in 1998 as a technical agency to accompany the promoters of the already declared itineraries and to contribute to developing new routes for their certification. To be a European cultural itinerary, in the words of the former director of the institute, Michel Thomas-Penette, is characterized, firstly, by being a great European issue, capable of raising fundamental issues: identity, relationship between cultures, memory, theme from which one or more networks of collaborators give knowledge and organize a set of projects. It's about reaching cultural and tourist products rooted in precise territories, accessible to most and with a discourse of interpretation and mediation that contributes to a better dialogue and better reciprocal understanding of Europeans, bringing together their widely dispersed memories. But an itinerary is something alive, which from knowledge, interpretation and enjoyment of that past must serve to build together the future. That is what happened with the Way following this statement by Santiago by the Council of Europe, which calls on the authorities, institutions and citizens to perform different tasks. For example, the identification of the roads of the European territory; the establishment of a system of signification of the main points of the itinerary; the development of coordinated actions of restoration and heritage value; the launching of cultural animation programmes in order to rediscover this historic heritage; the promotion of exchanges between the different peoples and cities along the Way; and the encouragement, within these exchanges, of contemporary cultural artistic creation and so on. The Council of Europe itself organizes congresses and other activities to promote all these objectives, and creates an image, a corporate identification manual of the Way that we all recognize today. An idealized vision of the yellow-colored old age shell, like the yellow arrow of our friend Elijah Balina, and the blue of the flag of Europe. The Greek Government of the time, understanding the message and recognizing the opportunity it meant, was able to gather this idea and shape it in the administrative and governmental context, creating a management unit for this purpose: the Society of Management of the Jacobean, beginning a plan that met with all and each of the sections of Santiago's declaration and some, such as the creation of the road shelter network, thus recovering one of the strengths of the same: hospitality. A plan that had an objective, the celebration of the Holy Year of 1993, with a renewed vision: the Xacobeo, following the star of the great events held in our country, such as the Barcelona Olympics or the Seville Universal Exhibition. Xacobeo, like these events, has been influenced by the involvement of the Spanish Government, the creation of an inter-administrative body that is still in force today, as is the Xacobeo Council, where they are cited — as you all know — by the autonomous communities through which the Way and the Central Administration speak. The very essence of the Way, the values in which it settles and intends to spread, together with the recurring celebration of the holy years, makes the Way something unique, unique, which was referendumed after the success of 1993, in the holy years of 1999, 2004 and 2010. The Path reaches the recognition of the World Heritage Site in 1993. In 2004 the Prince of Asturias da Concordia was awarded the award, as well as the title of Grand Cultural Itinerary for the Council of Europe itself this same year, who would like to highlight in this way that the Way is the capitalized route a primer inter paris. There's no other route in the world with more recognition. The Way of Santiago was chosen at its own time by the Council of Europe to illustrate European identity, but today it transcends this very reality to become the international symbol of tolerance, as regards diversity, being religious, cultural, political. The Way is the meeting space between men and women around the world, in the search and experience of fundamental humanist values, such as solidarity, freedom, tolerance, sacrifice, generosity. The Way is a reality of social cohesion, where citizens from all over the world relate to each other and to a cultural and natural heritage, resulting in an exchange of personal and collective experiences that fill this path with renewed life. The feedback from the Way itself through the experiences of every day of the pilgrims, whatever their motivation, and the local population, strengthen their reason for being. Today, thirty years later, Santiago's statement remains perfectly vigilant, and we believe that from Galicia, from Santiago de Compostela, the commemoration of this last anniversary is an exceptional occasion to claim the spirit of Santiago's Way for a Europe that lives immersed in a crucial moment to address its future and its role in the world. This anniversary must also be, in our opinion, a moment of reflection on the network of declared cultural itineraries that travel across Europe, for its management, its role, the existing collaborative formulas and how to cope with a shared future. Currently there are 32 declared routes. Spain participates in 22, and Galicia, in addition to the Way, is part of nine cultural itineraries of such varied themes as the Vikings and Normans, the network of Cluniacens sites, the European itineraries of the Jewish heritage or the European route of thermal heritage and thermal cities, among others. To visualize these itineraries, and to give them a boost in their knowledge and recognition, is an opportunity that we should take advantage of, because, ultimately, we are sinking into our own roots, into our own history, and into the history that unites us with other peoples and people. The membership of the large networks of cultural and natural tourism that promote values of cultural democracy, of freedom, of understanding must also be understood as a competitive advantage to highlight itself and differentiate from other cultural products. Being different is enriching. That is why we put forward this non-law proposal, in the understanding that no one doubts that it is an opportunity to revive the idea of a compromised Europe. That's why I want to take advantage of and close this intervention with the same words as it closes and ends Santiago's statement: "that the faith that has encouraged pilgrims throughout history, and that has brought us together in a common aspiration over national differences and interests, inspires us today as well, and particularly youth. going along these paths to build a society based on tolerance, with respect to others, freedom and solidarity." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. Go ahead, Mrs Anton, which we share the importance of, of course, that the Way is a European itinerary, in addition to all that you have just appointed, because it is not the only one. And that's also very important, that Galicia is present in many others. We fully agree with the importance which it has and which it is still having. What if I have to confess to you is that I have this tendency of the People's Party to commemorate everything... i.e. here the only cultural policy that appears — and you can see, you will see how not the deception, the agenda, for example, of the next Committee 4th, of Culture, and the proposals they make — are commemorations. Here we commemorate everything. We also commemorate every year, because it used to be commemorated from 25 to 25, now we're going for 30; I imagine we're celebrating again within 10. [[Applause]] Of course, this is a little empty of content. If you brought here an impulse to the Government saying that you have to commemorate and do this and the other one, we would still have something to discuss, but this is the commemoration of the commemoration. It was very nice your speech, but this would serve to get the declaration of cultural itinerary. Right now... I'm sorry to tell you this, that from my point of view it's very good, you have a story about the very elaborate, very nice and very elaborate road: European identity, tolerance, solidarity, humanist values, history that unites us, committed Europe, symbol of culture, but then, at the time of truth, what the Union does is treat it as one more tourist product. That's what's for you, a tourist product, where you add pilgrims. The more pilgrims, the better. And then, this about identity, tolerance and solidarity, because, at last, it stays for another moment. On the one hand, in order to make this commemoration, which we will support, we will remember!, we will have to take into account the councils, because many Star Paths and others, but it runs through the earth, and then it speaks also by the Town Councils, with which we must take into account the Town Councils to make those commemorations. Then it would also be very good that, in addition to commemorating, we have a path in better conditions than we have. It would be very good to commemorate, but besides to commemorate, to see if we do something else, for example, by acting on the problems of the pilgrims' safe roads, which you know – and you know it perfectly – that there are many. The Association of Friends of the Path of Lugo, for example, prepared a report in which only in the province of Lugo identified 75 dangerous tranches. And I also have to remind you of the promises of Development, which in 2015 presented a project to create buried steps. That's great! We were going to create a lot of buried steps in 2015. We're in 2017, and buried steps we don't have. I think we'll want to commemorate a safe path, basically. Besides, there was a budget that wasn't spent. As there was a budget in Madrid, in the Government of Madrid budgets, in both 2015 and 2016, 600,000 euros one year and 700,000 others, to rehabilitate goods of cultural and heritage interest. None of this has been spent and none of it has protested, either, because it doesn't matter at all. Heritage goods, which others help to this path, do not matter at all. Besides, we could add how signage is, poor conservation, inappropriate actions that are being reported by associations... there are many problems on the way, but if we have to commemorate, we also commemorate. I call attention for something else to be done, but by the Way. What they never forget is to help an entity. There's practically no money for anything, the Way has problems, but, yes, Galician Tourism has just given the Catholic Church 300,000 euros for such important actions as the Christian Hosting Congress that will carry out the Church. I think this is the spirituality you see on your way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u235	Several considerations. Obviously, the Santiago Road in 1987 was named an important itinerary. We think it's important. But speaking of dates, it was also European cultural heritage on 17 May 1993. On December 11, 1993, the Way will achieve its highest universalism by UNESCO declaration. So dates can help us, but there are a lot of questions that raise their exposure. First, since UNESCO is part of the Way, UNESCO is an intergovernmental body that has a universal spirit and wants to safeguard the heritage not only of Europe, it is a world institution. So, yes, you have to boost that consciousness that unites us, not what separates us, but respecting the difference, it's very good. It is about intercultural dialogue, that is the spirit of cooperation, creating ethical references, that authorities also have responsibility for care and how these resources are managed, really at the highest level. We have several roads in Galicia, the most known, the French Way. It's very important, secondly, the Portuguese Way, most unknown. You have to see how these roads are, as people know them, because in the plan -- I'd really like you to tell us who designed the plan, if you talked to the people of culture, to the people of the Way, or only to Tourism -- there's a crucial question: the Way has a historical value, the Way has an artistic value, that's the essential value, and what you're doing is shifting the balance towards a commercialist value and towards a speculation, to a use of the Way for self-interest. More and more are being privatized to the shelters. With that immense obsession of privatizing everything, until the shelters! It says in the master plan that excellence must be in caring for pilgrims. Okay, perfect, let's look after some tourists, other people who actually make the Way for different reasons. So, some people can't, in many cases, visit places of the Romanesque because there are no keys, because they don't know who has them, because there are no schedules... it's quite disastrous. Within this plan, the strategic lines are in very clear and very necessary theory. We have to plan, we have to coordinate. It seems that there was for this plan EUR 56,119,805. It's a curious amount. It seems that there have been a lot of disturbances and disturbances in areas of the Way, it seems to be all due to the particular or commercial tourist benefit. Scientific and cultural value cannot be expolated by commercial interests. The Way Forum, which unites thirty-one people who love culture and defend the Way, has denounced a lot of this abandonment. I had the patience to look at the law, and in the law there is a very serious lack, which is, by setting an example -- because this gives not for five minutes, but for hours -- "The use of the road for the traffic rotated, outside of the supposed provision of article 10.2 of the Road Protection Act, is considered a very serious infringement." I would ask the defender of this proposal to do something creative, which also counts with the people of culture, if they really want to commemorate; to give more importance to historical and cultural value and less to tourist value. We make a substitution amendment because we believe that what this Parliament wants to do has to be with public money and must be lay proposals, and what it wants to do is the Catholic Church.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u236	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u237	There are moments of the Way, places of the Way, which are non-Catholic myths, and people have a right too. Our amendment therefore says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Union to draw up a secular programme to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the Santiago de Compostela Declaration as the first European cultural itinerary that counts with the participation of the world of the country's culture and a commission of control." We already know that there is a commission, but it must not be very transparent because, looking for results data, they cannot be found. "At the same time that he collects actions of recognition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u238	End it, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u239	...of the other European cultural itineraries of the Council of Europe, of those participating in Galicia." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u240	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. The Galician Nationalist Block Group has the floor for Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u241	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. There are issues that have already been reflected in previous interventions. It is indisputable the importance of a phenomenon such as the Santiago Way in which tourism in our country and in the number of visitors is a very important claim. We understand that work for its promotion is important, and we are not going to logically oppose what is formulated in this proposal, which is the commemoration of the cultural itinerary, and we understand and want to take advantage of the intervention to make some consideration of what we have already done. We understand that the importance of the Way of Santiago is outstanding — as we have said — but I also have challenges for the future in this regard. On the one hand, destabilize what comes to be the visit to this city and to the other towns and points of our country through the Way, which may be through visits, well to carry out these different paths, well visits also to an important volume of visitors who know the city, who know the name of our country through the Way, and decide to visit us in some other way. We understand that we have to bet for distancing, and then it would be interesting if all the issues that the Galician Board decides to implement around this anniversary, or what it considers, go a little bit along that line. Also in the line of decentralization is of great importance — you know it well for your relationship with this city — the importance it has in Santiago de Compostela's economic movements, but it's no less also what it can have in the entire region and what it could also have as an entry door to Galicia and for the knowledge from here other visiting points of our country. So we understand that decentralizing is also an important goal, as well as diversifying experiences in that sense. It seems important to us to insist on the need to value other cultural itineraries. So to say, in a somewhat prosaic way, the Way of Santiago is already well known even though it did not have that extra recognition which implies this cultural itinerary, but there are some others that are more unknown, as it may be all the itinerary that has to do with the Viking and Norman culture, all that has to do with the Path of prehistoric Rupestic Art and all that can be valued around it, or what it has to do with it also, going more for my land, with the thermal heritage. So we understand that it is important to focus on it in that sense. On the other hand, we have been in the afternoon of very much mysticism, religiousism and positive values, but we do not want to miss the opportunity to point out that we also consider it important not to focus on everything that has to do with the promotion of Santiago's Way always in the most spiritual and religious part. We understand that it is an important part, that it is there, and that it also attracts visits that are often not affected by that confession but that they are added by the cultural interest that wakes up, but also we must not lose sight of other types of tourism, from this heritage to the gastronomy, etc., and other motivations, such as the mere knowledge of the natural environment and others. And since you mentioned the Berlin Wall, since we talked about so many values regarding religion and so on, we understand that the Way of Santiago is an element that deepened those positive values, but it would also be good for all institutions, not only this Parliament, to be committed to cultures and peoples like Palestinians, and that we had not to see that, for example, today, the Council of Ourense, unfortunately, welcomed the visit of the Ambassador of the State of Israel, which, of course, we have regretted from our group. And we regret having to say once again in this Parliament: not to racism, not to colonialism, not to Zionism and not to the persecution of the Palestinian people! Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Parliamentary group which is the author of the non-legislation proposal, Mrs. Antón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u243	Thank you, President. I'm going to start at the end, and I'm going to thank Mrs. Noa Presas for her intervention because she could actually subscribe to each and every one of her words. Less that of Israel, indeed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Above all because, of course, we agree with the importance of the Way of Santiago and precisely those challenges of the future which she raised here in this rostrum are part of what we could do in that commemoration. [[Murmurs.]] Obviously, the Galician Junta will design the program of that commemoration as it seems best, but what we were commenting on is looking for meeting points, looking for challenges to the future, looking for ways in which we can contribute both to the benefit of the Way of Santiago and those other routes, will be part of it. By continuing in reverse order, Mrs Cuña, I regret that I had such a disstructured speech, because you started talking about UNESCO, that UNESCO was part of... look, we're talking about the Council of Europe, and the Council of Europe and UNESCO are two different institutions. You then linked with the Plan director of the Way of Santiago, who has no reason here, at all, in this proposal not of law. In any case, you've been talking about the privatization of the hostels. The network of shelters in Galicia is not private. What happens is that there are private hostels because the Way of Santiago also makes savings possible. So private hostels are part of those economies, of those benefits, which enable the Way of Santiago. Look, the Way of Santiago has an heritage version -- let's say -- materialist and has an immaterial heritage version, which is exactly what we tried here with the commemoration, because they didn't understand this was to commemorate. Man, I think we all celebrate our birthdays! Well, this is one more. And Santiago's Way I think he deserves it. [[Applause]] And with regard to its amendment, the truth is that we do not understand it, because precisely what we try to highlight the road is its cultural, plural, open, democratic, tolerant, even ecumenical aspect, and you intend to put red lines on it. This amendment shows that the Way is one of the routes of world pilgrimage that have been perpetuated since the 10th century, which I have been able to adapt to the reality of the 21st century and to make a qualitative and quantitative leap, but you don't. You have a series of prejudices about the Way of Santiago which the Way of Santiago itself has already passed thirty years ago; and you want to go back, and you don't understand it to be a new party. [[Applause]] Mrs. Presas, of the Galego Nationalist Block, has changed, has changed to modernity, has changed to understand Santiago's Way. The Galician Nationalist Block thirty years ago, in this rostrum, had a frontal opposition to the Santiago Way, and now it has an absolutely acceptable speech. You're talking about secularism. Laicism in the actions of public administrations goes from its own. But, said this, I can't forget that the origin of the Way is what it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u244	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u245	It is a journey of pilgrimage to the tomb of the apostle James. And that the program counts on the participation of the country's culture, of course! From culture, from intellectuals, politicians, sportsmen, according to the program, but not just from Galicia, because we're talking about an u-ni-ver-sal I-ro-peo phenomenon. U-ni-ver-sal: we transcend beyond the stage of crickets you intend to always put here. [[Applause]] I understand that you would mean a follow-up commission, because if we talk about control, control, censorship, it's almost like. So political control is already here, it's in this House and it's in the polls. Finally, regarding the amendment of the Socialist Party, I announce that if we are going to accept the first part, with a wording that we have already agreed, but we are going to reject the second part because we really understand that this does not fit in this non-law proposal. It is true that it is necessary to guarantee the buried steps, like many other things that can be brought to this House...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u246	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u247	...for your band, as a non-law proposition. What was empty of content was his speech. It was as easy as going to Google and looking at "European cultural itineraries," and you could have a little more suitable speech for the proposal. [[Applause]] I'm sorry to explain so badly, because in the same proposition I've already said what was meant. So, Mrs. Burgo, next time, please, please prepare your intervention a little more. Thank you. [[Applause]] Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u248	Thank you. Before we discuss the question, I'm going to read an institutional statement. Please be quiet. "We are witnessing an unprecedented situation and in view of the need for the international community to take urgent action and act accordingly. In early 2016, for the first time since World War II, the number of people displaced from their homes as a result of conflicts, persecution and human rights violations in their countries of origin exceeded 65 million, according to UNHCR data. A figure that would increase if we added thousands of people who had been forced to travel through natural disasters or poverty. This situation reveals the inability of the international community to resolve and prevent conflicts and situations of humanitarian emergency, as well as the lack of political will to comply with international human rights obligations and international protection. Last September 22 was a year since the leaders of the European Union agreed on an emergency relocation mechanism to share the responsibility of those seeking asylum. However, tens of thousands of people are still trapped in refugee camps in deplorable conditions. In the case of Spain, only 6% of the relocation commitments were met. At this rate, it would take eight of us to meet these commitments. The figures speak for themselves. More than a year after these commitments, Spain has hosted 1,141 people, a figure far away from the 17,337 people that the Government has committed to welcoming. In view of the above, the Galician Parliament publicly declares the urgent need for the governments of the European Union, and in particular that of Spain, to significantly speed up the process of transferring refugees to Spain through their relocation and resettlement, and to comply with the commitments agreed with the European Union to host 17,337 refugees within the time frame."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u249	We are now debating, as it has been reported in changing the agenda, an interpellation. Ms Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the land health transport service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u250	Mrs Prado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u251	Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. I would like to greet the representatives of the ambulance workers who accompany us today in the rostrum. Counsellor, the workers and their representatives are in the rostrum today following this call because neither you nor your team nor the councillor have the right to receive them, despite having sent them on multiple occasions, by land, sea and air, by various matters, to request a meeting to deal with important issues. I would hope that in the course of this intervention — at the end it would be a good time — you could talk to them and arrange an appointment, or take advantage of the occasion and listen to what they have to move them. Because those speeches from the dialogue and so on, you have to prove them in reality, and you don't just meet your friends or the person who warms your ear with the things you want to hear. We also need to listen to those who have to move problems, who want to solve the problems they live in day to day at work. That should also be an important part of your task. Then it would be good if I had a moment to meet them at the end. Today we have transferred to you here, on behalf of workers and workers, the situation of health transport in general and urgent health transport in particular. Health transport, like the rest of the health service, is an essential service, a vital service, and as such should be a priority object for the Greek Government and for the Health Council, but reality goes in the opposite direction. The German Government is opting for a management model that markets health, which means cuts in the provision of service and in the working conditions of workers. The People's Party and its council were deteriorating the service with all the decisions it was made. One of the most important in recent times was the public foundation health emergencies of Galicia 061. In 2004, he took the invitation to tender and conducted the assessment of the emergency health transport service. The Galician Nationalist Block, together with the IGC, publicly denounced at that time the irregularities surrounding this competition and called attention to the concern the sector had about how this contest was being developed. We denounced the suspicion of a favourable treatment for the company that turned out to be adjudicate of most of the lots, which was a company linked to the People's Party. We are presenting initiatives in this Parliament and we are calling for the closing of the competition because it has been paralysed on several occasions, modified for different reasons, and it has caused discomfort among the Greek companies in the sector, especially those of smaller size. At that time they rated the contest as very aggressive because, while the contest's contents were more or less similar to the previous one, a whole series of conditions were required even though they practically made it impossible to offer all those improvements with those economic accounts. The information we had, and part of the companies, was that I was going to assist a company with a very important low economic offer. We could be talking about low fear, real low fear. In fact, in the end, he was fined for an amount of EUR 3 million less than the tender was. We denounced and warned that the entrepreneurs considered it inadmissible for what I just said, and all the information indicated that the beneficiary would be a company that would be done with more than 50% of the lots, either directly or with participating companies, to those who suspected that it had purchase agreements linked to this competition. We have warned, we have warned, that the Council of Galicia has rectified itself, that this competition has been halted, because this company has led to scandals and conflicts in other parts of the state and has been preceded by a series of unclear actions and activities. In Castela-La Mancha he was sentenced to pay 37 million euros for violating the right to union freedom. The Government of Aragon has detected anomalies in the billing, as it claimed significant amounts for services not lent, and has imposed a fine of more than 300,000 euros on it. In Euskadi and Navarre, there were labour conflicts for modifying working conditions for defaulting. In Cantabria he was also convicted... there were a number of issues that, if warned, could at least make him suspect that it wouldn't be a good option to help him with the Earth's urgent transportation service. We warned because this company was mostly involved in a venture capital company, with which its aim, essentially, was the benefit. In front of it was a prominent militant of the People's Party, provincial deputy in Valladolid, Carlos Magdaleno Fernández, but the People's Party from Galicia saw elsewhere, he ignored and did what he knows best to do, which is to deliver public services with public money to companies from outside, venture capital companies and, chance!, companies directly linked to the People's Party. Well, it's random events. There's practically no German business left in the ambulance sector. A very high part is in the hands of Amboibérica. We're asking for documentation, so the law requires that we be provided, but we haven't been provided with the documentation of this entire contest. And what do we add? For in the granting of the non-emergency transport service, before the opening of the bids, there are findings and complaints by workers that there were already ambulances parked in Santiago in the transport concessionaires; that before opening the locks there were already ambulances prepared in the concessionaires; and there is also a finding that the company that is now carrying the non-emergency transport in the Coruña still has five ambulances in the concessionaire without collecting, while notes that Sergas is paying the amount of all ambulances as if it were running and providing service. Well, smaller things, don't you, Counselor? And of course, the question is how far the Government of Greece is willing to reach, how far you are willing to arrive, Counselor, to encourage friendly companies linked to the People's Party in the adjudication of public contests of the Galician Union. The question is how far they are willing to go, because this is what we have to add to you that Santiago de Compostela's Number 2 Instruction Judge investigates whether there could be prevarication, privileged information and influence trafficking in the adjudication of this contest. They're investigating a John Doe technician for the indication that the contest was set up, and the question is, what did you plan to do, Counsellor, on this issue? What research did you open? Did you do any research on this situation? Are you going to issue responsibilities? It would be good if we had, in his turn, been answering these questions. In the months of the adjudication of the urgent transport contest, fears began to occur, becoming facts. Workers of the adjudicate companies began to denounce the failure to comply with the agreement; the freezing of wages, with frozen wages since 2015; the poor conditions of many bases; that the agreement ended the vigil on 31 December 2015 and the employer does not even want to sit down to negotiate. A job situation that was predictable with the history of this company, although there are other companies involved in the agreement, but the majority is the company we're talking about. The workers denounce the use of the contract in practice for cheaper staff, because the first year they charge 60% of the established and the second year 70%. And to work demands, we have to add the complaint of the use of non-equipped support ambulances as emergency health transport. Support vehicles on which only a driver or driver is going, which must be for non-vital transfers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u252	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u253	...not to help with emergencies, they're being sent to cover emergencies not in an exceptional way, but it's becoming a habit. There are also complaints from workers of the situation totally precarious at the 061 call station, with an unbearable workload, with very long work shifts, communication of ambulances with the central through the same telephone line of patients... And the dramatic, Counselor, is that all these situations do not happen on time, but have become a structural problem. With which, I repeat to you the questions that are at the interrogation. What a model of health or land transport defends the German Government. It is thought that you are guaranteeing a quality service and the working conditions of workers. If the Italian Government is aware of the demands of the workers of the companies that provide the service, both urgent health transport 061 and the concert or call centre. If you are aware of the use of non-equipped support ambulances as emergency health transport. What type of control is carried out on the provision of the service by companies. What is the result of the report on the quality assessment of the service performed to adjudicate companies, as provided for in the requirement of conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u254	Thank you. It's clear now. We understand the questions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u255	I'd like it if I didn't want to go and put them and answer these questions, and above all answer the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u256	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u257	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. The Outpatient Emergency Service of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, since its inception, has had the main objective of ensuring urgent health care of the highest quality to the entire population of Galicia. The current configuration is a result of adaptation to the population's epidemiological and demographic needs, the characteristics of the Welsh health structure and technological advances. Its structure includes a coordination centre and an urgent health transport network. The central, unique for all Galicia, is a medical regulatory centre, which means that all health demands of the population are met by health personnel and all existing resources are geared towards identifying the care needs and giving the most appropriate response to the clinical situation that the patient presents as soon as possible. It is, of course, a vertebrate element of all health care in the Greek community. It's a power plant equipped with the technology needed for the immediate detection of demand increases, multiple-victim incidents, epidemiological alerts, etc., which enables you to strengthen, in a short period of time, work shifts, both health and non-health personnel. Since its inception in 1995, the call-in route, both of users and of health resources, has been common, having no impact on the system over the twenty-one years of activity. In any event, in the pursuit of further improvement of the system, in 2016 a call router program was implemented which, together with Tetra network — the corporate network of digital communications of emergency and security of Galicia — allows the entry of some ambulances to be provided directly by the optional responsible for the mobilization without the intervention of the teleoperator. It is being studied whether this possibility is beneficial for the whole network. At present, all existing fleet ambulances in Galicia have just been renewed, counting on the latest technological and medical advances necessary for the most advanced care for patients, which constitute the fundamental axis of our work. It can be said, without a doubt, that the resources of the health transport in Galicia are among the most modern and advanced in Europe. This is the service most appreciated by the Greeks among all who offer the Galician Health Service to citizens. The satisfaction surveys, which take place every two years, achieve elements of high levels of satisfaction on the part of users. Last year, in 2015, 98.9 % of users would use the service again in case of need, and the average service score is 9.1 on a scale from 0 to 10. Unquestionably, this is a model coveted by the medical emergency services of the rest of the country, since, still with high dispersion, a complex meteorology, many kilometres of roads, and a high population ageing, guarantees all Greek citizens the accessibility, equity and efficiency of high-capacity assistance. The current contracts, signed between the Galician Public Health Urgency Foundation-061 and the adjudicatory companies of the Land Urgent Health Transport Service, fulfil their obligation with respect to the staff employed, to comply with the applicable provisions on labour law enforcement and to the provisions of the collective agreement of the sector throughout the entire performance of the contract. As labour and social legislation establishes, lawyers, with regard to their staff, will maintain all the rights and obligations inherent in their status as employers, without the right to claim by themselves any right in relation to the Public Health Emergency Foundation of Galicia 061 or the Health Council. This means that if the workers or their works councils appreciate any irregularities in the fulfilment of the convention or of the legislation in force, they must address the competent bodies to ensure workers' rights in the field of safety and health at work, since this breach, accredited by a firm resolution of the competent authority, could be sanctioned by the foundation, which in other cases would not have authority. The shift of staff at the focal point, both sanitary and non-sanitary, 7 hours at daytime and 10 hours at nighttime, is strictly consistent with the current legislation. The Public Emergency Health Foundation of Galicia-061 meets regularly with the adjudicators of the earth's urgent health transport services, with the telephone operation service, as well as with the staff meeting of the foundation itself, with bi-monthly periodicity, and whenever a request is made, in an extraordinary way. At these meetings, these are all those proposed topics that may relate to the quality of the service and to improvements in its provision, as well as the follow-up to the contract. Even so, the Health Council has met with representatives of the different trade union organizations of the sector whenever they demand it. But we must not forget that we are talking about private business workers who have just won the public contests that the Health Council called. It's the adjudicate companies that must meet with the corresponding representatives of the workers, analyze their demands and negotiate collective agreements in each sector. The task of the Administration is to assess the strict performance of contracts, and it should not be involved in the negotiations of workers and their employers, as they have repeatedly expressed both employers and trade union organisations, and as established in the current labour legislation. Support ambulances have been used since the start of the first emergency health transport network in Galicia, i.e. since 1998. We're talking about both basic life support care ambulances, as well as staff staffing for 061, as well as conventional ambulances. The use of resources other than the emergency transportation network is always valued by the optional staff of the coordination centre, and this is one of the great benefits of having a "medical regulation" rather than the "resource clearance" type as in other autonomous communities. The services used as the only means of response are scarce, and they are used in patients who do not have a vital emergency. It should be noted that since 2010 the use of this type of resource has declined significantly, and in 2016 it has decreased to 3.88%. Since 2003, which has expanded with two new advanced life support ambulances in the cities of Coruña and Vigo, the network has not changed until 2010, when the new medical base of the Navy was inaugurated. Recently, on July 1, 2016, it just expanded with 5 new basic life-support care ambulances, in Coruña, Tomineño, Rianxo, Ourense and Vilagarcia, and with an increase in its schedule in other 5: Baiona, Marín, and 3 in Vigo city. This expansion is the result of the continuous improvement of 061, which continuously analyzes, among others, demographic changes, changes in the demand for care, changes in the road network, coverage of health centres and average response times, with the aim of adapting the network to the new needs of patients. The Urgent Health Transport Network managed by 061 is currently composed of 2 medicalized helicopters, 11 advanced life-support ambulances and 106 basic life-support ambulances, with the number of vehicles currently higher than those contemplated in the prayers. Thank you very much. We'll continue on the second exhibition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u258	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u259	Counselor, thank you very much for reading here the powers of the 061. He didn't practically answer any of the questions I asked him, and it seems clear that he has no intention of addressing the workers in the rostrum. It was funny, you said that those in charge of the 061 met with the law firm, with the foundation staff board, and it can't interfere with the relationship between the law firm and the workers. Why do they meet, then, with the adjudicatery? Why do they meet with certain unions and do not meet with the IGC, which is the hypermajority union in the sector? Does it seem moderately democratic to you that the German Government does not respect trade union agreements and workers' will, which have elections and choose their representatives? [[Applause]] Do you think you can skip these questions like that, because it comes out of your nose? That's very good! So, as everything seems to indicate that you have no intention of speaking to them, I'm going to transfer you a series of questions that have moved me to ask them. The first is that in the nail it is established that lies in the integrated management administration the evaluation, control and follow-up of the compliance of the nail. So what kind of control do the different EOXIs do about companies? Is there some kind of control? How long? How would that result be evaluated? What is the result of the report on the quality assessment of services performed to adjudicate companies? Set it up for conditions, Counselor. Is it doing? Is he taking control and evaluating? Do you know the advisor who transfers of infected patients into A2 ambulances, so to speak, collectives? Do you know Mr. Counsellor who also uses A2 vehicles to make emergency inter-hospital transfers? Do you know that, Counselor? Do you know that the post of assistant or waitress throughout Galicia practically doesn't exist, and it's the family members who do this job of helping to transfer patients because law firms don't have this staff, and in most ambulances only one person goes? Is the advisor aware that there are often two ambulances to a home so that both drivers can get down to that patient, being a wasteful of 2 ambulance resources because there are no support staff in the ambulances? Do you know the counselor who also uses ambulances for organ transfers, medical equipment, extractions and transplants, which is not established at the nail? Do you know the advisor that neither the ambulance personnel's uniforms nor the concert vehicles are labeled and identified as Sergas? Do you know that this makes it possible that these vehicles often do private transport and for private companies, for mutual and for private hospitals, when the concert establishes exclusivity for Sergas? Do you know that and you're doing something? Is he willing to do something to solve this situation? Is the advisor aware that hospitals are putting nurses for type C vehicles when this equipment had to put it on their own company? Are you aware that you are providing Sergas's personal and resources to the company when you had to put them on your own? And is the counsellor of the complaint, submitted by the workers, of misappropriation of funds by the service dealership when he makes use of the vehicles assigned to the service of EOXI — Vigo, for example — to perform services of private companies and mutuals, such as discharges and intra-hospital transfers of the Povisa Hospital? Do you have any knowledge? Did you get the complaint from the workers on this issue? What have you done about it? We'd like you to be able to answer some of these questions. And before I'm done, I'm going back to place it so that, when I'm done, I'm going to address the representatives of the workers, the majority representatives in the sector, and I've had to listen to all of these issues — since I've just made a brief summary — and many others, who are the ones who have asked for so much meeting of those in charge of the 061...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u260	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u261	...as well as his advice to move all these questions to him. I, apart from asking you to answer these questions, Counsellor, would ask you to rectify your policy of primaryizing economic criteria on the quality of care in a service as vital to the health and life of people as is the transportation of land in ambulances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Closure of this plea. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u263	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, Mrs. Prado, you've got me used to that. I'm not surprised at anything. You come here with an interrogation and a series of questions and then you come to the end and you talk about anecdotes, comments, complaints... I think, if that's what you say it is, what you have to do is file a complaint, not come here and give data about comments. The truth is, just to comment on that of the two ambulances that are going to a place to transfer a patient, man!, I don't understand that there's a company that can do that. But, of course, in anything irregular, if it complains, it acts clearly; not in this contract, in any contract. But I also remind you that contracts have regulations and we have to comply with them. You always talk about low fear, we warn, we warn... No, if you're too used to reporting and then you have to report, and we encourage you to do so. But, of course, it's easy to come to a Parliament, stay well in front of everyone and say things that have no legal basis. We follow the contract law, it has to be like this. The economic part has a weight, the rest is service, it's not the only thing there is. But of course, when they run a contest, companies know what they're presenting and make an offer. If what is requested is too much for what can be paid, obviously the competitions remain deserts and the administration has to change those demands and increase the economic allocation, if the problem is economic. In this case companies were presented to all batches. Look, the foundation's transport commission is an internal working group, it's made up of workers who represent all areas of this foundation. Its main task is to evaluate and analyse the incidences detected in the execution of the contract, as well as users' claims, so the ultimate aim is to ensure the strict fulfilment of the contract signed between the foundation and the adjudicate companies. The foundation also carries out a periodic inspection of all vehicles to ensure that during the period of execution of the contract they comply with all the characteristics required in the nails. The process of recruiting the earth's urgent health transport service, carried out by the public foundation recruitment body Emergency Sanitary Offices of Galicia 061, was carried out in accordance with the Consolidated Text of the Public Sector Contracts Act and the one established in the nail of particular administrative clauses, ensuring at all times strict compliance with the applicable legislation. To date, resolutions on 11 appeals before the Madrid Central Administrative Court of Contractual Resources have been in favour of the foundation —11 appeals submitted —. Even so, before the Dispute-Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, three appeals were filed: a resolution favourably for the foundation, February 2, 2017; and the other two, pending resolution. In 2016, in relation to compliance with the quality indicators of the services collected in the prayers, where the data collection, the state and maintenance of the vehicles are valued, the quality felt by the users, the training of staff and the follow-up of the operating protocols of the service, the average percentage reached by the tax companies throughout the community was 94%. The state of health transport in the Autonomous Community of Galicia has, as has already been pointed out, been among the most modern and advanced in the state. It is a fully renewed fleet, technologically advanced and of high comfort to the patient during his assistance and transfer. Obviously, there is no need to solve a situation that is modelled in the Spanish state and systematically observed and imitated by the rest of the health services because of its effectiveness and the guarantees it offers to users. So, for example, the implementation of our programs by health services from other autonomous communities, such as the "School Alert" program in the Balearic Islands; or the fact that we are once again pioneers at national level in implementing a strategy aimed at cardioprotecting all citizens, regardless of their proximity to the most advanced health resources, through the "RCP in the classroom" program. These merits are recognised as being awarded the European 400+ Quality Management Foundation, as well as multiple awards from its special programs, such as the Leave, Progaliam or Anxioedema Alert Program. Recently, the Spanish Society of Cardiology and the Medical Journal collect these programs as the best health ideas in Spain. This doesn't mean that the Health Council doesn't continue as it has up to now, analyzing the sector and adapting to new needs, centres and technological advances. It is very remarkable that the urgent health transport network had not changed during the years 2005-2009, when it ruled its party in the Bipartite. However, in 2010 a new ambulance, as I said, was incorporated into the Navy, and in 2016, five new basic life support ambulances. Look, we've made it clear that this is a great service. And, of course, a lot of this is due to the workers of 061, who do a great job. And our function is to ensure the legality of contracts and, of course, that both labour conditions and services are met to the Greek users, which logically is the main end of the Galician Health Service. We will continue to fight for improvement, for modification, for enlargement, according to the needs of the people of Greece. And in that, of course, we will surely be united with you too. But, of course, we're still fighting for better health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u264	Thank you, Counselor. As noted today in the morning, we now ask questions to the Government; in this case, to the Health Counsellor. First of all, Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela's question of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Question by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the urgent construction of a new health centre in the former Navy Command of Vilagarcía de Arousa
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u265	Whenever you like, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u266	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Vilagaría has about 40,000 people, about twice as much in summer. And at some point in summer it's 100,000 people. We have a health centre — and it is not a matter of talking about other health deficits, such as a medical ambulance or the loss of services at the Salnés Hospital — built in 1974, which places us on a horizon of more than 40 years. That health center, when the elevator breaks down — which is often enough — people who have accessibility problems — as in wheelchairs — have to leave the health center and do it in the street. The ambulances, to stop in front of emergencies, have to invade the sidewalks and tap the entrance. There are temperatures of over 35 degrees. Flea pests were detected in the doctor's room. Serious humidity problems have been detected. There's a defibrillator; therefore, when doctors have to get out of an ambulance urgently and use it, you can find that there's a need for a defibrillator in the health center and there's no such thing. We have two coaches in the same consultation, which means -- and I think it's pretty exemplary -- that there may be a woman or a couple having to tell a person their private sexual life when there's another couple on the side table who can meet -- or not, I don't know which of the two options is worse -- and even that they can be looked after by a couple next to them in the same situation, which may be that they know or don't know her. We need a new health center in Vilagarcia, Counsellor, you know. And I'm sure, in addition, that your medical opinion says so, because it's a social demand and it's a medical demand. We have an ideal, central place, with public transport next to it, accessible; 5,000 square meters into a solar that's free for that. As early as 2009, a president of the Port of Vilagarcía, a socialist, signed an agreement with the Council of Health, which at that time belonged to a socialist government, a socialist adviser. And they agreed that this place would be transferred for the construction of a great new health center that had brought out those medical needs that Vilagarcia had. We're talking about 2009. In 2012 — reaching the autonomous elections — it began to spread by the People's Party — you know some benchmate who did so — false debates about the relocation of the problem and why it had to be centralized in the centre of Vilagaría and not to make small consultations atomized in some places in Vilagarcia, an absolutely outdated model. After that debate, public demonstrations and a popular cry on the matter, 2016 — before the elections — and the advisor said that she was going to study it technically, that she was going to send technicians to assess the state of the solar that had been proposed since the Vilagaría Town Hall. The technicians simply said it was the right place, Counselor, the right place. Which proves it's the perfect place, because it's said by the Counsellor's technicians. After the election, the Council now says that this place has problems because there's a building that's over 40 years old to be demolished. Of course, more or less the same ones that have the current health center. Counsellor, the Vilagarcia health center is going to be done. I think you have the chance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u267	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u268	...as an advisor, if you're the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u269	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u270	So we asked him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u272	... considering Galician Union the urgent construction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u273	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u274	...from a new health center in Vilagaría. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u275	Thank you. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u276	Good afternoon, sir. First of all, I wanted to make it clear that the provision of health care services in the Municipality of Vilagarcía is the right one, both in terms of human resources and materials, as well as in terms of the portfolio of services. There is an important activity, both with regard to general medical consultations — I'm sorry, Mr. Torrado, I'm going to talk about figures, I'm not going to talk about bad-counted anecdotes by you — that there are 13,759 quotes from 22 family doctors, as well as pediatricians, 2,288 quotes for 5 pediatricians; nursing, 7,956 quotes from 23 nursing graduates; dentistry, hygienist and pharmacists as well. The center has retinography and teleophthalmology, as well as teledermatology, which stimulates attention and prevents patient displacements. In mid-2016 we launched the colon cancer screening program, which covers 7,500 people. From the start of the program, there are about 25 colonoscopy per week, which allows the diagnosis and early treatment of the pathology detected. It's also very relevant to the "Conect 72" program, a program in which the role of nursing professionals is crucial and which improves the attention and follow-up of people after a hospital discharge in the first 72 hours. About 19,000 people benefited from this program in 2016. To give an idea of the quality of care in the area of primary care in Salnés, we have to say that in 2016 we received the prestigious Avedis Donabedian award. In the field of hospital care, the balance is also positive, as reflects both the activity carried out in surgical interventions — in 2016, 4,773, of which 3,449 were outpatients; with an average waiting of 38.2 days — as well as in consultations — 91.025, with a delay of 32 days—. As far as delay for priority 1 is concerned, the most serious patients are around 6.9 days. And if we're talking about infrastructure investments, we have to remember that the Salnes Hospital has already put the new emergency areas, obstetric block and surgical block into operation, with an investment of 9.5 million euros. And he's already started the third phase of enlargement, which includes the area of posciurgical care and a new day hospital. I would also like to recall that the district of Salné has since last July with a new core life support ambulance of 12 hours, in an initiative to improve and strengthen the urgent health transport of Galicia to which the Health Administration allocates an budget of 2.8 million euros for the period 2016 to 2019. Given that this, the main features, is the real situation and with the willingness to improve in the medium and long term this service, technicians of the Galician Health Service, accompanied by staff of the Town Hall and the Harbour Authority, made a visit to the site proposed by the Town Hall, to the building of the Harbour Authority. According to these technicians, the construction of the year 79...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u277	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u278	...as they say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u279	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u280	... presents a very limited positive state, which does not adapt functionally or constructively to current standards.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u281	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Torado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u282	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, I think there was a problem. The question was about the health center and answered me about the hospital. I don't know if you might have a good time with the question. [[Applause]] I understand anyway, Counselor, that you don't want to talk about the health centre, because the position of the PP is hardly sustainable. You say that the technical reports — which is the only one you referred to — say that the building has to be demolished and that this is a problem in the building. I agree, she's over 40 years old, like the health center, something over 40 years old. Well, since you have to bring it down, then we agree that the solar is very good. And then I thought of one thing, Counselor: here's the mayor of Vilagarcia and members of his government. I think they'd be perfectly willing to sit with you no longer ends today's plenary session and offer you that if the Council really commits itself to the health center, it doesn't turn around and it doesn't talk about the hospital, the ambulance or other things, if it doesn't talk about anything else, and if you're committed to doing that real health center, the Council is willing to economically support that overthrow. Because look, a collapse of that building costs about 200,000 euros, there are, at least 100 meters, a portion of the Administration, next to the judges, which is about 3,200 square meters. In which we propose we are talking about 5,000 square meters, but these 3,200 administration values them in 2.5 million euros. If you tell me it's impossible to make a health center, because a demolition of 200,000 euros is not good and you're looking for another plot, when the plot next to is worth two and a half million euros, or we're all inefficient, which is possible, or you don't want to make the health center. You have an offer. The Town Hall supports and assists in the demolition of that building. Now the ball is on your roof — and not on Miguel Tellado, who, if not, we'd know you wouldn't do it, but for allusions, Counsellor. You have to decide, health center whether or not, but don't even tell me about the hospital, Counsellor, or tell me anything else. Do you want or don't want to be a health center? He's got an offer on the table. Can you answer us, please, whether you want to do it or not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u283	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u284	...you want to make that health center?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u285	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Precisely, we say that health care - because we are generally talking about health care in the area of Vilagarcía - is appropriate, but we never stay there, we want to improve in the medium and long term. Of course, the City Council, the only thing we ask of us is what we ask of any municipality where we do a health center, which is a plot without engravings, properly located, with good communications and which is a reference for that municipality. Look, what we're saying is that where the Vilagarcia Town Hall offers us a plot -- which is, by the way, not from it, not from the Vilagarcia Town Hall -- it has engravings, not only from the building, which is a building not suitable for the conditions of the health centre, but still above it has engravings from the port. We didn't build like that. I would ask the Council of Vilagarcia to do the same as Caldas de Reis, also socialist. By the way, they said before that there was a socialist and a socialist in the Council. That's the peak now, the maximum of management. I don't know why they didn't do it at that time. The truth is, it was a shame. We don't talk about what are popular now, what we say is that we want the best situation for a plot that is passed to the Galician Health Service and in good condition, that it is well located and that technicians say it meets all the conditions. The mayor of Caldas de Reis, also a socialist, perfectly accepted that the plot he offered us was not the right one. We are now about to close an agreement with the Caldas Town Hall to make a health center, which is also needed, and possibly even before the Vilagarcia City. But, of course, if Vilagarcia, the Vilagarcia Town Hall, puts a proper plot in a position, in location and in a situation with respect to the population and, logically, free of any engravings, we'll be ready, the Council would be ready to do what needs to be done, but always in the conditions we're asking for any other council, wherever it may be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u287	Thank you very much. Question by Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the implementation of improvement measures for the Virgin Hospital in June, Cee
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u288	Have the floor to Mrs. Toja Suárez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u289	Good afternoon. First of all, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we want to show our solidarity with the professionals at the Virgin Hospital in June, in Cee, and also with patients, because ultimately they are the ones who are suffering from the deficiencies, deficiencies and deficiencies of technical and personal means in the hospital. [[Applause]] It seems like it was yesterday, but it's been eighteen years since the Cee Hospital is running, and over the years, with the passage of time, it is clear that it has generated new needs. The most important ones are the following: Full-time zoom in of the animation service. Currently, when a patient requires longer than 24 hours of resuscitation, he or she should be referred to a reference hospital. Implantation of the Cardiology Service. We live in an advanced society, in a developed society, and cardiovascular disease is the main cause of death today, but the Cee Hospital doesn't have a cardiology service. Staff zoom in to the area of the flyer. There's only one digestive person. The waiting lists of colonoscopy and endoscopy are endless; they are far behind considerably. Urgent renewal of the surgical material, which is worn out by use. In the election campaign, in September 2016, an investment of €160,000 was announced for the provision of operating material. This would take place in the last quarter of 2016. The day has passed and the romary has passed. To this day, they're still not making those investments. Extension of the nephrology service. This is a question of humanity. Patients with nephrology are receiving treatment in a small room, without light, where they spend three days a week, four hours a day, in a small place, which looks like a zulu and where there is no light. These are precisely the lucky ones, because then there is another kind of patient who, as there is only one nephrologist and only performs one shift, logically, the rest are drifting either to the Hospital da Coruña or Santiago Hospital, with which, there begins the periple of these patients, who sometimes reach eleven hours from the beginning of their day, to the end; eleven hours a day, three days a week. The patients, when they go, are tired, but they're around very, very exhausted because they're sick patients waiting for a transplant. So this is a question of humanity. Just with a nephrologist more you could take turns tomorrow and afternoon and you could take care of twice as many people. As I tell you, this is a matter of humanity, and we don't say it, but patients themselves demand this service. As you see, what we are asking them today is, as always, a basic question, which is what we always ask for, as every time we ask for something for the Death Coast -- a basic question. So we asked him: do the Government of Greece plan to implement some kind of improvement measure in terms of resources for the Virgin Hospital in June? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u290	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u291	Madam, first I wanted to make a correction. Exactly this year we're going to celebrate the 20th anniversary, not the 18th, 20th anniversary of the construction of the Cee Hospital, the Virgin of the Janqueira, which has been true for 20 years. And I want to take this moment too to have a memory for who was the first manager, Mr. José Rey Aneiros, who just three days ago did it two years since he passed away, and who was one of the people who did a lot for the development of this hospital at the beginning of it. Look, needs assessment and implementation of possible improvements and solutions is something that is not done on time, but continuously. In recent years, continuous improvements have been made to maintain and improve the quality of health care provided to the population and the provision of resources available to staff, e.g. digital mammographer, new surgical arch, automated dispensation system, equipment for teleassisting in the stroke, electromechanical equipment worth EUR 150,000, defibrillators, echocardiograms, monitors, echodoples, new motor in traumatology surgery, ultrasound, videogastroscopic for disjesives, digital room, OCT equipment (optical coherence tomography) for ophthalmology, removal of anesthesia machines, acquisition of a trauma surgery table, replacement of the TAC... In addition, continuous repair and replacement of materials that services detect that may cause deterioration, both by repair processes and purchase of anesthesia enabled throughout the entire exercise of trauma, replacement of the TAC... Furthermore, it is carried out by the analysis of the needs plan, which ensures the activity. The demand for health care from the population of the Virxe da Xunqueira Hospital remained stable in the last years and could be increased from municipalities in neighbouring areas to those of the population served under Decree 55/2015 of 26 March, so it is regulated, among others, the right to free choice of hospital center in the public health system of Galicia. Resource planning and management has enabled you to maintain efficient functioning and quality of care, so that activity data and waiting times improve half-Greek. The average waiting time for surgery was 43 days in 2016, compared to 68 at the general level. The Internal Medicine Service, which has an activity of external consultations and hospitalization, is paying attention to the cardiology area for low complexity processes. Patients who need attention in cardiological superspecialities have a high prestigious reference service where personalized and adjusted attention can be given to the patient's specific diagnostic process. The teleconsultation of cardiology is implemented in the Coruña Health Area, which enables, through the digital allocation through the Hospital 2020 projects, the agile and efficient communication of professionals with the Cardiology Service in a telematic manner.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u293	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u294	Thank you. Replica. Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u295	Counselor, you haven't answered anything I asked you. It says it's twenty years, not eighteen, very well, because even more reason to make investments, there's no doubt about it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] I would ask you, please, and I ask you on behalf of patients with nephrology, it's an exercise of empathy. Imagine that a sick man of these is a relative of his, a son, a father, a brother, imagine that, and imagine him getting up at five in the morning to take a shared ambulance, because eight people are going to pick them up, and then go to a four-hour treatment. Imagine then coming back. Over the course of the day it was eleven hours. Imagine and do an exercise of empathy, think they're not numbers, they're people who are waiting for a transplant. And I'd say something to him: that at least they're looking for a better place for the treatment that's done in Cee not to be in the place that would be destined for the body fridge. There's no light there. That's where people are receiving treatment. There's no light. This is a disease that has an important emotional burden, and so they have patients. An exercise of empathy is what we would ask him to do. We know it's difficult, because I'm a soulless government, because the Death Coast doesn't care about anything, that's what they show us every day! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] They don't tell us the truth, they come in the campaign, they promise the bus, then they run corridors, then they come and they promise surgical material... They don't comply with the Death Coast. So, you know what? We've already shown with Ferroatlantics, and we've already shown that we're not going to be quiet. We're going out to the street, we're going to protest. We're not going to be quiet, no, and when the Death Coast rises, we get what we want. Listen to us, because it's better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u297	Look, I think you're getting very nervous about this question today, because... you... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u298	Quiet, please. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u299	...they went to the press to say that he was asking for the undercover dismantling of the services of the Cee Hospital. That was a week. The following week: "The PSOE denounces that at Cee Hospital the surgical material is washed by hand"...... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u300	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u301	Then Sergas had to go out and say this was a barbarity. He says, "False PSOE complaints about the Virxe da Junqueira Hospital." And then you have to come, and on March 29th, they say, "The PSOE makes it clear that he never questioned the work of the Cee Hospital staff. And this confirms it today when the first one... first of all, of the question, they apologize to the staff... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u302	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u303	We all agree that the staff of this primary care hospital, such as that of all the Greek hospitals, is excellent. But that can't be used for political purposes... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u304	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u305	...to put in a bad place a health care activity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u306	You have to put something together... sorry, this is a turn of questions and answers, but you have to put something in it too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u307	...that we have one of the best health care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u308	Man, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u309	...from Spain. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the Cee Hospital is not an isolated element of health care, it is incorporated into one of Spain's most important health areas, which is the Sanitary Area of Coruña. Of course, from population issues, we have certain services at Cee Hospital, but of course, the CHUAC, the Juan Canalejo da Coruña, has always covered the entire area of population, and therefore we can never say... we have services, we still have to improve the incorporation and coordination between the different hospital areas, in fact, there will be a change -- that we have already commented on in previous days -- of structure to make these relationships more agile. [[Murmurs.]] And, of course, the only guide that should lead us to work, to serve the citizen of Galicia, is that they have the same conditions as those in any area of Galicia. Of course, we defend all citizens of these eight councils, as we defend the 313 councils of Galicia, and what we seek, with all the services that citizens make available through their taxes, is that it is a service of quality and equity among all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-04-DSPG023.u310	When the order points are finished today, the session is roused. Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't have... No, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think I announced the order of the day well in the morning. I think I announced it would be... I talked about two questions for the advisor. No, but tomorrow's counselor isn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I don't know what the question is. I don't know. [[Murmurs.]] I just don't know. Of course, maybe he's not the health advisor who answers, I don't know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know now. I don't know right now. I can't answer this because I don't know. [[Murmurs.]] Get up the session.
