ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u1	Good morning. We resumed the session. Annual general policy debate. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia to inform and discuss the political situation of the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u2	Today's plan is, firstly, that the announcement will be made by the secretariat of the grouping and a separate vote on the motions for resolutions, which will be voted on in accordance with the information received by the parliamentary groups. Then there will be an intervention by the spokespersons of the parliamentary groups for the presentation and overall defence of all motions for resolutions, for a period of 20 minutes, and then a standing round by the parliamentary groups in relation to the proposals of the other groups, for a period of ten minutes. Finally, we shall vote on the motions for resolutions. We therefore begin with the communication by the Secretary of the House of Commons of the motions for resolutions admitted by the Bureau and its grouping for the vote. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u3	Thank you, President. "Communication to the plenary of the Galician Parliament on the motions for resolutions submitted to the 2017 general policy debate. First. Agreement for the qualification and admission of motions for resolutions. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 5 October 2017, examined the motions for resolutions formalised by parliamentary groups in connection with the general policy debate of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in 2017. Having regard to Article 141a of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure and to the qualifications criteria laid down by the Bureau of the House on 27 September 2017, following the hearing of the Speaker's Board, by which Parliamentary groups may submit a maximum of 40 motions for resolutions relating to the broad lines of general policy, non-local, simple wording and which cannot give rise to a separate vote within each proposal, the following agreement was adopted: (a) motions for resolutions tabled by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, document No 18278, 40 motions for resolutions tabled. The 40 motions for resolutions are allowed to proceed. With regard to motions for resolutions Nos 1, 4, 6, 9, 14, 22, 26 and 33, they are included, on their own initiative, the expression "logo of compliance with the regulatory requirements", since the creation of committees and statements, as well as the withdrawal of drafts and bills, must be made in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House. (b) motions for resolutions submitted by the Galician Parliamentary Group of Socialists, document No 18277, 40 motions for resolutions submitted. The motions for resolutions are allowed to proceed. (c) motions for resolutions tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, documents Nos 18280 and 18290, 40 motions for resolutions tabled. The procedure for the motions for resolutions is allowed after reformulation of motion for resolution No 38. (d) Motions for resolutions submitted by the People's Parliamentary Group, document No. 18279, 40 motions for resolutions submitted. The motions for resolutions are allowed to proceed. In motion for resolution No. 8 the expression "floating degrees in English" should be read as "floating degrees in English". Second. Agreement on proposed transactions and requests for separate voting of motions for resolutions. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 6 October 2017, adopted the following agreement: 1st. Take note of the following proposed transactions and requests for separate votes: (a) Negotiated motions for resolutions: 1)18315, motion for a resolution resulting from the compromise drawn up by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 11 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. 2)18316, motion for a resolution resulting from the compromise drawn up by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 28 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. (3)18317, motion for a resolution resulting from the compromise drawn up by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on motion for a resolution No. 35 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. (4)18318, proposal for a compromise between the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group and the Galician People's Group on motion for a resolution No 14 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group. 5)18319, proposal for a compromise between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Group of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 39 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. 6)18320, proposal for a compromise by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the European Parliamentary Group of En Marea and the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 9 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. 7)18325, proposal for a compromise between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Group of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 37 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. (8)18326, proposal for a compromise between the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's Group of Galicia on motion for a resolution No 38 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. (b)Assembly concerns, a separate vote on the motions for resolutions: b. 1) Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: 1.- Motion for a resolution No. 11. 2.- Motion for a resolution No. 15. 3.- Motions for resolutions Nos. 1, 13, 34 and 40. 4.- Motions for resolutions Nos 10, 18, 19, 22, 25, 27 and 35. 5.- Motions for resolutions Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 12, 14, 16, 17, 20, 21, 23, 24, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 36, 37, 38 and 39. b. 2) Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia: 1.- Motion for a resolution No. 9. 2.- Motion for a resolution No. 10. 3.- Motion for a resolution No. 18. 4.- Motions for resolutions Nos. 4, 6, 8, 20 and 27. 5.- Motions for resolutions Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 and 40. b. 3) En Marea Parliamentary Group: 1.- Motion for a resolution No. 1. 2.- Motion for a resolution number 2. 3.- Motion for a resolution number 6. 4.- Motion for a resolution No. 17. 5.- Motion for a resolution number 33. 6.- Motion for a resolution No. 40. 7.- Motions for resolutions Nos 8, 10, 15, 20 and 32. 8.- Motions for resolutions Nos. 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 12, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 29, 30, 31, 34, 36, 37, 38 and 39. b.4) People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia: 1. Proposal for a resolution No. 18. 2.- Motion for a resolution No. 26. 3.- Motion for a resolution number 32. 4.- Motion for a resolution number 34. 5.- Motions for resolutions Nos 8, 23 and 28. 6.- Motions for resolutions Nos. 3, 6, 10 and 17. 7.- Motions for resolutions Nos 22, 25, 30 and 40. 8.- Motions for resolutions Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 19, 20, 21, 24, 27, 29, 31, 33, 35 and 36. 2nd. The compromise proposals imply the collapse of the motions for resolutions on which they are being dealt, and they will therefore not be put to the vote. 3rd. The vote shall be put to the vote on the resolution rather than on the explanatory part of the motions for resolutions." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u4	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Debate on the motions for resolutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u5	We therefore begin with the debate on the motions for resolutions. Round of parliamentary groups. First of all, you have the floor, for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u6	Good morning, everyone. On the first day of the debate since the Galician Nationalist Block we formulated in this House what we understand is the key to facing from Galicia the current political moment and all the scenarios that can be opened from now on. A necessary debate, transcendental to the future of this country, of the Galicians and of the Greeks. An adult debate, mature, democratic, without accusations of coup, of insurrection, of Balkanization, of supremacy, of rebellion and a whole range of terms that we hear from the Presidency of the Union in the media, in the institutions of the Spanish State, with a single objective: to build a reality that frightens. The idea that will reverse the motions for resolutions that we have tabled since the Nationalist Block in Wales emanates from a clear political will: to move forward. Go forward walking collectively without leaving anyone behind. To advance in rights, in freedom, in democracy, because in the face of the uncertainties in which we find ourselves today the most scary thing gives us the people that we are part of the BNG is that everything remains the same. That after the blows of the economic crisis and neoliberal policies, the loss of labour rights, the destruction of productive tissue and jobs, the disappearances, the cuts, the loss of continued population, of rural depopulation and youth emigration, the fear that we have is that after all, they gain resignation and conformism. [[Applause]] That is why we propose and defend in the context of this debate of the state of the nation, of this general political debate, to move forward. Moving forward in the development of the country, in an economy put at the service of workers and workers, to move forward in a change of production model that forms the basis of the country's economic development, but which does not lose sight of the ecological aspect and the necessary response to climate change. To move forward from us, proud of our identity, of our language and of our culture, seeing them not only a symbol to which we use ritually, but as elements of creation and production that unite us — yes — with many countries and peoples of the world as well. We are living one of the most convulsive moments of the last forty years—I would dare say that what most for many of us, by the simple fact that we were born in the late eighties— To ignore that context or turn off what is happening in the Spanish State of the immediate future of Galicia is simply an insult to collective intelligence, inside and outside this House. And in times of uncertainty it's necessary to ask the right questions to get the answers we need. Is this Galician who draws us in her daily speech the People's Party the only real one? Is this framework out of 1978 and 1981 the only possible Galician? Is it to question what you've given us, about what many of us couldn't even decide, a threat? No, no, no, no. There's a lot of people out there who are very tired, tired that with the excuse of the economic crisis they can leave you out of work just saying that the company plans to reduce profits. Tired of everything rising, except the wages of this country, the lowest seconds of the whole state. Tired of studying a career and a master's degree and English so as not to find work or chain contracts for hours, for days and have the mind in practice or end up in emigration. Tired of seeing in the news the huge profits of the same banks a few years ago were rescued with public money; there you don't count on the money that leaves us to each worker's due financial institutions. [[Applause]] There are a lot of people, a lot of people very tired of seeing a woman murdered, raped, discriminated against by the mere fact of being women, converted into headlines or statistics in the best of cases. A masculine violence that almost causes no social or political reaction, no more than a minute's silence — and that's killing you. Male violence that leaves only a few lines in the intervention of the President of the Union in one of the main debates of the year, not a single reflection of what we are living in, not even a figure. [[Applause]] Three murders in 2017: Ana, Maria José and Javier, an 11-year-old boy. A violence that does not call for crisis cabinets or exceptional statements from the State Chief of Staff, or government emergency meetings or emergency police deployments. [[Applause]] There was no way they accepted concrete budget commitments today, 1%, 1%! It's enough not to commit to anything. There are a lot of people tired of seeing that democracy reaches just as far as it gives the absolute majority of the government of turn, a supposed democracy that allows us to impose the interests of oligarchy with the reform of 135 of the Constitution, with the reform of work or with the signing of a free trade treaty, but not to debate the transfer AP-9, agreed unanimously by this House. And you know why? [[Applause]] Because the People's Party — its own — does not have enough votes in the Spanish Courts to say no, so that there is no direct debate. That's the result of your submission, your plea to the Central Government. They lead us to political irrelevance as a country at a time when it can make us all backward. I repeat: is this the only Galician possible? Since the BNG we have made 40 motions for resolutions in this debate on the state of the nation to respond to the real problems of thousands of people in this country. Proposals — we insist — to move forward collectively without leaving anyone behind, but, above all, to regain rights: labour rights, social rights that we have lost over the past few years, especially during the nine of their government. Stop hiding behind the bipartisan government and assume their own inheritance. Look, you've been in government for more years than I've ever been discharged from Social Security. [[Applause]] They're in front of the figures of their own political management. [[Applause]] In this sense, one of the problems currently facing this country is the consolidation of precariousness, the consolidation of precariousness as a model of work. Data from the Spanish Ministry a few days ago: 774,500 contracts accumulated in our country, of which 92% are temporary. Another example, given also by the Ministry of Labour: in Galicia, unemployment grew in September, more than 6,000 social security contributions were lost and yet 649 contracts were signed more than in the previous month. It is urgent — and we have gathered it in the motions for resolutions — to repeal the labour reforms and to draw up a plan for a Greek shock plan against unemployment and precariousness, with measures aimed at priority groups: youth, women, long-term unemployed persons and, of course, with specific actions for self-employed persons, for whom we call for the amendment of the legislation in force to be amended in order to ensure that they contribute according to their incomes. Better working and wage conditions to ensure not only a decent job for those who live here, but also to enable those forced to return to emigration in recent years, particularly youth. Faced with this reality, since the BNG we have continued to defend the Plan Return, not as a toast to the sun, not as an excuse to introduce criticism to the Government of Venezuela, but as a real commitment, as a set of cross-sectional measures directed at access to housing, research, development and innovation programs or the incorporation of youth into the strategic productive sectors of our country. [[Applause]] Rights are to improve the conditions of older people, from the top of pensions — and they have a concrete proposal on the table: they increase the autonomic complement of non-contributory people — but they also mean guaranteeing close, public and quality care services, regardless of whether people live in the center of a city or in the middle and high mountain, which – if so – also exists and where people still live. [[Applause]] Dichotomous question in this respect in reference format: Will the Government of the Spanish State be called upon to pay the debt it has pending with Galicia in relation to dependency? 150 million euros, we put it back on the table for the last time. Is it easy: yes or no? Decide. [[Applause]] Recovering lost rights goes through shielding public services as fundamental rights that are, with real budgetary commitments and not suppressing comarcas health areas, the recovery of destroyed jobs, reverting privatization processes and seeking more efficient management of them through the overcoming of the provincial framework, towards the promotion of supra-municipal cooperation spaces, not city councils; we connect services, we guarantee dignified living conditions by setting population, particularly in rural areas. Moving forward without leaving anyone behind is ending up with this Galicia at two speeds that leaves half the country to the edge, particularly in Lugo and Ourense. That is why we advocate a multiannual comprehensive rural development plan, a real plan and not the same measures as the 2015 European Development Plan, now sold with a new link. Deserving prices for the first link in the chain — the first, and not the last — worthy prices in origin to guarantee a dignified life in the primary sector. Land at the disposal of those who need it through the Land Bank. Diversification, reverse the intensification of holdings and with it the dependence of foreign inputs. Reduce production costs ultimately. Multifunctional exploitation of the mountain, silvopasteros against fire, prevention and not just extinction, within the framework of a living rural environment. But also infrastructures, infrastructures that connect the interior of the country to each other and to the Atlantic axis. Vertebration of the territory and a railway worthy of bearing such a name. Returning from AVE to Lugo is simply an insult to intelligence. [[Applause]] We're back on the table to set up a public and German railway body that manages the proximity train and also the old Fever to meet the real needs of this country and not to appreciate the interests and bandules beyond. In the face of the short-term practice of Joining, we want to introduce a long-term perspective: which country do we want to live in? How are we going to deal with the major challenges that Galicia faces in the field of financing, demography, economic development, territorial balance? In this sense, we propose to walk towards a new production model based on the middle and not on the predation of the territory. Withdraw the Law from business initiatives. A model based on the use of the own potentials that bet on innovation and added value creation, ceases to be a mere supplier of raw materials to close productive cycles here. [[Applause]] To advance in rights yes, but also in freedoms, in overcoming this post-franquism in which we live. We defend the development of a public policy of memory, to enforce the right to truth, justice and reparation of the victims of fascism; the return to the people of the goods stripped by the dictatorship, all of them; and to end the impunity of those people. [[Applause]] Democracy in the face of concealment, in the face of the imposition of a false account. Yesterday yes, but today too. That is why we insist on setting up an investigation committee in this House on the biggest railway accident in our history. We want to know the truth, we want to clean up public responsibilities and repair the victims and the families of the Angrois disaster, ensuring that it cannot be repeated again. You can't shut everything down, as if nothing happened here. [[Applause]] In short, from the BNG we propose with these 40 motions for resolutions to change the paradigm, to change the perspective, to stop accepting everything we are supposed to be unable to change, to start changing what we cannot and must not accept. And for that we need the political tools to enable us to do so, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is irreparably beyond the current constitutional and statutory framework, a framework which after all the time has passed is more a corset, a narrow suit than a useful instrument, a framework on which my generation could not decide at what time we are supposed to be able to question without disturbing anyone, at what time we will be able to question it without asking for permission. So we advocate the creation of a presentation to address a new institutional framework, starting from what we are, a nation, leaving behind archaic, reactionary and antidemocratic monarchical institutions. Anyone who wishes to be a public representative who is present at the elections. A new framework to shield social rights and public freedoms in this country, ensuring greater progress and collective well-being. [[Applause]] The one we have isn't the only possible Galician one. Finished the way I started. We're living one of the most convulsive moments of the last forty years. It's not time to stay motionless. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u8	Thank you, President. Good morning. Hemero library: library where you keep and serve to the daily public and other periodical publications. Well, three pearls. One. No other debate was held in more infamous conditions — said the president of the Galician Union. Of course he forgot that he himself wanted to coincide right after the referendum in Catalonia, and his majority in the Bureau gave up any possibility to change the date. Perhaps because, hiding behind the Catalan question, he hides his own paralysis and what little he has to offer as a balance during this nearly first year of legislation. [[Applause]] Two. Many of the problems of rule that we are living in the whole of Spain are explained by the abuse of some political forces that do not win democratic elections. The reform of the General Elections Act is one of the political reforms that Spain needs to shield administrations and not put democracy at risk. But, of course, the president of the board forgot what will happen in Tui on the next 17th of October, when there is a motion of censure, a motion of censure that will lead a gentleman who, in addition to aspire to Tui being a principal like Liechtenstein, identifies himself as libertarian and nationalist. [[Applause]] Ata said, "I defend the right and democratic will of a majority of citizens of a people who share cultural traits in expressing their free desire to group, self-organize and democratically decide what the legal framework in which one wants to vote, including the decision to share or not their sovereignty." Carlos Padín is called this gentleman who is expected to be the next mayor and has only two concellers in the municipal corporation, two concelers for the seven that add up to the People's Party and their divisions. [[Applause]] It seems a bit contradictory to say that we should rule the most voted list and come with a motion for a resolution to this Parliament, as I agree with each place. Could Mr Rueda and Mr Moisés Rodríguez, who represent the province of Pontevedra and Mr Tui respectively in this operation to cast a socialist mayor of the mayor, vote against proposal No. 23 of the People's Parliamentary Group? We'll see. And three. "The German VA will arrive in Ourense in 2019." It turns out that yesterday even in the Official State Bulletin, the bidding of the civil work, the construction of the platform was published, so, united with the budgeting of something more than 7 million euros and that the other stage is still unfinished the expropriations of the land, it will be very difficult for this phrase, "the German AVE will arrive in Ourense in 2019," that is true. Perhaps, perhaps, the phrase could be illustrated by this photograph in which the Minister of Development said: "We are committed to speeding up all the works so that Galicia can be connected by high speed with the rest of Spain in the shortest possible time." For that shortest possible deadline will be, as a matter of fact, the year 2022. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you look at the last scarce year, and instead of the state of the nation maybe this debate could be called the state of inaction. And that defines what was this year in Mr. Núñez Feijóo's presidency. We need real politicians, not an autonomous community president who can't even sue his party colleagues at the Congress Bureau who vote in favour of the AP-9 transfer to Galicia, who we vote here unanimously; a president who one day says something, tomorrow says the opposite, or says different things as he is here, in Tui or Madrid. We socialists do not want this, we want dialogue, to develop the political and economic changes Galicia needs. And that's why we put forward 40 motions for resolutions, aimed at strengthening public services, modernising the Greek economy and encouraging job creation, strengthening our self-government and, above all, thinking about people, not what we are here, but what they are outside. [[Applause]] Of course, I can't talk about all of them, I can't talk about the 40 proposals, because I wouldn't have time. I'm going to talk about the most relevant to our parliamentary group. First of all, President, I don't know if I'm overly upset, because since I started my exhibition I haven't stopped listening to a runrunrun, runrunrun, runrunrun... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u9	There's something, but it's been worse, but there's something, but you're right, you're right, you're right, there's something. [[Laughter]] So I beg you to keep quiet, because the most important thing is to respect the use of the word, because then everyone will speak.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u10	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u11	That's important, then they'll all talk. We respect whoever is in the use of the word; if not, it's a parliament that doesn't transmit what society wants, and they're looking at us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u12	First, it's about strengthening public services, and that's why we propose an urgent plan to end the dependency waiting lists around 18,000 people who have recognized the right and are still waiting to receive their allowance and may die before they receive it. You've spoken to them lately; in these last days they're talking about enforcing the law, obeying the law, because they're complying with the 2006 Personal Self-Government Promotion Act, which was approved by President Zapatero. Buy it. [[Applause]] Not only can you bring Zapatero's name to this House, we too, and for the greatest reason. And it is commencing with the pace of creating government squares of the socialist too Emilio Pérez Touriño and so Galicia will have, in 2018, 84,000 entitlements to benefits, 24,000 more than you said the other day in your speech. We claim the withdrawal of the preliminary draft amendment to the Galician Health Act, in response to the thousands of people who are protesting on the street, in Salnés, in the Navy, in Lemos, in Valdeorras. And no one's fooling them. Citizens are not idiots, and they know more than anything they want when they go out to the street asking for the exercise of their rights. If you don't withdraw it, it may happen that happens like with that great preliminary draft of the Aquaculture Law, that one day it was one thing and that the next day it turns out that there was consensus with society and that that is why it has retired. [[Applause]] Counsellor, do you remember the thousands of people we were in the square at the Opradoiro asking for the retreat when it rained and peaked? For the same will happen or may occur with this draft health law on health. Show your will for dialogue. We need to strengthen the health personnel with 1,600 new squares, and so we propose, with a primary care professional recruitment plan, because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is shown that strengthened primary care requires a greater capacity for hospitals to function better, with that efficiency that you always assume, which will no longer be saturated with emergencies. They show for once that they actually bet on public health. They're also betting on public education. They vote in favour of our proposal for the Greek Education Act, they increase the number of public squares in children's schools, they change that school transport system, which is already a chaos since it began. Secondly, it's about modernising Galicia, thinking about the economic recovery that seems to be coming. We propose to boost R & D+i to levels similar to those of the European average. We call for an increase in public funding levels so that over the next three years there will be 50 per cent annual increases above the expected growth for GDP. We also propose to complete all pending infrastructures in Galicia, to end that territorial imbalance at once and set population, never forgetting about the environment. This wasn't the country's legislation? They show it and vote in favour of our transport proposals. The other day in the president's speech, unless I am wrong — which can be, of course — we do not listen to the word councils, councils, or councils. I'd say my grandmother, she doesn't have God's forgiveness. We are concerned about the municipalities, and that is why our proposals call for compliance with the local Covenant, so that in 2018 they will return to funding levels of the year 2008, until the adoption of a local funding law that is agreed and dialogue with the Fegamp. [[Applause]] Thirdly, it's about sinking into a greater self-government. President, you have to go — I don't know if here or Madrid — to hit the table and remind Mariano Rajoy and Ana Pastor that Galicia is for something more than to open the Peregrina dance in August. That the president of the board also exists, he is too, and we must listen to him and, above all, listen to him. Accept our AP-9 claim, our request for a sectoral commission in the Joint Transfers Commission for it to be transferred, because we approve it here and we have the capacity and sovereignty to approve it. Accept our demand to the Government of the State to recover the reduction of the fees. Mr. Feijó, dialogue. We demand the value of politics and the need for agreement between the political forces. For the president, it's never time to speak, you can't speak at good times or bad times. You can't talk to change the director of the Galician Radio Television Company at the right time and you don't want to talk about modifying the Galician Advisory Council Act by agreement, preferring to keep as president a gentleman who continues to be investigated by Justice. This is the time to talk, even if it's a bad time. What would be irresponsible would be to refuse to do so. It would be irresponsible to refuse to talk about the reform of the Autonomy Statute. This is precisely the time for dialogue and speech, and that is why we are considering reforming the Constitution in the State and the Statute in Galicia. We socialists deplore the rupture of constitutional order and international law and demand, from today and forever, that of the rule of law. In times of storm, Mr. President, it's just when politicians who are politicians really have to stand up to the circumstances and at that moment it's when they have to dialogue; otherwise it's very easy to do and talk about dialogue. [[Applause]] Today Juanjo Millás spoke, in an article, of: "There must be, there must be," which shows the worst of families: when you have to go shopping, it's almost always the man who tells the woman: "You have to clean the bathrooms"; for a "ha ha ha ha ha ha ha, for his part, we're neither good nor good for us, Mr. President. Yesterday a national newspaper, Diario.es, summoned almost a hundred people, related to culture, in a text, "Voices for dialogue" -- called it -- people who have relations with Catalonia; it spread through networks like powder; thousands of "likes" shouted through dialogue. Let us be responsible, Mr President, and make high-level politics, because making politics at easy times is very simple; the difficulty, and where the rulers really face and move on to history, is when they make politics at complex times. And, fourth and last, it's about keeping in mind that politics is done for people, and there are people, especially young people, women and people who have been unemployed for many years, who need to work. We propose to them a strategy to combat unemployment, agreed with social and economic agents, and to increase resources for active employment policies, to the minimum of 2011 levels. We propose to recover the working conditions of public employees. Let's dignify the public school, the teachers and the teachers again. [[Applause]] They approve our proposal for a strategic plan for gender equality in the rural environment of Galicia, where prevention and eradication of gender-based violence must be given priority over the rest of the objectives. I don't say gender violence; I withdraw expression, president: male violence. Accept our proposal to present a gender identity bill for Galicia, so that anyone, whatever, loves whoever he is or wants to be, has the same rights as everyone else. And I can't forget, we can't forget from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, two words that define us as socialists: humanity and solidarity. There are people outside our borders who are waiting and who are asking only one chance to live dignifiedly in freedom. We only have 159 refugees from about 1,200 who would have to come to Galicia, and that should shame us. [[Applause]] We are ashamed of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. That's why we propose to ask them in Spain, we propose — in line with our motion for a resolution — that they comply with their obligations to never smile at us again. We also ask for a quarterly report on the reception plan for refugees in our community and establish a support program for those Greek families who are more decent than many of us in this House and have already taken shelter or are going to do so. [[Applause]] And I'm done. I think dialogue and agreement, right now, are the words that have to guide us. We bet on dialogue, to develop political and economic changes from now on; President, we have three years, from now on to finish the legislation, unless you decide to go to Madrid and call elections before. They do not sit in irresponsibility or paralysis and do not deny us the dialogue in this House to be able to approve the proposals of our group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u14	Good morning to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, happy International Day of Decent Work, proclaimed by the International Labour Organization. It's good to celebrate it in a country where 17% of the working class doesn't give you their salary to get out of the risk rate of poverty or social exclusion. That's the model you want to consolidate for the people who work. [[Applause]] Not even working and having a salary guarantees you to be able to live decently in this country. We will begin by surprise: we will vote against the motion for a resolution number 37 of the People's Party, from appreciable to the king's speech; I think it is a great surprise for all. We read it, we didn't see abdication, we didn't see the republic, so we'll vote no. Besides, because we don't accept lessons in democracy from Franco's heir. We do not accept lessons of democracy from who is in a position for which he was not voted and who gives a speech worthy of being heir to the heir of franchise. He lacked style questions: "the Red Ones", "captive and unarmed the Red Army." She's been missed with style issues, but it's known that copies are always worse than original ones. That is why we are not going to vote on that motion for a resolution. [[Applause]] Mr. Felipe VI won't give us any lesson in democracy to the people we've always fought for. Well, with Mr. Feijóo's intervention two days ago, we have lived a new "marmot day": the agenda of problems is the same as we have seen since the beginning of the crisis, the solution folder remains as empty, the matter with which the non-existent People's Party government is shaped is the sovereignty of an absolute and absolutely ineffective majority. You're a supporter of Wednesday, not democracy. You tell them it hurts Catalonia, it hurts Galicia. Stop rhymes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. The only thing that hurts them is to lose power and that their friends in big business are lowering their profits. That's what Mr. Feijó said about the objectives of the Catalan process. He said it was not to lose power and to keep doing business. That's what he was looking at in the mirror, because he thinks the thief they're all of his condition. But you don't care about the sacrifice of the common people, and when propaganda doesn't work, the non-existent government activates the talk of fear. They are supporters of Wednesday, not democracy. I'm afraid it's good for them to cover up all their irresponsibility and lack as a Government. Fear to demonize any critical, dissident or disconformity voice, which discusses their authoritarian policies, their complicity with corruption, or the sacrifice of the austerity they impose, for the benefit of a minority of speculators, or the spoil that ends with our natural resources and common goods. Fear that one day it's called Venezuela, fear that another day it's called Catalonia, fear of the Okupas, fear that they title them as phobia tourism, fear of hiding their government failure, decision-making capacity and commitment to this country. [[Applause]] What Mr. Feijóo came to do the other day is to advertise and spread fear, and to threaten the citizens and citizens who are inconformity, whom we represent, and say that we put ourselves out of legality. Stop disguiseing their authoritarianism with a cloth of legality, stop encircling citizens and citizens with fears, lies and falsehoods, stop making black lists of rebellious citizenship. And we tell them we're not afraid of them. We know you're practicing the dirty war, but we're not afraid of them. We know they make black lists, we're not afraid of them. We know they coerce and threaten, but we're not afraid of them. You come here to represent with great solemnity the role of supreme spokesmen of the party of constitutional order and legality. You mark red lines to decide who is inside, who is outside, who has democratic legitimacy and who represents the tyranny of minorities. That's right, when it comes to exercising it to you, it's right to do it; when it's right to do it, it's right to do it. [[Applause]] You are intolerant with discrepancy, you are the representatives of the Constitution of the Garrot, of the limitation of rights and freedoms, of the forced and forced consensus from a position of force, own of a state of exception, that is, a state where true democracy is the exceptional, where democracy is suppressed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, every democratic constitution has a basic core: the right to decide, the right to democratically decide everything, to exercise fully the right to build common coexistence and policies through dialogue, and to freely decide the relations of our nations with the other nations and with the state. And to remind them of this, the fundamental value of the right to decide everything in democracy, we put forward a motion for a resolution. The value of a political constitution is based on its ability to accompany the changes in society to which it gives institutional and political support, not to cling to immobility. Its constitution is that of immobilism and the garrote. Ours is the one based on the right to deliberate, to decide above all, thus giving full democratic sense to our self-government. They go bad in democracy, gentlemen of the People's Party, because they go bad in historical memory and yet they haven't settled accounts with their authoritarian past. [[Applause]] Its Constitution is at the service of building the required consensus; ours, in favour of recognizing differences, designs, plurality, that plurality that is sacrificed every day in the public media that you manage as a means of party communication. We have brought a resolution to ensure that there is accurate, plural, true information in these Greek media and to achieve an equalization of the current political representativeness of this Parliament in the control bodies of CRTVG. You invoke legality, but you look elsewhere in front of corruption cases that corrode your party and the administrations that occupy the People's Party. At PP there's a lot of support to impose legality on others, while they're looking for full impunity for them. The corruption summaries are drenched by their party leaders. They have no legitimacy to come here to teach law enforcement lessons, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, as much as they pray to them. [[Applause]] For the control and control of bad political practices, we want this Parliament to decide to request the creation of an Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office in Galicia, with the necessary means to sustain an effective, vigorous and anti-corruption struggle. They also talk about coup and constitution. For coups in the Constitution, the People's Party gives them. Don't talk about beating, please. There is no social right recognized in the Constitution that you have not beaten, fucked or lowered. You're immobilist to defend the evil and reactionaries to prevent the good. They do not want any progressive reform of the Constitution, but they pass decrees and laws that are genuine constitutional counter-reforms that liquidate the right to work, to housing or to universalization of educational or socio-sanitary services. So we fought to end the controlled demolition of the welfare system. In health care, your policies are aimed at draining public health resources, jeopardizing the working conditions of the staff, which caters to our children and our elders, deriving patients from private health, because there is always someone who ends up benefiting from it with you. Another one happens both to public education. It's not just Outs or Bridges. In the last eight years, 116 public schools have been closed. At the same time they opened 220 private and concerted units. Again, public money ends up in the private company. It's about converting a public service into the business of a few. We need to reverse cuts in health care and education, to improve service, not to depend on agreements with private companies and to recover public jobs. But well-being is not just health and education. We also need a social welfare system that guarantees constitutional right to a decent housing. Mr. Puy, the other day you said we'd only try this in full once we've been legislating. If you want, I have ten times here that we brought the debate to housing and the defeats this legislation; here I give it to you when this is over. [[Applause]] And don't take the habit of telling lies, because that later fame is very hard to get out of it, Mr. Puy. We need a policy of well-being that addresses new needs invisible for decades, such as the role of care, in which administrations must intervene to prevent this work from always falling down on women. We propose, of course, a Greek pact for conciliation and a Greek strategy for socialization of care. In the dependency, Galicia follows below the state average of requests for assistance to the dependency, and the percentage of effective benefits to the system's beneficiaries is the lowest in the state. We bet on a universal welfare system that reverses cuts, extends rights and responds to new needs. You too only remember the solidarity to speak of Catalonia. Their policy of cutting off and limiting rights is not only an unfortunate example of the destruction of the welfare state, it is also annihilation of the state of solidarity; they market well-being. And to end this Darwinist drift, we urge the Board in our motion for a resolution to increase its social investments to provide financial support for the current Risga's superfluous law through a Welsh citizen income as a subjective right. We also ask for a strategy of attention to homeless people, the provision of a self-contained housing park for social rent that guarantees the right to decent housing. We understand that a shock plan is needed to reduce the number of people in situations of severe material deprivation and a plan to alleviate energy poverty. We cannot tolerate what is happening: that evictions, energy poverty and poverty have the structural character of this country today. And their policies fight this with superficial makeup. They're not willing to face the structural changes this country needs so there's no energy poverty, so people don't run out of housing and stay out of the street and so people aren't poor and they can have a decent life. They only worry about the electoral wear and tear of these problems, not these problems. [[Applause]] It is essential and essential that child and family care programmes, at least the average expenditure of the European Union, be strengthened to promote a plan of shock against child poverty in Galicia, which has increased in these years of crisis in a spectacular way in an age-old tranche where the continued effects of this situation are often irreversible and start the chain of poverty. We have to cut through the blood to cut that chain. We need to expand the coverage and protection of our older people and it is necessary to require the Government of the State to derogate pension reform. We must assume without means of ink a policy of recovering the purchasing power of public pensions. We need to improve the situation of dependent people and their caregivers. We have to provide a German self-help system and compromise the necessary economic arrangements to ensure compliance with the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. You fail in management but also in empathy. In Marea days ago, at the Congress of Deputies, he broke the coalition of silence and was able to open an investigation commission on Alvia's accident. You were left alone, the People's Party, in the infamous defense of silence; the victims want to know the truth. And we in the Galician Parliament again defend the opening of a research committee on railway safety. [[Applause]] You have to give answers, you have to report and you have to predict that there will be no tragedies like those that happened. They have zero empathy for the victims, and we don't know what he's hiding. Real equality and non-discrimination of women cannot be achieved with declarations, it can't be achieved with headlines. We advocate that the public policies that we make take a cross-sectional look, which is the way to take feminist policies into all areas. We defend that at least 1% of the budgets are intended for these political lines. We need solidarity to help alleviate and solve those problems that shame the world. The inaction in the face of the Syrian refugee crisis makes the lessons of humanity and human rights, of democracy, that you have been doing throughout this session, all these days, a farce; farce because Mr. Rajoy has breached his commitments in the face of an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. You don't have the legitimacy to teach about this either. This Parliament and the Galician Union, for dignity and humanity, must really commit themselves to a plan to welcome refugees. You have renounced being a key part of the development of this country's productive economy as a German Government. The crisis has been used as an alibi to rule out the withdrawal of the self-government of German self-government, the impulse, control and planning of economic policies, to renounce a determined intervention to dynamize the creation of quality employment and to curb the decline of our active population. A government without economic and industrial policies is not a government. Its policy in the most relevant productive sectors of Galicia was to let it do above all and above all to let the great economic actors get rid of the small and medium-sized economic actors, to the detriment of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, self-employed and social economy initiatives. To cover the absence of public economic policies they invented a law of economic deregulation that euphemistically baptized as a Law for the Promotion of Business Initiatives, which is nothing other than a law for the promotion of the economic policy of common and natural goods, a law for the distribution of the mining, energy and forestry stock. [[Applause]] I spoke the other day that you were betting on the model of converting Galicia to Katanga. Well, by chance, days later, it seemed to me that anyone who wanted to direct the Touro mine to the open sky had just worked in Katanga. Casualties of life. You institutionalize a colonial model of exploitation of natural resources and clothing of progress and wealth creation. That model, known in the Third World for years and years, is not what creates jobs, destroys it; it does not create wealth, destroys it; it mortgages the future of this country, because these multinational companies, when they leave here, leave the impacts that we all have to assume with public money, with our health and with the destruction of our environment, and they go and leave here just the alms. We also need an urgent shock plan against unemployment in those sectors most affected by the economic crisis. We urgently need a plan to fight against labour exploitation, reinforcing the role of labour inspection. You can't afford what's being seen in many workplaces. Labour exploitation and certain conditions of workers cannot be allowed to be structural as well. We need to put on long lights, changing the business and productive model, making investments in innovation and not reducing them, as you did. Mr. Feijóo spoke of the Strategic Plan 2015-2020. In 2010-2015 you promised to increase investment in R+D+i from 1 to 1.5 points of GDP; this strategic plan ended by reducing it to 0.86 %. That's the credibility you have when you talk about innovation as a basis for development. Its economic non-strategy is the deregulation of the economy, letting go of waste, impoverishing the country, and precarious employment. Precarious employment, another of the big problems, especially that affect new people. How is it going to talk about birth if the jobs are unstable, if you don't know where you're going to be in two months, if you don't know if you're going to have work, if wages don't give to live and if that situation doesn't give to plan life in the medium and long term? It's impossible. We need to change that, and you have an absolute disability, they're subject managers. There are countless episodes that show the political weakness of the management of Galician Union. Mr. Feijóo came to act and make a man of state purposely and he is unable even to be respected as president of the Greeks and Greeks to defend our rights. He cannot be as forceful as he was with Catalonia when they do the shameful veto to veto only the debate of the transfer of AP-9, of a law unanimously approved in this Parliament. You should be ashamed when you hide your ears in front of Madrid over and over again with AP-9, with the reform of the energy sector, which harms the country, etc., etc. You are a militant — and a militant subject — of the People's Party. He's not in Galicia. [[Applause]] They sacrifice all the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, they take mill wheels, and they applaud when their government friend does these things. And I conclude — because I'm done talking about Catalonia. Catalonia for you is a pretext for your fear strategy. For us it is a cause for democratic hope. For the People's Party, a pretext for trying to crush once and for all the sovereign will of most Catalans and Catalans, to impose a roof under the exercise of democracy, to proscribe rebellion. They are the alibi to test an undeclared reform of Title VIII of the Constitution, to impose in practice a recentralizing downgradation on all self-government. The application of Article 155 is the wet dream of its authoritarianism, the perfect opportunity to reduce the whole Government to administrative decentralization, the final solution of authoritarian centralism which you so often reigns and so painfully represented the head of the kingdom in your last and unfortunate speech. Their fear is our hope: to be able to decide our basic democratic right. Catalonia makes a democratic demand, wants to exercise its right to decide freely.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u15	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u16	Castelao said Galicia will stop fighting for freedom when it conquers it. And it seems to us very well that Catalonia does the same thing, because, if Catalonia can do it, decide now, Galicia can do it tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u17	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia, members of the Government of Greece, Members and Members, very good day to all. After the speech of the apocalypse, after the catastrophic speech, we are going to talk about the Royal Galician, the Royal Galician, the Galician crisis, the Galician economic recovery, the Galician job creation, that Galician where we all live but the Mareas lords, the BNG lords and the lords of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] I must begin by giving Mr. Sánchez reason; in one thing he is right: of course we are afraid! We're afraid of all Spaniards, we're afraid that Spain will break, and we're afraid that populists will ever get to the government and get to power. Because you're a real threat to our democracy, and that's why we're afraid. And you know why? Because if you ever ruled, they would trample on the rights of the majority, they would trample on the democratic rights of the Greeks and the Greeks and all of the Spaniards. And why? Because you look a lot like the Catalan independentists, and that's what's happening in Catalonia these days: you're trampling on the rights of the whole of Catalan citizenship. And it's your model, because it also happens in Venezuela, which is your reference, than some prominent member of your party religiously cobras. So we're in a very different position, we're not in their positions. Of course we're scared! We are with the Constitution, we are with the rule of law, and we are with the law. Because we live in a great country, one of the most decentralized countries in Europe, a great country that you want to break. [[Applause]] We are not surprised that you are against the king's speech, because you are unwilling to accept lessons in democracy. You accept the lessons of democracy from political leaders like Fidel Castro, to which Mr. Louis Villares fired the day of his death saying, "Your legacy remains; until always, commander." Those are their references; ours, those that come out of the Spanish Constitution. [[Applause]] Look, I'm telling you one thing: those who support hitters are also hitters. Supporting Catalan independenceists is betraying Galicia and betraying Spain, where everyone wants to be. [[Murmurs.]] And, of course, the Greeks and the Greeks are very careful to know where each one is at these moments that are so important to our country. We lived in times of political turmoil -- Mrs. Vilán said, and I think it could be; in addition, it sounded a bit like a farewell speech -- we lived times -- let me say -- whose facts are more suited to a script of a film. Today, in the German Parliament, we have an ex-Mistrate in front of the Tide of Podemos, who is asking, day by day and day, that the laws be violated, and who wants to make this Parliament a sort of monologueist from the Comedy Club; we saw it yesterday making many jokes frivolating into such an important debate as the debate of the state of Autonomy, taking the lead with Galicia. We also saw a Socialist Party, which was on some day broken down from government and is more concerned about what's going on in its ranks than about what's going on in Galicia. And a party that is so nationalist in Galicia and loves Galicia so much that its only roadmap is to copy Catalan nationalism; there are love that they kill, Mrs. Pontón — who is absent. That is the X-ray of what is happening in this Parliament in this debate about the state of autonomy. With these characters, with this script, the opposition of the German Parliament today could be a fun comedy, but it's a real drama for Galicia. And so in this debate of the state of Autonomy, we could see two political realities that our country is living in right now. On the one hand, that of a government and a majority of parliamentarians who present a contrasting balance of what we have done over the past eight years to fight the economic crisis, a government and a majority of parliamentarians who present themselves with a clear diagnosis of what remains to be done — because much remains to be done — and, lastly, a roadmap to achieve it. And on the other hand, we see the reality of an opposition that revealed no ideas for Galicia, no future plans for Galicia and no future in itself. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia today can have a government and a parliamentary majority that is still busy with the economy, taking up employment, taking up economic activity that allows more and more Greek people to have job opportunities in their country every day. Galicia today can count on a government and a parliamentary majority who is sensitive to the problems of the worst they are going through and the most helpful they need. Galicia today can have a government and a parliamentary majority dealing with our rural environment, our land, our sea and our strategic sectors. Galicia can count on us to keep working on improving our health and education from day to day. Galicia can tell that we will continue to make our land a better place to be a child and also to be older. Galicia can count on us to try to continue lowering taxes as much as possible for the money to be in the pockets of the Greeks. And Galicia can count on a government, a parliamentary majority, and a party that will work day by day with loyalty to law, loyalty to institutions and loyalty to our constitutional framework. [[Applause]] This commitment to Galicia and the trust given to us by the Greeks just a year ago emanates the battery of motions for resolutions that we have tabled for this debate from the People's Parliamentary Group, which we are the majority of this House. We are the vast majority of this House because this is what the Greeks wanted, as much as it bothers you. And I remind you because, listening to some of the spokespersons over the last few days, it seems that the People's Group has 41 Members by chance, it has 41 Members who don't know very well why, but the truth is we have 41 Members and we have a stable majority because that's what most of the Greeks wanted when they were asked today exactly a year ago. He said that most of them are sending out a battery of measurements, and this battery of measurements has only one reason to be: to improve the quality of life of the Greeks, to meet their demands and to respond to their needs. That's what we've been doing since the government, from the party: commitment and compliance with what we promise. In this debate of the state of Autonomy, we concrete the selective tax reductions to encourage strategic rural investments, historical helmets and the purchase of industrial soil. We have confirmed the reinforcement of labour policies, the supply of 40,000 public employment squares to reduce the rate of timeliness. We set up our bet on an educational model. We've established our bet on the language and culture of Galicia. We defend the language as we know, which is working day by day and working day by day by him and with him, not as a political instrument, not as an element to divide society, no, no, as a language to communicate with us, as a cultural heritage that is of all the Greeks, it is not of the Galego Nationalist Block. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] We've established our proposal for a useful vocational training to improve the employability of our young people. We made our effort into infrastructure; we will continue to demand that Lugo or Ferrol have a dignified connection with high speed, that socialists promised but never did anything at all; and we will also continue to fulfil our commitment to improving road safety on self-government roads. We made a commitment to the Administration of Justice, as we put it in our proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, following that proposal, let me talk about a commitment to equality and, in this sense, make a brief statement. In his short political life Mr. Villares — who has already left, and we are very afraid that this political trajectory will be very short — has a long list of lies or falsehoods in his speeches. But one of the worst said last Wednesday when he said Galicia was the community with more women killed this year by male violence. Mr. Villares lied, lied in parliamentary headquarters, lied in the morning and repeated the lie in the afternoon in case it wasn't meridianly clear. And that's the leader of the Weird Tides here in Galicia. He lied, he lied because it's not true. And, therefore, it's a practice we don't fully agree with. We believe that no partisanism can be done with macho violence. But it's a much more miserable practice to lie and manipulate reality for partyism. That's what you do, we deeply regret. And while, of course, you're very worried about October 1st and what happened in Catalonia. We too, but that day in Catalonia a woman and her 11-month-old baby died and he didn't have a minute of silence, because the Government of the Generality was with other things; and the observers were with other things as well. That's the concern of nationalism. Look, we also made a proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u19	Quiet, quiet. Yeah, there's runrunrun, too, and... No, no, there was, there was. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's runrunrun for both of us, but we're going to respect what's in the use of the word. We shall end this debate on the state of Autonomy with quietness, which is what follows. That's what they expect of us. Come on!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u20	We also made a proposal: that the Board does not sponsor sporting events in which it discriminates in gender prizes. We want to fight against the scourge of inequality, we do it from the Government with concrete proposals, without lying to anyone, without using data in a demagogic way. We want to fight against the scourge of inequality and do so from clearly concrete issues. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is an eminently rural party. You don't like us saying that, but you do say it very often to insult our voters. We are the party of the countryside, we are the party of the sea, we are the party that represents most of Galicia. And that's why in these motions for resolutions we also have room for our own land and our own sea. We want to value our products, promote the promotion of agri-food quality and ecological agriculture. I suppose the Tides of Podemos will vote in favour of our proposals. We want to boost the partial restructuring, mobilize land in disuse and recover areas to contribute to the fixing of rural populations. As we are concerned about our fishing, we are concerned that Galicia will follow the impact Brexit will have on the sector so that we can defend ourselves and defend our interests. We are, finally, the party that is most strongly committed by the strategic sectors of Galicia, and that is why we are also bringing proposals on industry, proposals on innovation, which come to strengthen the strategy that has been affecting us in recent years to change our production model. And there's an economic sector in which we believe, without any doubt, that you question. We know that tourism in Galicia represents 11% of GDP and 12% of total employment in our community. Some of you wanted to play the interested game of phobia tourism -- yes, yes, laugh -- inventing a problem that doesn't exist here. [[Murmurs.]] That's why we will continue to focus on growing the sector with models that reflect the quality of service and value our natural heritage and the destabilization of our tourism. We will continue to support tourism, we will always do so and we will continue to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, you also say, with deep contempt, that we are the old people's party, the older people's party, that we only win because the old people vote us. And we are very proud to be the most voted party in all ages and also to be the most voted party by the most experienced people; they vote for us, choose us to place their trust in us. And, therefore, something will mean. [[Applause]] There'll also be some guilt in this that we definitely bet on our seniors since the Social Policy Council, which means something about this. And that's why the President-in-Office acquired a huge commitment to dependence, a commitment we already knew because year by year he improved the attention figures of other governments who had much more resources but didn't devote them to dependence. Mrs. Vilán was right: Mr. Zapatero approved the Dependency Law; that's right, he did nothing more, nothing more, just approved it. Here in Galicia, 14,000 attended by the Socialist Party; we will reach 60,000 attended, without the support of the Socialist Party, because you never help at all. [[Applause]] And from this group we want the Greek Government to push the policies of active aging, increasing the number of squares in the network of centres for older people, which increased year after year during the years of the crisis; year after year there were more squares in residences, in alzeimer centers, in day-care centres, in children's schools. That's more to do with less, which you were so upset about. The truth is, you promised and we did. You promised in times of fat cows and took Galicia to the crisis, and we got Galicia out of the crisis, doing more, betting on social policy. That's why you're the third political force in Galicia today, and that's why we humbly have to thank the Greeks for giving us their confidence with that 47.5% of the vote they've reached a year ago. I was going to say, Mr. Villares, take note of this, but, as it isn't, we can't tell you. Because we, who care for the biggest ones, would like to have where the Tides of Podemos rule also done something about social policy, because they use social policy in slogans, in couches, but then, when they rule, they forget the home help service, for example. Yes, sir. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Or forget to stick to that empty housing system, because, of course, it's very good to say things and then we do the opposite. [[Applause]] Look, we have concrete conciliation measures to reverse our complicated demographic situation. We are sensitive to inclusion; hence we also promote that public job offers are increasingly encouraged by a reserve of squares for people with intellectual disabilities. Our group also presents, as I said, the proposal to bet on housing for those who need it most, and here is our commitment to the Social Rent Bonus, the Rehaluga Program, the Reconduit Program or the Empty Housing Program. So who is the antisocial government, Mr. Sánchez? I think it's those of the cities, which are those of the cities in which you rule. But if there was an area that was a victim of its lies, of the lies of the people of Greece, of the lies of the nationalism of the country and of the lies of that socialism, which wants to imitate the Tides of Podemos, if there was an area that was especially the victim of those lies, it was Greek public health. You lied to Vigo Hospital, you lied, and now you know all the beams, that with your health card they can go there and be treated for free. They lied when they talked about health spores and now they're lying about the reform of the Public Health Act. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u21	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u22	You're lying. And you continue to make that policy of opposition, that the Greeks take them very seriously, and so when you have to go to vote, when we all have the right to decide, the Greeks decide and decide that you don't, and they decide that the PP itself; that's the difference. So you're still lying, that's good for you, and Galicia, of course, is good for you. We have a battery of initiatives, but we have a final block of measures, which is the institutional block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u23	Excuse me, just a moment. No, that's not it, eh! Please, please. Please, ladies and gentlemen, on either side or on the other, not that. That doesn't, and you both understand me. That mustn't happen in this House. Look! Go ahead, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u24	The last block of proposals we put forward is a block that we call institutional and what we want you to be here to commit to the Greeks. They're counting on here that you won't want to rule in the next municipal elections where you don't win the election. Something so easy in democracy that it's letting people rule. And that's what happens. And in Tui, what I have to tell you is that the People's Party has been the most voted, the most voted, that's the reality. And we're not going to accept lessons of democracy when there in Boimorto a gentleman was mayor with a concierge. It was from the BNG, of course, it was worth it. There was a concierge, Mr. Mini... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u25	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u26	We ask them to undertake to respect the will of the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u27	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u28	He's trying to let you talk on the replica shift. You deal with the Germans of the diaspora, leave aside their political godfathers, lords of the Tides of Podemos, and stand aside from the Greeks of Venezuela; the Greeks who are under the yoke of a chavista regime and, of course, what they want is to continue to collect their pensions. I suppose you will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution that we have tabled. You, who love Venezuela as we do, support the Greeks who reside in that country. [[Applause]] In this block we want to express our commitment to the speech delivered by the head of state, in which we demand compliance with the constitutional order, something we swear to all that we are public officials, Mr. Sánchez, so simply, unless you swore or promised in vain. But the fact is that the speech of the head of state is the fulfilment of the constitutional order and demands the normal functioning of the institutions and the full vigil of the law in Catalonia. We must thank the responsible position of the PSdEG-PSOE on this issue, with which we were able to reach agreements. May this common sense that the PSdEG-PSOE also extends to Madrid, and his companion Pedro Sánchez also acts with the same loyalty to the constitutional order with which the PSdEG-PSOE acted. We also express our solidarity with the Civil Guard and the National Police in their work of protecting our rights and freedoms, and condemn the harassment that their members are suffering this day in Catalonia. In the same sense, we will also condemn any kind of violent action promoted by political groups in order to intimidate a rival or avert his political activity. We condemn any kind of action that goes in that direction. We are doing so in a motion for a resolution that we have tabled, which condemns the cracks, and we urge all groups to take a stand on this issue. The other day we were worried about Mr. Pablo Iglesias, worried about the cracks, in particular those who were in charge of Podemos in Zaragoza. We condemned this scrape, but we also condemned the scrape suffered by the President of the Community of Madrid — at that time delegated by the Government — and we also condemned this one. This, at that time, was qualified by Mr. Pablo Iglesias as a democratic syrup. No, no, we must condemn all the cracks, absolutely all of them. Therefore, as it is a common sense in democracy, we hope that since the Tides of Podemos will also refuse all the cracks, as the mayor of Barcelona, for example, once in a while, when she was not a mayor. [[Applause]] We ask them to stand against it because we are against the cracks at Podemos' public office. I'm done. We believe that all those who want to be called Democrats should respect the minimum principles of coexistence that are expressed in these motions for resolutions that I have just set out, and these constitutional values. We didn't ask them for any revolutionary postulate, we only asked them to stick with us about the rule of law, about the law. I'm sure they will. We have no doubt because you're also in that position. We know that at least with the Socialist Party we have a lot of room for understanding on fundamental issues, because it is a constitutionalist party. I hope from the rest of the opposition parties if you held a position on the institutions. We tend to reach agreements, but of course, what we have to say is that the opposition has a curious way of understanding dialogue. We present to you in Marea eleven deals of transaction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u30	...and accepted zero. We presented nine transaction offers to BNG and accepted zero. It's a curious way of understanding the dialogue with these parties. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u31	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. The position of parliamentary groups on the proposals of the other groups. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u32	No, I'm not going to tell the president because we have much more education for moments that Mr. Tellado showed up here. [[Applause]] I shall begin with a question which, at least since our group, seems to us to have already rubbed the unqualified, because in order not to politicize from the People's Party — and Mr Tellado in particular — the masquerading violence, you stood up to the concrete absolutely. Because I want to use the Machist murders to stir up the debate in this House, mixing them in addition to what is happening in Catalonia, what I think is a disrespect, and I would sincerely ask you, if you want — because you have the whole right of the world to decide on your own words — to withdraw it. [[Applause]] But if you don't want to, then come on! I think he says a lot about us what we do and what we say too. In that sense, I'm going to tie him up with this. You came here with an absolutely incendiary speech to accuse the others, particularly the BNG, of wanting to copy Catalan independence. We were the only political force in our intervention that focused on the problems of the country, which tried to put the central issues on the table to address the challenges of the future that Galicia has ahead. You have already entered directly, with the fifth post and with a speech — I say — absolutely incendiary, absolutely exalted, and trying to teach us lessons in democracy all over the world. I think you perfectly fulfill the role they have reserved for you, and every time they intervene, they make it clear to you all. With the People's Party we've reached two transactions, you don't know if they're going to go back now, they'll comment on it later. We also proposed compromise proposals to the Group of the People's Party, what happens is that you think you understand dialogue in a unique sense, that you all assume your speech, that you all adhere to your vision of the world, to your reality, because it's the only possible reality. [[Applause]] He was very concerned to say that he was talking about real Galicia — the worlds of Yupi, for moments we thought, from the Galego Nationalist Block, but then with an important part, a rather central part, in addition to the motions for resolutions of his group, with that block that you called institutional, which they intend to put us all in a single story, try to convince us, and the worst of all, to try to create a story of what is happening in Catalonia because of the specific interests of the People's Party. Not a mention of the violation of fundamental rights, not a single one. Not that I say it, is that the high commissioner says it to the United Nations, who also asked that the Spanish State not go to the entrance of independent investigators to see what happened in Catalonia with police charges, police repression and rape. [[Applause]] I say, these are textual words from the High Commissioner for Human Rights of the United Nations: violation of fundamental rights. The most recent, a plenary meeting will be suspended by the court. Here, on the first day of debate, the spokesperson for the People's Party said that no control sessions were called to the Government, ordinary sessions, in the Catalan Parliament. When they decide that they have not even come to formulate their own summons, via the Constitutional Court, and at the expense of the Socialist Party, a plenary meeting is suspended. Great. Great! That's the vision of dialogue, that's the vision of understanding. We believe that we have said it many times and repeat it every time it is necessary: we are in the hands of dialogue, we are in the hands of political negotiation to solve political problems. Because what you're trying to do here is to deny the biggest, to deny what we've all seen live, and to gather the main headings of the international newspapers, scandalized by what happened on November 1st, by police repression in Catalonia. But also the truth — you have to say — is that we have already been used to this too to invent a false account to try to hide the misery of the state, and there is no more to look back at what happened to that 11-M. There were still those who were still years later insisting that it was ETA and not jihadist terrorism! [[Applause]] As far as the proposals are concerned, in addition to trying to install all of us in that incendiary speech by the head of state — we have already said that anyone who wants to hold a position of public representation who is present at some elections — things are inconceivable. The phobia tourism. The others were accused of wanting to get rid of cases that didn't happen here at any time. The only debate that has taken place on this issue in this House was an initiative brought by the People's Party. They now have to bring it back to this motion for a resolution. We've already started having a doubt that stops in the air, I don't know if they can answer us in the next replica, and it's if you really won't feed your violence speech. That's one of the big doubts we have: if you wouldn't want this country to happen, what's happening elsewhere. There are other motions for resolutions, such as number 22, which is an agreement, amputated but an agreement from this plenary; number 26, that of the pensions of the Greeks in Venezuela, it is also an agreement that has already been adopted, at least it has already been voted on here in this House; and now it has made clear to us that the interest was not the pensioners of Venezuela, but that it was directly to launch a speech against the Bolivarian Government of Venezuela. Another one, for example, in number...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u33	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u34	Thank you. In another, for example, in number 36, you ask other institutions directly to do what you don't do. They ask from this House to the Galician Council to urge the other institutions to ensure proximity services, but then, when they are claimed in the streets and in this House to withdraw the law on health law reform because it will assume the disappearance of health areas in the comarcas, they say no. When schools are closed with enough tuition to ensure proximity services in the districts, particularly in rural areas, we believe that you should first apply your own account. We insist, we are not going to enter into that kind of political stance that the only thing they really try is to stir up everyone, to tense and to set fire to a debate which — we say it in our intervention at first — must be quiet, must be a mature debate and must be a democratic debate. We are at a time when many changes are being made, where many new political scenarios will be opened, and it is important that we can collectively reflect as a country how Galicia is going to deal with these challenges ahead. We have our proposals on the table, and I say that what we're not going to do is put ourselves in that absolutely heated position where you want to install us. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u36	Thank you, President. I yesterday, in the press round that touched us to make the vice spokesmen, said that in the speech the other day of President Feijóo gave the feeling that he seemed to the Maya bee flying from flower to flower in a multicolored country. And today, Mr. Tellado, you're like Willy, that fellow who couldn't stop being with the Maya bee also flying from flower to flower in that multicolored country. [[Applause]] Indeed, our reference is constitutionalism, it is the Constitution of the year 78, today and when the Constitution of the year 78 was voted. It has a title VIII which refers to autonomous communities, and we socialists do not doubt, we are not agglomerated or agglomerated, and we vote in favour. The members of the People's Alliance abstained. That's one of the differences between you and us. [[Applause]] We are not complicated with constitutionalism or the Constitution of the year 78, nor even with the previous Constitution prior to the coup d'état of General Franco. [[Applause]] But it is true that Title VIII probably needs reforms, autonomy needs reforms, and that is precisely where our proposal No. 18 is going to open a period of reflection and debate in order to achieve these reforms here and in Congress in order to decide on the reforms. The Greeks have already decided; we decide, whenever there are democratic elections, when we are going to vote and we are going to vote. The other day, on October 1st, a 7-year-old boy said to me, "With what I liked the day of voting, I wasn't going out on the street today." A 7-year-old boy. What you achieved was not making any political decision and hiding behind state security forces and bodies, just as they are now hiding behind the Constitutional Court and the decisions of the courts. [[Applause]] We socialists reprobate all kinds of violence, we regret the existence of all the wounded, and we also regret the irresponsibility of the Generalitat, who did not stop the illegal referendum, despite knowing that there were wounded in the street. The European Parliament is against the right to independence, against Catalonia's independence, as you said this week. And we're against it. It's not worth saying -- and I used to refer to Juan José Millás -- "There must be, there must be, what to do is "that." In these days our fellow members of the CSP have also appealed to the Constitutional Court which has just been resolved today unanimously, Mr Sánchez, and in that appeal one of the magistrates proposed by the former ICU, Mr Xiol Ríos — who, by the way, defends whenever nationalism can, because he has voted in favour of Catalonia's own Constitutional Court, that Catalonia had powers to decide on the prohibition of tourists, voted in favour of Valencia having powers to decide on the law of shared custody; therefore, he is a nationalist, with his roommates and unanimously he has just said that the full envisaged in the Parliament of Catalonia is suspended. By the way, In Comú You can say he'll reconvene again. We want another society; the socialists want another society, a society in which we don't go ahead with the Health Bill, because it will end with our health areas, because, as you said the other day, by the way, there was a law with that little paper that brought us out here President Feijóo, of the year 2008, and that law of the year 2008 already established the same health areas that will be achieved with the Health Bill. Well, then, why do we want to reform the year 2008, if they're identical, and you have repeatedly stressed that it was a law of President Touriño? We don't want the Galician Radio and Television Company of 2011 not to have a law that is developed, we don't want it; we want professionals to respect each day, complain. They're great professionals. Another thing is that you, with your decisions, essentially the General Media Secretary, decide what's coming out and what's not going out on Galician TV or on Gaga radio. By the way, you almost always go out; we, very rarely or, in any case, five seconds. [[Applause]] We don't want the organic law reform of the general electoral regime to govern the most voted list, which is not what the 1978 Constitution says, by the way. We don't want it, and neither do you, because they support minority governments that only have 2 concellers to have one of them as mayor, and even other potential mayors when they only have 1 conceler in other provinces of Galicia. We don't want any improvisation, and you're improvising with the Transport Act, the Transport Act, the Counsellor. Your parliamentary group is asking you to step back in the purpose of transport, because the plan, that transport plan—which, by the way, has been applying for about a month or so, and you know that it was done from above, in an office, with a tyrant and a rule—it turns out that it was left out—of course, when a down to the ground says: "Uf!"—many walks. Ask Ourense, ask Verín or ask Castrelo de Mine and see they answer you, Counselor. You know that they're going to answer exactly this that I'm telling you right now. And now you're talking to the Town Councils, now you are! Now it turns out that the municipalities had something to say in their own moment. That is what we want: that you dialogue before you make your decisions and come here to impose them on your 41 Members, of the 75 we have. They have 41 Members legitimately, we don't discuss it, the Greeks and the Greeks decided through democratic elections, but what they can't try to wear here is the saint who is more democratic than anyone and who defends the autonomous communities and Galicia more than anyone, because in 1978 you abstained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u38	Mr. Tellado, it's hard to take your speeches seriously, because when you come here to make a bad caricature of Rafael Hernando... because it's difficult. First of all, what I'm not going to allow you to lie. Here what lied was Mr. Puy talking about the defeats. Look, the ninth report of the State Observatory of Violence on Women says that in 2015 Galicia was the first autonomous community in murders, unfortunately, unfortunately! So don't lie. [[Murmurs.]] You've spoken of your fear. Look, are you afraid of this little paper, are you afraid of the paperwork, Mr. Tellado? Are you afraid of that? Well, then that's what was done Sunday in Catalonia. [[Murmurs.]] We are afraid of a government, we are afraid of a government that puts the head of repression politics in Catalonia to a 23F coupster in 1981 who has been charged with torture as well. [[Murmurs.]] That scares us, because, in addition, we're on the side that has a still-live memory of what happened here. You don't, but we have that memory, and of course it frightens us with your attitude, Mr. Tellado. They're afraid we're being defenseless when they should defend us and attack us. Of course we're very scared. You guys haven't hung on to that culture yet. He said we're a threat to democracy. Look, the biggest threat to democracy is you; you did trample on the rights of thousands of people who lost their homes during these years, while you gave them 40,000 million that won't be recovered from the banks of this country, and then you didn't even make a public bank of housing for social rent to give those people a solution because they didn't want to lower the price of the housing market. That is to trample on democratic rights, basic rights collected in the Constitution, which are so much said to defend; "the right to decent housing," Mr. Tellado. [[Applause]] You trample on people's rights, the fundamental right to have a decent housing, when there's a situation where they can't pay the bill of light to get warm, while they give the electrical privileges to keep them benefiting and working at the expense of everyone. That is to trample democratic rights. To step on democratic rights is to pass a mordaza law to suppress workers' claims when they were thrown into the street, when they violated their rights, to suppress their preferences, to try to stir up social protest, when there was a situation of social emergency in this country. That is to trample on democratic rights, Mr. Tellado. What lessons do we learn from democratic rights if they are the main threat to democracy, in addition to its widespread corruption, the most corrupt party in Europe, the defendant party? Why are you here, lying? It's hard to take it seriously, Mr. Tellado. You're talking about your proposals. What credibility do many of your proposals have? You're talking about taking care of the job. Look, you've managed to get Galicia to be the state's autonomous community that has the worst evolution in employment in these years; of all, the most jobs it loses, the most unemploymenting and the most reducing of the active population. What are you talking about now about motions for resolutions and employment? What's he coming to tell us? What credibility do you have to talk about it? You say you're dealing with the defiances. Mr. Tellado, tell us what results you have had in your policies against rejections to guarantee the right to a decent home for all people. In these years, five daily challenges. What data can you offer here from the Rehaluga program, which in the first three years had 40 royalties? And you're still selling advertising and propaganda, because in this case there's also contradictions of interest. You put yourself on the side of the big housing owners and don't want to take structural measures that lower the price of the housing so people can access it. So we didn't make Sareb a public housing bank and that's why they keep that house so that the big owners, the banks and their assets, don't get founded. Because you choose, and you choose banks, big real estate and property, and you leave out and you don't choose people who are homeless. And there we speak a lot more than figures, Mr. Tellado. Do you know which collective is most affected by the evictions in this country? Women with children in charge, the most vulnerable collective. Once again, dramas have a woman's name; women who stay in the street. You know what that means? Do you know what that means for a family? Well, it's happening every day in this country, and you keep lying, saying that programs work well, when they know it's absolute falsehood. What are you talking about? [[Applause]] What else is the threat to democracy? What else is the threat to people than that? This country is the second autonomous community that most energy poverty suffers. Almost 100,000 households suffer from energy poverty, and you assume an electric ticket that reaches 3,200 homes because you want them, because they refuse here a non-law proposition that presented this group to increase the requirements, because only families with disabilities or dependent children can access that electric ticket. And why don't people who don't have that right have access to the electric ticket? When we present it yes, IPREM 1.5. If there's 100,000 homes with energy poverty, it can't reach 3,200, and you're running into it. Also, once again, not to disturb the electric oligopolie. You talk about lowering taxes, and your fiscal policy has been very well portrayed in the decree of fiscal amnesty, declared unconstitutional for violating, once again, the Constitution to favor your friends. There's no more to see the list of people who came out in public light than those who welcomed that amnesty prosecutor, who led Mr. Bárcenas. What a shame! Bárcenas, Rodrigo Rat, Ignacio González, Ignacio González's headmaster, the House of Bourbons... that is the Spanish state you defend, the rule of law, the rotten state you defend. That's a shame in any democratic country! [[Applause]] You're talking about employment, too, and that we want to destroy the industry. You're defending a model that hasn't guaranteed employment in this country, that has expelled a lot of new people from this country, and they're still defending Katanga's model as a model of progress, as if we were fools! You lost the opportunity to create jobs in the renewables sector just in the years when jobs were most needed, the years of the crisis. There were opportunities here if you had stood up to Mr. Soria's oligopolie and government, and they didn't want to. This country has enormous potential to develop the small electrical production facilities, in the wind, in the photovoltaic itself, and you once again bet on Villar Mir and company and hid your ears in front of Soria, when it harmed this country. You hid your ears when you passed the state government's decree to penalize self-consumption. Why? Why do you want to penalize or self-consumption? Because there would be a laughter of citizens who would abandon the tyranny of that oligopolis, who constantly cheats, and have self-consumption as a better, cheaper and more respectful solution. You sell yourself constantly, and you pay him, too, as well as you pay him, as well as orders that they are. Every now and then, some rocks fall. Mr. Arsenio Fernández de Mesa is charging €180,000 to know a lot about the electricity sector. Another shame, gentlemen of the People's Party! And you're talking about AP-9. But if you privatize the government of Aznar, with Mr Feijóo as Infrastructure Advisor, AP-9 at a friend's price! And thanks to that price as a friend, that highway we pay all of us and all of us who use it every day earns a profit of 1 out of 2 euros; 1 out of 3 after paying taxes. That's legalized corruption, generalized looting, Mr. Tellado, what you guys do, and they come here to assume something from AP-9. And you allow them to do that shameful veto with lies and manipulations, which they know, that they get colored; they have to read that report from the central government, which does because you don't have enough to ensure that you can't get that business out of the dealership and that we all benefit. And that's why you also refuse to vote on a proposal that we have to study the data of a possible rescue. How do you know we're doing a good deal by not rescuing AP-9 if they have no data or they don't mean it? Why do they deny the truth? Why can't we have official data on how much it would cost us and what are the ways to rescue AP-9? They don't want that either. Why? Because in truth, if it comes to the surface, it ends the task, because these big loots that you're specialists in can only be done in the darkness of certain offices. If people knew, I wouldn't let them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u39	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. He's worried, Mr. Villares, because a competitor came out to see who best imitates Mr. Beiras. That's what we said, Beerism without Beers, which is like Chavisism without Chavez. [[Applause]] That's right. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, after the speech of catastrophe — which is all so bad... and of the apocalypse — I have to tell you that the data contradicts everything Mr. Sánchez says. Look, Galicia is growing above 3% annually in the growth of its economy, growth in exports, growth almost 10% annually, and we have less unemployment than in October 2016, than in October 2015, than in October 2014, than in October 2013, that in October 2012, than in October 2011, and October 2010 and that in October 2009; and less youth unemployment than the average of Spain. That's Galicia you deny. We've had the largest number of social security affiliates for over five years. A Galicia that has an industrial production that grows more than the average of the state and that -- yes, Mr. Losada, yes, sir, as much as bothers it -- a Galicia that beats tourism records and that is a reference in institutional stability. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's Galicia from which you refuse, because you want to criticize the Government and, finally, who they criticize is the Greeks and the Greeks, who are the architects of the economic recovery we are living. Look, you want to stop Galicia. That's the summary of your initiatives. You want to ban reforms in our labour market, which have allowed you to get out of the crisis, you want to ban pension reform, you want to withdraw the reform of the Galician Health Act, which will guarantee the comarcas hospitals, you want to eliminate concerts with private health and education centres — those you keep when you rule — you want to repeal the transport plan — you will still have to explain these concepts with certain companies that have not explained properly — and you want to withdraw the Act to promote the implementation of business initiatives... you are against everything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u41	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u42	And you're talking about dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u43	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u44	...and the truth is, when we offer them dialogue, they don't accept any.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u45	Wait a minute, Mr. Tellado. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet because, if you don't... we're finishing now, please. It's about having a little patience now. Come on, let's finish this debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u46	They talk about dialogue, but then they don't practice it, they practice the opposite. We offer In Marea eleven deals of transaction, accepted zero. You proposed five of us and we accepted one of these. So the story is quite different. Who wants to dialogue here and who doesn't want to dialogue? We offered you eleven, and you accepted zero. And the BNG is exactly the same. We offered them nine compromise proposals and accepted zero. And we, however, have reminded you of two of your proposals. So that's your dialogue. What the PP says, nothing, because you're against the PP, which is the same as being against Galicia, because we make proposals about Galicia, we make proposals for the future. It's a curious way to understand dialogue. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Rodil, you represent the most populist version of nationalism. They're talking about the right to decide. We can ask the president that we want to vote and therefore we want to vote that the BNG and the Tides cannot intervene in the plenary. And we vote. So, is that the most democratic? No, voting isn't always the most democratic. Let us all vote, let us follow the procedures laid down by law, let us follow the procedures laid down by the Constitution, and therefore I believe that this is a good message. By the way, we offer you a unanimous agreement on the issue of gender-based violence, an agreement that broke the Galician Nationalist Block yesterday. That's your commitment. Look, you guys have a very curious way of understanding this. You are asking for a motion for a resolution — in paragraph 14 — to withdraw from the Enterprise Implementation Act and at the same time present a next on relocation. Listen, it's the Business Push Act that aims to fight against the relocation of companies. Hurry up! [[Applause]] Hurry up! [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón wanted to talk about photos, bring photos to this House. So do I, because there are photos that deserve an explanation. I wouldn't be quiet if members of my party were taking pictures with members of a terrorist gang, with people sentenced to firm belonging to the armed gang. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira shows a photograph.]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] This is a picture a Democrat should explain. [[Applause]] You passed this rostrum for a long time and explained absolutely nothing. You will know their curious way of understanding democracy. We, of course, are with the law, we are with the rule of law and we are with the Constitution; we will never be with people convicted of belonging to the armed gang. That's the reality. The Galego Nationalist Block, with Arnaldo Otegi. We have a very different way of understanding democracy. [[Applause]] Mrs Vilan, the truth is we did not know that the date of the debate on the state of autonomy should be adapted to the calendar of the Socialist Party's primarys. We deeply regret it. But don't worry because I think the results will be the same if the debate is before or after, because I don't think on Sunday you're going to fix anything at all. You know, thanks to you, they run mayors in some cities that didn't win the election. Thank you. In Ferrol rules a gentleman who has five concelers in a 25 corporation, and you know who? Thanks to you, to the Socialist Party and to the two transits of the Socialist Party. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's what happens in Ferrol. So you're going to teach them lessons there. And in Tui, I tell you, we're the most voted party. Lessons, none from the Socialist Party. You want to rule by losing; say clearly: you want to rule by losing, so you don't support a reform of the electoral law that allows you to rule whoever wins. Because you know that in two years, what you're going to do is lose in the municipal elections as well. [[Applause]] Look, we're constitutionalists. You were talking about what happened to the Constitution, and I don't think you know or lied. See, in 1978 People's Alliance voted in favour of the Spanish Constitution. There were five members of the People's Alliance who did not vote and left the People's Alliance. And when it was the referendum, the People's Alliance asked for a vote in favour of the Spanish Constitution. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u47	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u48	Look, they respect the Spanish Constitution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u49	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u50	...and the best Iranians as a country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u51	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u52	Look, Mrs. Vilan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u53	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u54	...to equidistancy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u55	Please! [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Vilan, quiet! Silence! [[Murmurs.]] We're going to suspend. What do you think, wait half an hour? Well, then, we're going to be sensible and we're going to end this debate. [[Some honourable Members and some honourable Members: Noon!]] Go ahead, Mr. Tellado. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u56	Look, Mrs. Vilan, equity isn't worth it. And taking advantage of the Catalan crisis to exhaust the Government of Spain is tactics or political opportunism. Call Madrid and tell Pedro Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u57	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u58	Look, in a rule of law, we are in what the Constitutional Court says, of course we do! and therefore we comply with the laws. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the Tides of Podemos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u59	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u60	...we're not afraid of the paperwork, because it's the paperwork...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u61	Mr. Losada!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u62	...the ones that make us into the Government of Galicia. That's the reality. Fear, none to vote. That is what we all vote for, not what we vote for; that we all vote for and that we do so in accordance with the procedures laid down in the law and the procedures laid down in the Constitution. You were talking about the very emotional defiances — in the style of Mr. Beiras — I'm telling you one thing: look, call with the same emotion to the mayor of the Crown and join the empty housing plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u63	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u64	I'm not telling you, tell him to stop wasteful.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u65	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u66	Stop! It's the one who tells the mayor of the Coruña to join.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u67	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u68	That's the reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u69	Sorry, Mr. Tellado. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Mr. Sánchez, be quiet! [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me, just a moment. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez...! Excuse me a moment, please. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Silence! I would like to end this debate without having to call anyone in order. I'd like to... but you can't be in a parliament and have a glass jaw. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You can give — you are one — if you are polite, but you also have to be able to receive. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] These are the rules of the game. You're polite! [[Murmurs.]] Let's be clear. [[Applause]] You have to know how to receive. [[Applause]] And that's it... well, I'm sorry, finally, it's over, it's interrupted. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u70	So tell the mayor of the Coruña to join the empty housing plan, as the People's Party tells him not only but also an organization called Stop Waste, which criticizes the mayor of Coruña, and is of its own party. So that emotion moves you to Mr. Ferreiro. [[Applause]] Look, we've been caring for 1,500 families who were in a compromised situation. Every five days we give a home to a family with problems from the Galician Union. You guys didn't do anything. They're very excited, but they didn't do anything. That's the reality. [[Applause]] Look, electric ticket, energy poverty. We've been caring for 11,000 families. We don't accept any lessons. Eleven thousand families attended by the Council of Galicia; for you, none, because from the Town Hall they did nothing in that direction. That's right, what they did was add the money from that social income to buy bicycles in the Coruña. That's what makes us different. You were talking about corruption. Look, there are things that... of course, we're against all kinds of corruption, as well as what you practice. And so, if you like, we're talking about those minor contracts that are only adjudicative of the signatures of the Mareas manifestos. Listen, I don't say so, El Ideal Gallego says: "The tide grants minor contracts to the signatories of its manifests..." [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u71	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u72	Dino other newspapers: "The tide grants another contract to a signer of its manifesto"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u73	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u74	The Voice of Galicia: "The Tide of A Coruña awards three contracts to the signatories of its manifesto..."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u75	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u76	"The local government of A Coruña awarded La Marea's cousins the contracts of...".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u77	Quiet, please! It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u78	So, if you want, we're talking about Project Cárcere and then, if you want, we're talking about a very curious and very fun case that happened this summer in Ferrol...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u79	Quiet. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u80	...in which the stage of summer parties was being set up by a company and had not yet been assisted by the recruitment board. It's funny! You guys have a way of working out that we, of course, don't want to copy anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u81	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u82	I wanted to talk to you about the refugee question. We offer a compromise proposal to the Merades Group. Mr. Villares, we offer you a proposal. The truth is, I have the feeling that they don't even know what they vote for because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u83	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u84	...the motion for a resolution was copied from an initiative of In Marea...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u85	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u86	...of your group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u87	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u88	...and you told us not to. I have the feeling that they don't even know what they're talking about, and that when they talk about dialogue, what they're really talking about is they're taking their hair to the Greeks and to the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u89	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. We shall proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. And relax because it's 36 votes. Let's take it easy, but see if it works for us. [[Laughter]] [[Mr. Sánchez García asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Sánchez, why do you ask for the word now?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u90	Look, I don't know if this is the time, but I wanted to ask for a separate vote on a resolution that wasn't on the list, which is BNG 40.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u91	Thank you. It's on an aggregated proposal. What we're going to do is that separate vote and the others are kept in this proposal. Well, then, we started the votes. Voting of motions for resolutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u92	Firstly, we shall vote on the motions for resolutions that have been negotiated. We begin by voting on proposal 18315, a motion for a resolution resulting from the compromise drawn up by the Socialist Group on motion for a resolution No. 11 of the En Marea Group. I, if you want, read only the number, because you already know it, to try to shorten it... well, but I... not the devil they tell me later: They all agree... perfect. [[Murmurs.]] [[Assentment.]] So we voted 18315. We vote. Text voting negotiated between G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia and the G.P. of En Marea on motion for a resolution No. 11 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. The text resulting from this transaction is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u93	We voted number two, which corresponds to number 18316. We vote. Text voting negotiated between G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia and the G.P. of En Marea on motion for a resolution No. 28 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. The text resulting from this transaction is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u94	Yeah, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u95	It's just that I think all groups have a list by number of resolutions, and I think it would be easier for us... I don't know if you have the same thing because it appears with the log number...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u96	I've got what happened to me, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u97	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u98	I can say... see, if you want to read otherwise. This one's already voted. Now, the next one would be... see if we understood each other better: Proposal No. 3, negotiated, which corresponds to paragraph 18317 and corresponds to a proposal No. 35 of the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea. Is that all right? [[Assentment.]] Okay. We vote. Text voting negotiated between G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. by En Marea on draft resolution No. 35 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. The text resulting from this transaction is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u99	We are now voting on item 4 corresponding to document 18318 and a motion for a resolution number 14 of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Text voting negotiated between G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block and the G. P. Popular of Galicia on the motion for a resolution number 14 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u100	We are now voting on proposal number 5. It corresponds to number 18319 and motion for a resolution number 39 of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Text voting negotiated between G.P. of the Galician Socialists and the G.P. People in Galicia on motion for a resolution No. 39 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; votes against, 14; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u101	We are now voting on paragraph 6, which corresponds to document 18320, and is motion for a resolution number 9 of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Text voting negotiated between G.P. Mr de En Marea and Mr P. Popular de Galicia on motion for a resolution No 9 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. This text was therefore unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u102	We are now voting on paragraph 7 corresponding to document 18325 and motion for a resolution number 37 of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Text voting negotiated between G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's G.P. of Galicia on the motion for a resolution number 37 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; votes in favour, 20. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u103	And we voted for proposal number 8, which corresponds to... excuse me, 7... I think it's 8. Do we vote for number 8 now? [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Number 8, transaction result... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what you can ask for. It's in the regulation. You can ask, eh! We read. I read it? Sorry, it's in the regulation. [[Murmurs.]] These are traded proposals. [[Murmurs.]] I think they're talking about transactions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, the spokespersons agree on this, but I think we're talking about the transactions, which is normal to read what is being voted on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests.]] No, no, sorry. There's no problem where we read all the things we voted on before, there's no problem, but the others are separated; the others are not readable. If they want, let's go back and read eight. Do you want us to read eight? They're traded, if they want... they're entitled. They're voted... they were entitled, they could have asked for it. [[Murmurs.]] It's the transactions. Now the others... this asks for a group... well. Anyway. [[Murmurs.]] It's a procedure... No, no, it's not... it's what's in the regulation. I am going to read this because it has been asked and says in particular: "The Galician Parliament regrets the episodes that have altered the peaceful coexistence on 1 October in Catalonia and expresses its solidarity and support for the National Police and the Civil Guard in their work of defending and protecting the rights and freedoms protected by the Spanish Constitution to all citizens, condemning the harassment they are suffering from their members, among which are Greek agents and Welsh agents displaced to Catalonia for defending the rule of law and safeguarding the coexistence, security and calm of citizenship." This is the proposal we are going to vote on now. We vote. Text voting negotiated between G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia and the People's G.P. of Galicia on motion for a resolution No. 38 of the G.P. People of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u104	Quiet. Quiet, please. Let us read the results of the vote, which is the most important. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; votes in favour, 20. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u105	We are now entering another chapter of votes, which is the request for a grouping and a separate vote of motions for resolutions. We started with the proposals of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. First of all, we are voting on motion for a resolution No 11. We vote. Motion for a resolution No 11 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 6; votes against, 55; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u106	We are now voting on motion for a resolution No 15. We vote. Motion for a resolution No 15 from the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 6; votes against, 41; abstentions, 28. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u107	We are now voting on motion for a resolution No 40. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, but this is a proposal that they voted separately. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, but it's published. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. Motion for a resolution No 40 from the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 55; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u108	Silence, please, if not, we don't clarify what we're going to vote on. We shall now vote on three motions for resolutions, in particular paragraphs 1, 13 and 34. We vote. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 1, 13 and 34 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 55. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u109	We now vote on motions for resolutions Nos 10, 18, 19, 22, 25, 27 and 35. We vote. Vote on motions for resolutions Nos 10, 18, 19, 22, 25, 27 and 35 of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 41; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u110	Finally, we would vote on the remaining motions for resolutions — not to read them all — of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of G.P.'s motion for a resolution. of the Galician Nationalist Block, except for numbers 1, 10, 11, 13, 15, 18, 19, 22, 25, 27, 34 and 35. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u111	We now vote in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We begin by voting on motion for a resolution No. 9. We vote. Motion for a resolution No 9 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 55. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u112	We are now voting on motion for a resolution No. 10. We vote. Motion for a resolution No 10 from the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 41; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u113	We are now voting on motion for a resolution No 18. We vote. Motion for a resolution No 18 from the G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting was as follows: voting in favour, 27; votes against, 47. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u114	We are now voting on motions for resolutions Nos 4, 6, 8, 20 and 27. We vote. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 4, 6, 8, 20 and 27 G.P. of the Galician Socialists. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 41; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u115	And now we are voting on the rest of the motions for resolutions of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. of the Galician Socialists, except numbers 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 18, 20 and 27. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u116	We are now voting on the motions for resolutions of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We begin by voting on motion for a resolution No. 1. We vote. Motion for a resolution No. 1 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u117	We voted for motion for a resolution number 2. We vote. Motion for a resolution No 2 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u118	We voted for motion for a resolution number 6. We vote. Motion for a resolution No 6 of the G.P. From Marea. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 55. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u119	We voted for motion for a resolution No 17. We vote. Motion for a resolution No 17 from the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u120	We are voting on motion for a resolution No 33. We vote. Motion for a resolution No 33 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 41; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u121	We are voting on motion for a resolution No 40. We vote. Motion for a resolution No 40 from the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 55; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u122	We are now voting on motions for resolutions Nos 8, 10, 15, 20 and 32. We vote. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 8, 10, 15, 20 and 32 of the G.P. From Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 41; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u123	Finally, we voted on the remaining motions for resolutions of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. In Marea, except for numbers 1, 2, 6, 8, 10, 15, 17, 20, 32, 33 and 40. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These motions for resolutions are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u124	We are now voting on the motions for resolutions of the People's Parliamentary Group. We begin by voting on motion for a resolution No. 18. We vote. Motion for a resolution No 18 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 47; votes against, 14; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u125	We are voting on motion for a resolution No 26. We vote. Motion for a resolution No 26 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 56; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u126	We are now voting on motion for a resolution No 32. We vote. Motion for a resolution No 32 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; votes against, 14; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u127	We are now voting on motion for a resolution No 34. We vote. Motion for a resolution No 34 from the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 61; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u128	We are now voting on motions for resolutions Nos 8, 23 and 28. We vote. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 8, 23 and 28 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u129	We are voting on motions for resolutions Nos 3, 6, 10 and 17. We vote. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 3, 6, 10 and 17 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 13; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u130	We are now voting on motions for resolutions 22, 25, 30 and 40. We vote. Vote for motions for resolutions Nos 22, 25, 30 and 40 of the G.P. People of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; votes in favour, 20. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u131	Finally, we shall vote on the remaining motions for resolutions of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of G.P.'s motions for resolutions. Galician people, except for 3, 6, 8, 10, 17, 18, 22, 23, 25, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34 and 40. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 20, abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-06-DSPG043.u132	Mr. Lawyer, do I have to communicate? Nothing else. Well, then, there's nothing else to communicate. We have to ask. There could be something to communicate. This is normal to ask. This closes the general policy debate. The session is up. Thank you very much.
