ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. Item 6 of the agenda, which corresponds to questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on compliance with the current legislation in the fight against male terrorism
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u2	We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u3	Good morning, gentlemen. I want to start my speech with a recognition of feminism, of feminists, because without them, without their courage, courage and rebellion, surely many of us would not be in this Parliament, nor would there be laws against gender violence. But much remains to be done to win the battle against macho violence, which strikes, humiliates, rapes, and even kills women for the mere fact of being. [[Applause]] From micromachisms to murders, we see how male violence affects all areas, and the most serious thing is that it manifests itself with a social normality that even blames the victims. Male violence has caused more than 5,000 women to come to the trial every year to file complaints against male violence. Gender violence has caused more murders than terrorism, but the social and institutional response is not the same. In our November, three attempted feminicides and four women's murders were produced at the hands of their comrades. I wonder — as many women do — that would happen in ten days if they killed four deputies and tried to kill three others. What would be the social reaction? And, above all, how would he react to the Union and the power of the State? I know the answer to this question is uncomfortable, but the question is absolutely necessary. And in this context, Mr. Feijóo, we want to ask you whether you honestly think your Government is doing everything it can to fight against gender-based violence. From the BNG -- we've been telling you -- we don't think so. To begin with, his Government is in breach of the Galician Law against violence against men; and secondly, the resources allocated to us seem really insufficient to deal with a problem that affects half of society. In that sense, we want to make two very specific proposals today that only need political will to materialize. First of all, to allocate 1% of Galician budget to combat gender-based violence; 90 million euros, 1 per 100 euros. It doesn't seem extraordinary to deal with a problem that affects 52% of women. And secondly, he believes in the area of the Directorate-General for Justice a unit responsible for implementing the Welsh Law against gender violence. A unit that has very concrete objectives: to put in place specific trials of gender-based violence in all cities; to ensure gender-based violence training for all professionals involved in the judicial process; to avoid institutional violence, for example, by recording statements by women and their children so that they do not have to go again and again, because it is shown that this causes many to end up withdrawing the complaint. Or that we make sure a woman never has to be in a courthouse in our country waiting in the same room as her aggressor. Obviously, there are many things that can be done to fight against macho violence, and that is a struggle that involves society as a whole. But the governments, Mr. Feijóo, must set an example and must move from words to deeds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, you speak in your question of fighting against malevolent terrorism. Can the actions of women's murderers and abusers be regarded as acts assimilated to acts of terrorism? In my opinion, yes. Therefore, in the face of any topic of terrorism, politicians always react in the same way, which is to make a unanimous condemnation, maintain unbreakable union and continuously take a position of unanimous rejection. Considering that we agree with the qualification of a man who produces aggression simply because he is a woman, who even reaches the result of death, and that this should be regarded as a matter of terrorism, terrorism matters are always state affairs, and that is why in the debate of the state of Autonomy we are proposing to make a pact in the House against male violence. We made that pact of the House and moved our conclusions to the General Courts to get a state pact. That state pact is signed and, therefore, Mrs Pontón, since we have a pact, the first is that we must comply with it. I've already told you that the Government of the Union is going to abide by that pact, and in no case are we going to break the unity against masculine violence. Therefore, don't tell me about a party struggle in this matter because I don't think women deserve it, nor does Galicia deserve it. We will continue to apply the law, of course yes, each and every one of its paragraphs. We will continue to encourage new measures to promote union and effort among all. And we're going to spend more money than ever. Those are the three measures. Your Honor, Galicia is one of the autonomous communities with more measures for the benefit of the woman. We are the only autonomous community that lays down periodic measures to help victims — I say the only one —. We're an autonomous community that has work integration projects, permanent psychological care, treatment of trafficked victims, 24-hour legal care. We are one of the few autonomous communities that we face in all cases of gender-based violence as a result of death. We created in 2014 the first Galego Observatory of Gender Violence. And it is within the beginning of the social commitment against gender-based violence to include these teachings in the education sector, so that no Member or Member within ten or fifteen years has to debate in Parliament what you and I are discussing. So we keep moving forward and we're going to keep moving forward. What I do think is not very reasonable, Mrs. Pontón, is to try to confuse and try to distract people. You're talking about devoting 1% to the budget for gender-based violence, and putting data on it: 90 million euros. Your Honor, it's amazing how in 2008, when you took this matter, you spent less than 4 million. If in 2008, you spent less than 4 million, with more than 1,500 million budget, I suppose you'll have to explain it here. We spend more money than ever with 1,500 less budget. That's why, Mrs. Pontón, all the budget increases are insufficient, but since I inherited the Government of Galician Union because the Greeks have so decided, the increase in the budget of the fight against gender violence has increased by 91.3%. Mrs. Pontón, let's be serious about gender-based violence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, I am convinced that if, for you, malevolence was terrorism, every time we see a crime or murder, or talk about the gravity of that problem, the answer would be much more than a link and a minute of silence. I'm absolutely convinced. [[Applause]] And, of course, it won't teach us any lesson about the Galician Nationalist Block in the area of unity in the fight against gender violence. Among other things, Mr Feijóo, because we have always been in each and every one of the agreements — they seemed insufficient, small or little — to fight against violence against women. And if there is a regular aid in this country today that is a right of women when they suffer from gender-based violence, it's because there was a government where the BNG was pushing that law. By the way, a pioneering law that was already telling them that some of the measures and the way that the State was taking in the fight against gender violence was a mistake, such as linking social assistance to making a complaint. [[Applause]] More than ten years later, the state recognizes the mistake and follows a path that we have already opened here in 2007 with the German Law against Gender Violence. And, look, to avoid partying, you follow in opposition to the Bipartite. It's really scary to see you again and again opposing a government that doesn't exist. And I think that's really not what women deserve, and much less women who suffer from gender-based violence, who saw how that government was the most done in Galicia's history to fight against this serious social problem, which is gender-based violence. [[Applause]] We made a proposal, which is more resources, because in the same way your party said there was no need for a German law against gender-based violence and now recognizes that yes, now, when we're saying more resources are needed, it seems to you that with 5 million we solve the problem. And, of course, as the problem is not solved, Mr. Feijóo, it is with campaigns that undermine the dignity of women like that shameful campaign that has set in motion their government. [[Applause]] And I want to tell you that women are neither a cathedral, nor a bridge, nor a wall, women are not heritage, women are human that we don't need to be protected; what we need are rights and that society responds when they're attacking us. [[Applause]] We, Mr. Feijóo, know — and you know as I do — that the Welsh law of violence against women is in breach. And this Parliament, Mr Feijóo, reminded you at the beginning of this year, the first time that we were talking about a Greek pact against gender-based violence. By the way, an initiative driven by our group. And there you are pointing out that there are shortcomings in the field of justice, in the field of psychological care, in the field of vocational training. And you come here to tell us that as there are 5 million...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u9	...that we'll see if they're all executed or not, as there's 5 million, there's nothing to talk about. I think that's a very negative message for society. There are obvious problems in how justice works. Are you willing to create this unit in the area of justice?, yes or no? These are specific questions, Mr Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u10	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u11	...that they only need political will. Because if violence is terrorism, we really answer how they respond to State terrorism, Mr Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pontón, I do not oppose anyone, which we cannot admit in the House is that you take us as fools. If you come here and say urbi etorbi that you need 90 million euros for this chapter, and you just said that you were doing more than any other government in the autonomous community, but it turns out that you spend less than 4 million euros, I suppose you or your party want to joke about Parliament and Galician women. And as I represent most of Galician women in the polls, obviously I won't shut up, neither they nor us. I'm not going to shut up about that way to fuck people. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, everything is questionable. What is not questionable is that the assumptions for gender-based violence have increased by 91% as compared to when you ruled. You don't like the Galician Union campaign. It's an interesting way of supporting campaigns against gender-based violence, criticizing them. On March 8, we campaigned for Women's Day and the title of the campaign was "Women: Galicia's largest." No one criticized that campaign, it's here at your disposal; no one. Now we go back to another campaign, followed by the previous one, and we say, "There's nothing bigger than a woman who fights against abuse, and nothing less than a batterer. Galician biggest don't be mistreated." [[Murmurs.]] You don't like campaigns, you know why? Just because you don't. But that's your responsibility. I'm not going to discuss either the campaigns or their plans, what I'm telling you, Your Honor, is that before there is the BNG and before there's its government, in 2002, a government approved the first plan of action against gender violence in Galicia, 2002 to 2005. The first equality law was approved by a government in 2004, and we constituted the first network of local entities against gender violence for the first time in 2012. The only government that is humane against the murderers is this government, since 2013, in all the judges. The first victim recovery centre was made available by this government. And we can go on, we're the only autonomous community with regular help. We can go on, Your Honor, of course we can go on, but it's not about talking about this anymore. Against gender-based violence, for me there are no abbreviations, there are two bands: murderers and abusers, and women. You tell me which side you're on, but being on a side just against a government of the People's Party doesn't seem like a proper approach. [[Murmurs.]] That's why, Your Honor, we're going to keep working next to you, bad that you care, even if you don't like it. We will continue to work in front of all those who want to fight against these acts of macho terrorism, even if you don't like it, Mrs. Pontón. You don't have the monopoly on women's defense, that's an insult to the 700,000 voters of the Galician People's Party, most of them women. And since I think we're not here to insult anyone, I'm going to keep working. After this session I'll actually go with the directors of the first division football clubs, 2nd A and 2nd B to launch a campaign this weekend at all stages of Galicia and work from sport against violence. Do you know why, Your Honor? [[Applause]] Because that's our job and that's our commitment. Therefore, Mrs. Pontón, as much as I look at myself in that way, I will continue to work with BNG in macho violence. As much as he criticizes us, we're going to be ruthless against the terrorists who continue to murder women. And as much as you look bad, the heritage of feeling and the heritage of social commitment is not a heritage that you can deny to anyone, and much less to the president of the board. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the policy developed by the Government of Galicia in the field of forest reform
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u15	Question by Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u16	Good morning. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, you assume this is going to be the legislation of the countryside. He's not being. And if we take a balance since 2008, that time should be proclaimed the time of rural regression. You must know that there is a clear sense of abandonment; people who live outside cities think it matters less; couples with children have difficulty reaching schools; there are increasingly villages without people; there are many public services that disappear; there are difficulties in accessing financial institutions; pensions end up becoming the main source of income in many areas of Galicia because we lose opportunities. Look, out of every five people who were busy in agriculture in the broad sense when you got to the presidency, they're only working now 3. We've lost 70,000 hectares of useful agricultural surface since you've been president. We have only about 20% of agricultural area in Galicia, but we have another 20% of the abandoned area. The land is abandoned, and at the same time, the remaining farms — less and less — lack the land they would need. Galicia has a serious problem of abandonment, but it also has a serious problem of agrarian and forest structures, with dramatic consequences, as we saw this month with the wave of fires. Look, we have less than 70,000 farms, but we have about 1.6 million rural owners and about 11 million plots. We have 600,000 forest owners, but we have 6 million plots on the mountain. With the fall in the number of agricultural producers, more and more land is available. There is room to do everything in our territory, there should be no conflict, and at the same time farms are too small, they have to grow in size, they have to expand their characteristics, reducing external dependence on fortresses, for example. There's land available, there's land needs in many farms, but what's prevalent is abandonment and the difficulty of marrying both. You started wrong. In the 2009 election campaign, Galician citizens were threatened by the fact that, if they didn't win, their lands would be expropriated by means of an instrument that was Bantegal. You went wrong, you removed the Land Bank, you left the carcass but you took off the engine, and therefore it had no real effect on the reorganization of the agricultural structures. I thought he was an interventionist, and you thought it should be the market that regulated the reorganization of agricultural structures. He also eliminated Uxfor, replacing them with Sofor, but these didn't work. He again eliminated Uxfor because he considered them too interventionist and wanted there to be an instrument where the public sector had less paper. The results of your policies are not to be presumed, they are to be rectified. Between 2013 and 2017 the areas declared for the purposes of CAP premiums fell in Galicia 150,000 hectares, 25%. And the number of beneficiaries of these premiums rose from 36,000 to 30,000 in just four years. These are the latest results we know. So, Mr Feijóo, are you willing to rectify a failed policy on agricultural and forestry structures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u17	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u18	Your Honor, this is going to be, and it's going to be, the legislation of the countryside. I'm telling you with absolute conviction, because that's the government's commitment. The first thing the Government did was to maintain the level of CAP funds, EUR 2 billion between 2014 and 2020. It wasn't easy. The second thing we did in the Government was to make a legislative framework with three very important laws to make decisions in rural areas. You tell me we eliminated the Land Bank. No, we made a different land bank. The Land Mobility Act is a law that we passed in 2011. We made the first Law of Galicia Mountains in 2012, and approved the Law of Improvement of Galicia's Land Structure in 2015. We did something that didn't do any government, which is to set zero taxes in rural areas. You don't want to talk about it, but there are 26,000 Greeks that in the first year of that exemption did not pay a potato for transmitting, selling, milling or permuting their farms. So, Your Honor, what we're doing is the greatest impulse of partial restructuring that has never been done, as a third consideration. I mean, at the end of this legislation we're going to deliver more concentrated hectares than ever in any other legislation of any other government. Nothing more and nothing less than we're going to deliver 116,000 acres to 92,000 beneficial owners. It's not bad, considering it's the greatest impulse to territorial management that has never been done in the autonomous community. And as a result of all this, I would like to say, because we pay less taxes than in the rest of Spain and because there is support for modernization, there is a greater incorporation of young people into the agricultural and forestry sectors, so I am surprised by that diagnosis. I'm also surprised that you're talking to me about infrastructures when 80% of the Welsh population is less than ten minutes from a high-capacity track. And we're investing in road infrastructure, within the framework of rural roads, more than 36 million euros. When I got to the government, most rural areas didn't have a basic infrastructure, Mr. Leicega, it's called the Internet. Most of them didn't have internet coverage. And now the Internet coverage in Galicia is 98%. I'm also surprised that you're not talking about the success of the wine sector in Galicia, where we're increasing wine production by almost 9% and we're exporting 69% more. I'm surprised you talk so frivolously about the dairy sector, when it turns out we have an increase in milk production of 16.4%. Galicia has never produced as much milk as it does now, despite the liberalisation of quotas. I'm surprised you don't give any importance to ecological agriculture because we tripled the production of organic agriculture by three. And I am surprised, Your Honor, that you underestimate the capacity of Galician wood because we have 50% of the total timber cuts, for example, in 2015, and the billing of wood in the autonomous community increased by 11%. Mr. Leicega, you, who is an economist, I am surprised that you do not see the weight of the primary sector in Galicia's gross domestic product rising more than ever. And I'm surprised you don't take EPA and unemployment to believe that in EPA the weight of primary sector employment increased by 12% in 2016; and unemployment decreased, for example, in agriculture and forestry by 8% in 2016. So, Mr. Leicega, what's a lot left to do? You have no doubt. What would I like to count on you and your group to keep working? Nor do you have any doubts. But I don't underestimate the Italian countryside, Your Honor. The people of the Italian countryside deserve a chance, and I, of course, am here to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u20	What surprises me is that you don't question any of the data I give you, which is data all taken from official sources of the Galician Union. In particular, in the EPA in 2008, there were 117,000 people employed in agriculture, the last finding is that there were 70,000. From 117 to 70 there is a small fall, which is exactly what happened during his period of government. That's what happened, Mr. Feijóo. You decided in 2009 to rely on market forces to restructure the agricultural sector. He eliminated timidly interventionist measures, it wasn't a big deal. It was probably an ideology, a political calculation, I don't know, and that policy failed. The market had no capacity to do what was to be done, which was a much more serious structure policy. At the Land Bank, of which you didn't tell me anything, in May 2016 there were only 970 hectares voluntarily handed over, and only 8% of the farms that were in the Land Bank were rented. The curious thing is, it's an instrument that could work, with the data that exists today. Why isn't it working? It doesn't work, firstly, because you dismantled it, you left it without personnel; because you didn't do the complementary pressure measures so that there would be an effective transfer of good estates to the Land Bank; because you stopped applying stimulus measures and because, with that data, there were delays that would discourage the behaviour of people who might come to it. You do what a report from your advisor says, and I'm going to quote it textually: "The low price of leases doesn't compensate for the problems that these delays cause, and they're driving interested people to look for other ways to improve their territorial structure." That's what the advisor says in a report I have here. And the Sofors, there are only five of them, which we're going to do! After six years, five, with a very low number of hectares. You quoted the zero tax policy. Yes, but at the same time, your services — and you have to know — are working with Mr Montoro to pay for the transfers of law [...] as a capital increase, causing serious problems to many agricultural holdings that have this situation. The Fire is decommissioning progressively, as the agricultural advisor well knows, and in many of the aids proclaimed at the end it comes to those who need it most. That's the situation of the rural environment, and you have to be willing to adjust. Look, we're proposing to strengthen the Bantegal, to make more personnel, more means. It's essential for him to do the functions he has today, but much more so for him to do the functions he has to do in the future. We want it to serve as an intermediary for the purchase of whole farms, which can act for the productive mobilization of abandoned neighboring mountains, specifically supporting those solvent projects that need land and do not have them, and managing abandoned private farms. And we don't ask him to eliminate the Sofors, we just ask him to correct what doesn't work and put in place complementary instruments much more flexible so that there can be a forest exploitation of round corners much more solid and much more intense than there is now. I'm done. Point to pragmatism, Mr Feijóo, because what is at stake is the future of the rural environment. A future must be given to farming. We have to give those people who live in rural areas a future. And we have to make the territory alive the best protection we have against forest fires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u21	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, I'm on pragmatism, don't worry. As I pointed to pragmatism, we had to regulate Uxfor differently. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because there was not a single request that had met the requirements of the decree. I know, Your Honor, that some Members who are not from your group don't like it, but what are we going to do with it? If they do a frame where nobody meets the requirements, or we change it or we don't focus on pragmatism, Mr. Leicega. And as you and I want to focus on pragmatism, because we're going to continue to focus on pragmatism. Why did we have to modify the Bipartite Land Bank? Among other things, because it was only intended for agricultural use, not for forest use. What do you think of the nonsense? Isn't that pragmatic, Mr. Leicega? With eleven million plots in the catastrophe, it turns out that BNG prevents the Bank of Land from having plots of forest use. Doesn't that sound like nonsense to you? That's why we had to change it, Mr. Leicega. And pragmatism must be pointed out: change it. You say there's only five Sofors. That's why we're changing them. I hope you support the proposal for the Law of Measures to amend the Sofors. It can't be that two or three owners who don't want to rent, they don't want to exploit, they don't want to sell, they don't want other owners who want to exploit a mountain to do it. We agree. So, we keep pointing to pragmatism. You see how when we turn to pragmatism we're in favour. In Folgoso and in Coruel we are making traditional chestnut sauces thanks to these measures, mobilising the lands, the large areas; pastoral lands abandoned in the Ancares; production of pasture in Sober; the highest concentration made in Qualedro and Oimbra voluntarily. Why? Because we change taxes and now you can group plots voluntarily. That's pure pragmatism. Pure pragmatism is to simplify the cutting of eucalyptus and pine trees with a prior notification, and not to establish a number of measures that make the forest industry impossible. I am therefore surprised that, as you point to pragmatism, you have voted against all the pragmatic proposals we have put forward over the last ten years in forestry and agriculture. The laws against it. But, Mr. Leicega, now we have an opportunity, which is the commission we are setting up. Do you agree to review the forest plan? We do. Do you agree to establish management plans for the 19 forest districts? We do. Are we in favour of improving pastoral areas? Are we in favour, indeed, of incorporating the Land Bank in a cautious manner the parcels of unknown owners? We do. Are we in favour of incorporating the Land Bank into the part of the neighboring mountains in common hand that do not put the exploitation on? We do. You, who is a pragmatic man, too. And as far as pragmatism is concerned, what this is about here is to collaborate. Mr. Leicega, you are now a high position of the Socialist Party in Galicia to ensure that the mayors of the Socialist Party are in the task of fulfilling each and every obligation, in the same way that we have to make the mayors who support this party are also to approve these measures. See you, Mr Leicega, with pragmatism in the Commission. By the way, Mr. Leicega, I hope it will be much easier to deal with you than with other socialists. For example, the first week of December we are going to see the President of Castela-León and the President of the Principality of Asturias. I would like to say that if we are able to deal with the Socialist Party in Asturias, we are able to deal with the Socialist Party in Galicia. I trust you, Mr. Leicega, he's a pragmatic man. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the reasons for the inability of the policies of the Galician Union to shift the nominal increase of Greek GDP to a decrease in social inequality and the precariousness or improvement of public services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u24	Question by Don Luis Villares Naveira, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, I hope that at that meeting you will have with the President of the Principality of Asturias and with Castile-Leon you will be more fortunate than with regard to the last meeting, where I think you have agreed to ask the Spanish Government, the Development, a departure from the freight train different from the one put forward centrally and centrally by the Government of Spain; a corridor that was functional to our country's interests to take out the goods to Europe and that made the most competitive economy, and do not receive the same answer as they received from Fomento, that nothing until 2027. See if you're luckier next time! Going with the question before us, an anti-competence government is the one with resources who is unable to manage them well. Our question is obvious, and we've been doing it for a long time without getting an answer: why, if we have the same wealth in Galicia as in 2009, we have to live worse, we have to live with less rights and we have to live with more inequality? You recognized in the debate this week that the 2018 budgets will be made taking into account a wealth that is equal or already greater than we had in Galicia in 2009. However, despite leaving the recession crisis, people have not come out of the social crisis, and you know why? Because you can't share the available wealth. Galicia will have the greatest wealth in its history but people will never be richer than ever, and this is because the Government can't share wealth. There is a clear example, and it is that during this year 2,000 million euros are being paid less in wages than before the crisis; 2,000 million euros less with the same available wealth, and this by two specific circumstances. First of all, because we have a better job than before the crisis. The wages are lower. On average, 8% lower. And those who are more precarious, 25% lower. And there are a lot of people who charge the same as in 2009 but with an IPC that rose by 12%, so they're 12% poorer. There are also 300,000 people who pay below the minimum inter-professional wage, especially young people; and there are 89% of jobs created since 2014 that have a temporary nature. With these wages, many people don't reach the end of the month. You pay less in wages, but you pay less because there's less work than when you get to the government. Specifically, we have the same wealth as in 2009 but with 2,000 million euros less paid in wages and 143,000 jobs less. This which has been denounced in Marea yesterday was constantly carried in all the media by a report issued by the BBVA Foundation. Galicia still has 143,000 jobs less than before the crisis. This is what we call at the moment a work anomaly in Galicia. Between 2009 and 2013, during the recession, you were responsible for Galicia being the fifth autonomous community where most jobs had been destroyed. And since 2014 onwards, when we left the recession but not the economic crisis, not the social crisis, we were the second autonomous community where employment has grown less. The overall result is that we are the autonomous community of the entire Spanish state with the worst evolution of employment. And why is that? Because between 2009 and 2013 you brutally cut budgets, and since 2014, already with the growing economy, you make your budgets grow less. There is a cover cut. In order for everyone to understand it — you will understand it very well — pensioners had an increase in pensions by 0.25%, but the IPC has grown by 2%. So I'm 0.75% poorer. Do you deserve your pension? Apparently so, but not really. That's what happened here with your budgets. Before the crisis, Galician budgets were about 20% of Galician wealth, and today Galician budgets are less than 15% of Galician wealth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u27	It's over. The more budgets are budgeted, the less the economy is raised, and therefore the less jobs they create. The only thing that increases is inequality. Wealth is there, but it's broken. And the question is clear. Why, having the same wealth as before the crisis, do we have to live worse? Why does inequality increase, Mr. Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u28	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u29	Thank you very much. I note that you're developing the best. I'm saying that first you've been denying that we were leaving the recession and the economic crisis, and now you're asking a question saying that Galicia is coming out of the recession and the economic crisis. It wouldn't be for you, of course. But as we're actually getting better, you're already starting to accept it because there's no more remedy left. First they were talking about no, which was beginning to grow GDP was the result of the oil drop. Then they said that all the macroeconomic paintings on the board were false. And now it turns out that, when we're growing 3% in the last few years, they start to recognize that we can no longer cover the improvement of the economy and, therefore, they attach themselves to other approaches: for example, deny the positive effects that economic recovery is having on public services. Your Honor, there is more health, more education, more social services and more justice now than in times of economic kindness. By giving you data, we're investing in healthcare for citizen 1,433 euros; 15.5% more than at the beginning of recovery, in the third quarter of 2013. Today there are nearly 1,500 health professionals more than at the beginning of the 2013 recovery. And if it hadn't, 2018 is the year with the highest health budget in the history of the autonomous community. [[Applause]] In order for you to review the figures, the budget is 3,858 million euros, 92 more than in 2009. Tell him to pass the numbers, Mr. Villares. Is there more education? Yes, and in fact we are the autonomous community with a higher ratio of teachers per student from Spain, including those where the tides of Podemos cogover. Do we have more social services? Yes, and we have more social services because we have 32% more per capita social spending than we had at the beginning of recovery. And we have more justice because we have 41% more per capita spending than we had at the beginning of recovery in the second quarter of 2013. In short, today we have invested 1,800 million euros more with a budget of 1,500 million euros less than we had in 2009. That you didn't know about this data? Well, for me, of course, it's no smaller data. If the busy grew up in Galicia in 90,000, according to EPA, it's not a smaller data. If unemployment has dropped to 82,000, 31%, it's not a minor data. If the unemployment rate continues below Spain's rate and we have 7 points below the unemployment rate when the start of economic recovery started, it's not a minor issue. And we have less unemployment in the Greek homes, nothing more and nothing less than 33% of the members in full unemployment in the Greek homes, 29,800 homes less. And if we have greater confidence in homes, which has increased the confidence of households by 21%, and if we have fewer homes with difficulty to reach the end of the month, it is that, Your Honor, we are sharing, as far as the possibilities of economic policy in the Union are concerned, our resources. Your Honor, today we have more public services than at the time of economic kindness. And I think that's the great responsibility of this government. If you want to talk about pensions, we'd have to go to the Congress of Deputies. If you want to talk about health in Galicia, about health in the Navy or about health in Salnes, let's talk about it here. If you want to talk about the Greek homes, let's talk about it here. If you want to talk about the poverty rate, you have the chance to recognize, in the box, that today the poverty rate — according to INE — is lower than we had in 2008. We are one of the five autonomous communities in which the poverty rate today is lower than we had in times of economic kindness. That's why I'm surprised, Mr. Villares, that he doesn't read correctly. But, in any case, in this turn you just told me which is your industrial policy, it would be fundamental. And even you're sure you're going to brag about your social policy in the councils where you rule. It would also be fundamental. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Villares' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u31	It's good that you ask me your questions to know how to govern. But don't worry, you'll have a chance to be in the opposition, the time will come. [[Applause]] You know, democracy is like this, sometimes on one side and sometimes on the other. [[Murmurs.]] We know that sometimes democracy doesn't do well, but we're going to do it! [[Applause]] Look, when you were talking about oil prices, we were talking about a report by the Banco de España, which is not made by the Mareas, which refers to glued winds, which are those that add part of the rise of gross domestic product, the increase of wealth. They account for 70% of this increase in wealth, precisely those so-called glue winds, including the oil drop and the interest rates of the European Central Bank. That, in case they didn't put it on his papers, so they could put it on him. Maybe they didn't put an idea, or a concept, that in the economy is called "the monetary veil," and that makes it, in order to compare some magnitudes and other of the budgets of the years, as you say, 2009 or 2008 with the years 2017, or, as in the papers they did there, 2018, it is necessary to take into account, among other things, the evolution of inflation to avoid making a measurable comparison between some data and others. If you did, if you raised the money veil, or if you took the veil out of your eyes, you might see that those figures you're giving are not real, and that therefore the budgets in real terms are, for the specific case of health -- that's what you're talking about -- nearly 400 million euros below. So a covert cut, and also, in this case, discovered. [[Murmurs.]] But it is only that, apart from health care and the concrete provision of health services, for example, we who are from Lugo have to suffer from a 24-hour hemodynamics service, so that if people infarction outside office hours, they have a 34% less chance of surviving than they did in working hours. And that, of course, we believe it generates conditions of inequality that are not acceptable within the population of Galicia. You're talking about homes, too. Well, look, within Galician homes, today, in relation to the year 2009, they're about 20% poorer, because they have half the Greek families 20% less purchasing power than when you first sat there. Besides, there are 62,000 homes in Greece with all their members unemployed. And there are also 700,000 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion, more than 25% of Galician population right now, but in addition to Gini's rate, which measures social inequalities, has increased in the last year — not since 2008, in the last year — from 27% to 28%. So what are you talking about? We are with the same wealth as before the economic crisis, but we continue with the social crisis. Because for us the crisis won't happen as long as we haven't recovered all the rights we had before and as long as we can't continue to increase rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u32	Thank you, Mr. Villares. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Silence! President's response to the closing time. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u33	After this masterly economic lesson, we continued the turn of interventions. Look, Your Honor, on the assumption that you would ever rule in Galicia, in that so-called imaginary, we'd like to know as Greeks if that proposal that you have in favor of self-determination, that is, of Galicia's independence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u34	Mr. Lake, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u35	If it has much to do with independence from the economy, let them ask Mrs. Colau and Catalonia. Escaped companies from Catalan planning: 3,500; less creation of companies in Catalonia, down 27%; increase in unemployment; decrease in tourism... i.e., just your policies, Mr. Villares. More inequality and more poverty. I know you don't want me to talk about this, but it's your political model. And political models, of course, have economic repercussions. But I also know that you do not want to talk about this because the honourable Member next to you says that the right to self-determination is irrevocable, and the honourable Member next to you says that the territorial model is absolutely different from the model of Anova, Mrs de Podemos. Mr. Villares, we're not very interested in what your model is, because you probably don't have it, but, since you wanted to be president of all the Greeks a year ago, you should specify what your political model is, because from there, there's an economic model. Mr. Villares, stop defending one thing and the opposite, and see that the country is taken seriously. That's your problem. Look, Your Honor, we are not governments that we are dedicated to asking for referendums of independence, even from the Greek municipalities. We are a government that is focused on economic recovery, and that's the big difference between that government and its political, ideological and economic lacking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u36	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u37	Mr. Leicega, the third quarter EPA...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u38	I'm sorry, I'm sorry for a moment, president. Quiet, yesterday you complained that you were interrupting. Who's interrupting here? Who's interrupting? Please be quiet. The same thing they want for you, for everyone else. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! No, no, you're not in the debate. Silence! Go ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u39	Your Honor, this kind of discussion is good for them to keep the door closed. I understand that they have internal discussions, but it's good that they keep the door closed, because if you don't, Madam, we know that you don't agree with Anova's, the Anova's don't agree with you, and the spokesperson doesn't know whether to listen to them at Anova's or at Podemo's. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But the Greeks have the right to know what their model is. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u40	Silence!, no, no. Sorry, it's on the subject, it's on. Yes, yes, perfectly, perfectly! [[Protests.]] No, no, sorry, Mr. Cal... No, no, excuse me! [[Protests.]] I've been attentive to the question and I'm attentive to the answer. Yes, yes, perfectly. [[Strong murmurers.]] It's all right. Quiet, quiet! Mr. President's finished when he matches. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u41	I've only talked about Anova and Podemos. I'm glad I didn't talk about Left Unity, because otherwise there would be a third element of discord. [[Murmurs.]] Look, don't you realize, Mr. Villares, that we're in a democracy? Don't you realize that coming to the House with questions of data change is a lack of respect for the House? Seven out of ten employees in Galicia have an indefinite contract, 70%. When we got to the government it was 68.5%. Busy full-time: 87% of Galicia's busy are on full-time. In the middle of the European Union, 80 percent, that is, there are seven more busy points in the whole of Galicia than in the middle of the European Union. Indefinite recruitment: three years of growth of indefinite recruitment; in October this year it rose by 20%. Full-time recruitment is growing in 2013, in 2014, in 2015, in 2016 and in 2017.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u43	Don't you realize, Your Honor, that manipulating the data of poverty is an insult to inequality in Galicia? Reiterrollo: 3.3 points less than the average of Spain. Today we have a lower poverty rate than we had in 2008. Your Honor, believe me, you're more interested than talking about your internal problems than about economy. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] Yes, what do you want the word for, Mrs. Pontón?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u45	According to the Rules of Procedure, in Article 77 of the Rules of Procedure, any group or any Member may request compliance with the Rules of Procedure at any time. And I want to ask the regulation to be observed in relation to Article 76, which has to do with inaccuracies or the decor and dignity of our group, and allow me to explain it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u46	I'm sorry, tell me exactly what inaccuracy is, which, as you well know, according to Rule 76, is valued by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u47	Yes, yes, when there are statements that relate to the dignity of our group, or inaccuracies. So, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u48	So, what was that?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u49	If you'll excuse me, and quietly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u50	No! Silence! You're not in the matter, which I know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u51	Today, the president of the Galician Union, in his reply to our group, slammed out some accusations that I think are very serious. We were asked if we were on the side of the aggressor or the victims when we were making a critique...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u52	No, that's it, Mrs. Pontón. I'm sorry, Mrs. Pontón, I'll answer that. Look, I know which side this group is on, perfectly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u53	No, no, but I ask you, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u54	No, no, it's not worth it. I know perfectly well, and I understood perfectly what the president said. And at no time did I consider it offensive because I know which side this group is on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u55	I want to ask the president to withdraw that statement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u56	No, you don't, Mrs. Pontón...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u57	If not, I've already told you that we're going to file a formal complaint, because in the face of political criticism, what's wrong...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u58	No, Mrs. Pontón, you don't have the floor. [[Applause]] You have no word, Mrs. Pontón. No, no, no. Silence! You don't have the floor. Thank you, Mrs. Pontón, it's not up to you... No, but it's clear. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] It became clear to me. Thank you. It's no argument. No, I'm clear. [[Pause.]] Please, if you can go out as soon as you have to go out, better, so that we can go on with the full. Because if you don't, you have to give it to the full a little bit more dynamism. Of course, it's going out like this... too... you could go a little further up the stairs, and not all of them, I say! [[Mumurios.]] We continue with the agenda, with non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles García Míguez and fourteen other Members, on the intensification by the Galician Union of collaboration with local bodies involved in the Network of Councils against Gender Violence, to achieve greater resource effectiveness and develop joint actions in the areas of awareness-raising and prevention, information, training and assistance to victims
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u59	Amendments have been made to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u60	To formulate the proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u61	Good morning. Our proposal in this issue is clear: joint work as a pulse against gender-based violence. From here our initiative to today, to intensify collaboration with local authorities that are part of the Council of Councils against violence against the masculine. We have a legislative basis that supports us, we have our 1981 Self-Government Statute, our Organic Law on Comprehensive Protection against Male Violence, against Gender Violence, and we have our 2007 Welsh Law on Prevention and Treatment against Gender Violence, which covers the concerns arising from the Istanbul Convention itself, which deals with equality from within the European sphere. In its additional second provision, our Greek law reports, thus, interinstitutional agreements and collaborative instruments that we specifically read: "The Government of the Galician Union will promote the formalization and updating of interinstitutional and coordination agreements between the various authorities and public administrations with competences in the subject matter of this law, which serve as a channel of action and collaboration to achieve, in the areas of police, health, education, justice, labour and research, comprehensive and coordinated care and assistance to women suffering from gender violence. The Galician Union will enable the instruments of collaboration necessary for the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence." All of this relates to our Spanish law of the year 2007. But it's the year 2012 when the General Secretariat of Equality, together with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, sign an agreement with two very concrete purposes. The first is to promote the establishment or activation of local institutional coordination tables against gender-based violence. And another of these points is to push the local network against male violence. Local coordination tables are operational instruments where all areas of the city directly or indirectly involved in the fight against gender violence are represented. The mayor or a concierge presides over the table and can extend this representation to the representatives of the information centre to the woman, the local police, health services and educational centres, among others. Local coordinating tables have very specific objectives: early detection of cases, optimization and coordination of the agents involved, providing care and agile response to the victims, improving protection in cases that present high risk, and providing information and awareness both to professionals and to society as a whole. The local coordination tables follow two basic lines of action, which are prevention and intervention. Prevention is aimed at avoiding new behaviours, new situations of violence, through the training of professionals with awareness-raising strategies. And the intervention will determine the common procedures for action in each case, according to the available resources, and these resources in our very wide autonomous community. We have 81 women's information centres throughout Galicia, five foster homes — in Culleredo, La Coruña, Lugo, Ourense and Ferrol —, Vigo's Emergency Centre — the Cemvi, Vigo — and Santiago de Compostela's Integral Recovery Centre. In 2016 a second phase of the activation of local coordination tables was launched, which was organised through the Network of local entities against gender violence. In that year there were 163 municipalities, and 58 of them had set up this local coordinating table. In 2017 this momentum continued to improve the effectiveness, coordination and optimization of local coordination tables with four meetings — one per province — addressed to political officials and municipal, professional and social technical staff interested in activating local tables against gender violence. The meetings were held by province: in Coruña, 39 provincial municipalities and the Mancomunity of Orders participated; in Pontevedra, 26 provincial municipalities participated together with the Mancomunity of Salnés; in Viveiro, Lugo, 15 provincial municipalities; in Verín, 16 municipalities and 5 communes of Ourense. The objectives are very clear: to make local coordination tables visible as an operational, effective and stable tool in the fight against gender violence; to provide the tables with a planning to meet the targets for which they were defined; to strengthen a joint and collaborative work dynamic that facilitates the exchange of knowledge and experiences between people and the administration itself; to increase the degree and effectiveness of institutional coordination that contributes to improving the prevention and care of women victims of this violence; to achieve greater involvement, participation and collaboration of all agents and authorities in early detection in cases of violence. Thanks to these meetings, since the month of April, eight more local tables have been held in Cuntis, Lama, Mancomunidade de Santa Águeda, Lousame, Santiago de Compostela, Trinidad, Mondoñedo and Chantada, and yesterday the Sanxenxo Town Hall was added. Another of the important points that brings us here today is the impulse of the Network of Local Authorities against gender-based violence. This is what is stated in the agreement signed with the Fegamp and the Vice President in 2012, as I already told them. The aim is to gain greater effectiveness of the resources used by developing actions of awareness and prevention, information, training and assistance to victims. The General Secretariat of Equality will launch a virtual space for information exchange, experience and good practice among members of the network serving as a network and as a source of exchange of experiences and information. Additional scores will also be given to those municipalities that integrate the Network against violence or that are part of a local coordinating table. All actions offered to entities that are part of this network do not entail economic costs for any municipality. The activities are: educational workshops for children, focused on prevention and new forms of violence in the digital context; prevention of situations of gender violence with a course of self-defence and self-defence, provided by monitors of the Galaga de Loita Federation; a play-musical and pedagogical show that analyzes gender roles; different exhibitions, counselling programs in family therapy for children who have suffered direct or indirectly male violence; briefings on gender violence by the staff of the Santiago de Compostela Integral Recovery Centre; and briefings on trafficking in human beings for sexual exploitation purposes. Currently, the number of local entities belonging to the Network of Gender Violence, by provinces, is 67 municipalities in Coruña, 35 in Lugo, 35 in Ourense and 41 in Pontevedra province; a total of 178 municipalities that form this joint network of work against violence by men. We hope that all groups will support this initiative against gender-based violence this week of November 25, which, as we said yesterday, is at the age of most this year. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u62	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u63	Good morning. I'm really sorry that today we have to change the tone and we have to say what I'm going to say today in this gallery. Yesterday we brought up a proposal on a question related to macho violence and we were able to reach a consensus. But today, between what we just heard from Mr. Feijóo and the proposal brought by the People's Party, I really don't have much of a word. Mrs Miguez and all of the 15 Members and Members who sign this initiative should indeed withdraw it from this House and from all the women in this country. They should withdraw it and I'll explain why. Look, I've been in this House for a year — just one year — but I can assure you that since the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group exists, we have seldom seen such an exercise of cynicism and political shame. Because, look, what they bring -- because they didn't read it anyway, but I'm going to explain to them what it is -- the motion for a resolution that has its GNP, is literally -- literally, except one line! -- an agreement with the Fegamp that already exists. Not only the agreement to which Mrs Míguez referred — and which she presents practically and literally the 2012 one — is that the new agreement was signed on 15 November. This is a coat of hair! What are you bringing us here? [[Applause]] A convention that theoretically has to be applied. I mean, do you get a legal text that theoretically you already had to be doing, something that has already been approved? But what kind of hairskin is this in the Welsh House! But really! if they don't have any proposals, tell the opposition, we'll bring them forward in a positive way to improve it. But, of course, this is not receipt. [[Applause]] It's not a receipt when we have to come here and tell us if we're on the side of the aggressor or on the side of the victims. It is not from receipt when constantly, and exceeding with much the line of that iron jaw — or crystal or whatever, which always says Mr. Santalices we must have —, by far exceeding that, you far exceed the limits of respect, as Mr. Feijóo has just done. You say the amendments proposals -- they still said so in an instant -- were irresponsible, they were cowards. They constantly infantilize and despise our proposals, constantly. And then do you intend to come with this and let's not say anything, let's applaud your ears? In 2012, the Fegamp agreement already contemplated something that you failed to comply with, which mentioned the voicemail itself, which was to make available, via telematics, this topic of campaigns and so on. And right now they bring us a proposal that is the literality of that convention — as in a coma, with missing spelling included — and they say that the campaigns on gender will be given. Man, I'd just miss it! It would only be necessary for the Greek administration to have an equal material and not be able to use a council if you ask for it! I'd just miss it! We are absolutely shocked by this proposal. Actually, I didn't give credit when I saw her. I cannot believe that the political group of governments, which has forty and one Members, which I say will not lack a network to consult and advise their proposals, will bring us this real disrespect. I really can't understand it. The opposition we make mistakes, very many!, and surely my parliamentary group what else, I assure you! But this can't be random. This is a coat of hair. I really can't believe that the Government group, which has direct political responsibility for something as important as masculine violence, brings this and the emergency procedure. Isn't there something else that happens to them? Really? It's really unheard of for us, it's unheard of. And I really feel I have to do this, but I think this -- and just what Mr Feijóo just said -- is an absolute lack of respect and decorum. In any case, for us, the priority continues to be to advance in the protection and treatment of victims of male violence and in the eradication of male violence. So when this parliamentary group decides to take Parliament seriously, we will be there to talk. We are going to talk, for example, about the issues of those local tables that we understand there is a need to improve. We made positive proposals when Mrs López Abella came here to explain to us the last protocol they have just adopted. And we have so many more questions to say, we have so many questions to move on. Like, for example, the next time they decide to spend €160,000 on that campaign... that, logically, on March 8, we criticized it, it didn't seem right to us. But let Mr. Feijóo say that there was nothing to say and that now we do it for politicizing is authentically regrettable. Because, with the addition of violence, you don't see the gravity of that issue, which indicates that you didn't understand anything at all. But — as I tell you — when you want to talk about these issues, we can talk about them and we can suggest, for example, that instead of devoting EUR 160,000 to this, which reinforces the CIS. Because a CISG has an average of 30,000, 40,000 or 50,000 euros, at best, of budgeting. They compare that campaign to the work a CIM can do. Or, when they want to be serious, we can talk about what we keep thinking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u64	Finish it, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u65	...that the treatment of people with some type of problem of the LGTBI collective should be treated not as an annex and an appendix of the CIS. Or we can talk about a lot of other things, but, really, they don't bring here to approve an agreement that already exists, as already assuming...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u67	...not you yourself comply with your law and your agreements, please, because it's not serious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u69	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Yesterday an initiative was presented to us, among other things, about the importance of the return of competences to the local administration, since experience confirms that the closer they are to administration and citizenship, the more effective the measures of awareness, education or early detection, and the more effective the response of urgency or the follow-up of services. At your initiative, Mrs Garcia, they are talking about jointly developing awareness-raising and prevention, information-training and victim-assisted actions, making use of resources; ultimately, more efficient. As Mrs. Presas said, nothing new that does not exist, indeed, and is not reflected in an agreement. Overall, this parliamentary group supports this provision for cooperation and coordination between the autonomous institution and the local authorities. But it is true that we believe that there is a need for strong economic support from this Government. Because the coordinations, the collaborations, about the paper are very good, but they suppose an effort that doesn't keep itself but needs budget that sustains it. This claim, which seems obvious, is always in the debates of almost all initiatives, especially those that propose concrete actions. And if that is the case — and by all groups — it will be for something. We try not to destroy by destroying and affecting the steps taken, but rather the opposite. We seek, and I think it is the spirit of everyone and of all, to strengthen and push — in this case, it is more, more — with new actions and measures all that are policies of equality and of fighting against gender-based violence, which, sadly, are so necessary. And if something knows one is that even taking off a phone to talk has a cost, it has a cost of time, consumption and maintenance. So they don't want to sell us today that they're going to push all these measures and that they're going to do it with the same budget as they were counting on last year. In particular, under Chapter 460 of the 313B Programme of Measures to Promote Equality and Prevent Violence to Develop by Local Authorities, the same forecast is maintained for the start of the 2018 budgets as for 2017. Hence, in our amendments we propose that, in order to ensure compliance and implementation of the four previous measures, it is necessary to provide the same as the precise budget support, by committing the Government to a percentage increase in this programme until it acquires it by 2020. It's not worth talking about giving us what we need when, for next year, if this initiative has been approved, no increase is expected. And more stock, more budget. We see it that easy. On the other hand, we believe that this need for budgeting by the autonomous Government must be accompanied by the claim to the Government of Spain for the fulfilment of the economic commitment agreed in the State Covenant against Gender Violence, with the aim of allocating, through transfers, departures corresponding to autonomous communities for the development of the corresponding measures referred to in that covenant. And let's not be mistaken. The shares to be allocated, according to the State Pact, give an average of EUR 2,460 per municipality per year — above. They'll tell me you'll make a council like Ourense's or Vigo's with this amount! Nothing. As it is obvious that we are talking about an insufficient amount, you will understand that we must support budgets with extraordinary shares by the self-government. We won't spoil the state offer, but it won't stand without the autonomous contributions. Even so, we believe that it is necessary to urge the Government of Spain to initiate the procedures for the necessary legislative amendments to the object of the return of competences to local authorities in the exercise of equality policies and against gender-based violence, as contained in the Covenant agreement. All you propose today would be much more accurate if this transmission of competences could accelerate. Yesterday, we called for this in our initiative: agitating and urgent compliance with the deadlines laid down in the Covenant. All of us here are aware of the difficult legislative changes, so we have to give you priority and try to take the first steps as soon as possible. In view of these amendments, this parliamentary group would be willing to support the initiative. But I would also like to make it clear, Mrs Garcia, that we cannot ask for support for initiatives that are not new and that are obviously reluctant — or I would say that it is allergic — to proposals from this group that speak of urgency, of agility and of working for short-term work. In any case, each one is located where he sees it, and you're standing today where I think they shouldn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u71	Thank you, President. Good morning, before I begin, I want to make a clarification, which sometimes seems important by listening to the president's words. For us, the fight against macho violence is fundamental not only on these dates, but, of course, all year round. And another thing that's very important too: against all forms of macho violence, because we often only focus on the most visible and the most cruel, but we forget what happens in an unconscious manner, which are completely normalized and which also have to be visible and combat them. We subscribe to all the words of the two spokespersons, of the Galician Nationalist Block and of the PSdeG, and we believe that there are issues of this initiative that come from a very partisan perspective. Of course, we agree that it is essential to count on the councils and, in addition, that in the fight against macho violence these administrations have a fundamental role in the vicinity they have and that ease they have to count on society, as we say, the closest administration. But we need to improve coordination with these in a collaborative way, not imposing certain issues on them and not leaving out certain municipalities — which we understand is what this initiative is intended for. And, above all, we have to budget them. It's not worth anything that we discharge responsibilities in the municipalities, as in many other matters, if we don't budget them later. Because, if not, everything will remain in empty words, as coordination, as this coordination protocol also mentioned here, which is of course a good basis but which is of no use if there is then no sufficient resources to put all these protocols and all these measures in place, both in the coordination protocol and in the German law itself against the violence of the macho. And maybe it was a good time, ten years later, to evaluate what we're missing, because the data is still chilling. And we understand that there is no strict assessment of this, because the annual assessment, as well as the procedure, is not coming. That's why we make a few amendments to change the perspective we understand that you have this text and to include all the municipalities. We agree — and in fact, many municipal tides are part of the local coordination tables — that can be a good step. But these local coordination tables have to work — let us say — with more support from the Administration than with an information leaflet. We understand that in order to promote them, it is not enough to do information talks, but it is necessary to provide specific protocols, specific budgets. And, above all, as long as not all the councils are attached to this network, it will be essential that the fight against macho violence be done with all the municipalities, not only those that are attached to it. Because then we'll be leaving out a part of municipalities that are also fundamental to the fight against macho violence. And we agree that joint work is fundamental, joint work within this Parliament and, of course — and perhaps more importantly — with the people who are outside, with the whole society. But we think there are certain attitudes that do not favor or facilitate this collaboration at all. That's why we also took advantage of this intervention to make a call for attention, and we expect a correction from Mr. Daniel Vega, who made public statements on the radio, on the Ser, on Monforte, where he spoke of the "Black Against Violence" campaign being exaggerated because it was a struggle campaign as if women died every second. I tell you, Mr. Daniel Vega, that women don't die every second in the world, but if we die every year, we die every month and, perhaps, we are also sexually assaulted every day, every 8 hours. And, at best, if it's necessary to visualize it, it's not exaggerated at all. [[Applause]] And besides, this deputy also said — and it's public, fortunately it's public, he didn't say it in a private conversation — that all violence must be condemned, alluding to a case of child abuse by a mother. These are totally intolerable statements. It's the banalization of macho violence. There is absolutely no use here bringing these kinds of initiatives with absolutely intolerable declarations. I ask you to correct, publicly correct, beg your pardon. Because the banalization of macho violence cannot go out politically free. I hope that the spokesperson for the People's Party will get rid of these statements. "We're in mourning" is not an exaggerated campaign. Of course we must be in mourning!, today, November 25, and every day of this year, because they are killing us, assaulting us and sewing on a daily basis; often also the public administrations themselves — let's talk about the Galician Union campaign on which we bring a specific question. But very much in line with this, when we're seeing all the mediation of the famous San Fermin aggression case, we see how the Ministry comes out with a wonderful poster that, fortunately, has already withdrawn. We women are not raped for wearing a certain dress, we are not raped for drinking alcohol, nor are we raped for being irresponsible. We're raped because there are rapists, because there's machismo. So they should have made that clear and stopped having that paternalist and machist vision, and ask forgiveness for certain actions and certain kinds of... I don't know what I was going to say. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Closure of the proposal not of law. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u73	Good morning again. I'm going to tell you that today you won't find me in your party struggle, I don't think it's up to you today. Today our proposal is a positive proposal, Mrs. Presas. If you haven't prepared the subject, you don't read the subject and you don't know it and you don't know it, it's a positive proposal, a proposal for all the municipalities to join the fight against gender violence, all the municipalities through the local coordination tables, and to join through the Municipal Network against Maltreatment. I think it's a positive proposal. We already know it's a proposal coming from 2012, it's not a novelty. But what the Galician Union wants, the work of the Galician Union, is that the municipalities join and that all activities can be done in a free way, as I well indicated in my proposal. Of course, today the carnace doesn't touch. Political flesh, on a subject like gender violence, I don't think it's up to you. I think we have a responsibility from this Parliament, I think we have to show our Galician society that we are all groups, in Marea, the Galician Nationalist Block, the Galician Socialist Party and the People's Party supporting the victims of gender-based violence, supporting the children of the victims of gender-based violence and supporting women victims of gender-based violence. [[Applause]] I therefore believe that this is our proposal, I believe that the State Pact is the reflection of this initiative, a state pact in which the positive measures of all political groups in this Parliament have emerged, which we support all political groups in this Parliament. And we show that we have an autonomous community that is united in that state pact against gender violence; a state pact that was adopted at the last plenary session of September, September 28, at the Congress of Deputies. That's our hope, our joint work. And, of course, as the President of the Galician Council said, we hold every political force, if they want to work together against gender-based violence, against all the dead women and to support their families and their daughters and their children. For my part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u74	Thank you. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos asks for the floor.]] Madam Presas, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u75	If you give me a word, I'll explain. On the basis of Article 77(2) of the Rules of Procedure, it is to request that a document be read in this House before this debate is over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u76	What's the document, please?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u77	I wanted to read the final part of the cooperation protocol between the Vice President and the Presidency Council, General Secretariat of Equality and the Fegamp signed on 15 November 2017.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u78	I think that's already commented on in the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u79	But since Mrs. Míguez didn't prepare the initiative and I did, so that the whole House could know what literality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u80	Sorry, sorry, Mrs. Presas, listen. You know that this is the Presidency's decision and that the regulation actually envisages it. But it's appreciated by the Presidency. And I've heard you debate exactly on that very subject you're going to read. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u81	But to read the literality, so that the Members and the Members...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u82	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Presas. It became clear in the debate, I was attentive to the debate. [[Mrs. Presas Bergantinos pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Madam Presas, it was clear in the debate. Let's see if we vote. They're pending a transaction, I imagine... [[Pause.]] Let's start the votes. Close the doors, please. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u83	We begin the votes with the Group of Parliament of En Marea on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in order to transfer to the Government of the State the need to amend the General Law on Social Security in order to improve the situation of those affected by early retirement. There was an amendment in the voice of the People's Parliamentary Group, and we were awaiting a text. You'll tell me how it is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Vázquez Verao?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u84	He's been transferred to the lawyer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u85	Is this what they just gave me? [[Pause.]] The compromise proposal is to replace points 1 and 4 with the following: "The Galician Parliament considers it necessary to study the modification of the current regulation of the arrangements for early retirement access, so Parliament urges the Galician Union to address the Government of the State so that, within the framework of the Toledo Pact, with all representative agents and trade unions, the following measures should be studied and evaluated, in any case ensuring the viability of the pension system: 1. To make the necessary changes in the General Law of Social Security that for the purposes of accreditation of the aforementioned..." It continues with the proposal it was made. So this is the text. Do you agree? [[Assentment.]] We therefore vote for this transaction. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and 13 other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union in order to transfer to the Government of the State the need to amend the General Law on Social Security in order to improve the situation of those affected by early retirement. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u86	We have voted in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the establishment by the Greek Government of the means necessary to enable free access of citizenship to all the cathedrals they have received at some point in public economic nearing. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de la Concepción Burgo López and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the launch by the Government of Galicia of the means necessary to enable free access of citizenship to all the cathedrals they received at any time economic approaches of a public character. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u87	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Maria Luisa Pierres López and four other Members. I was pending a transaction. Can you read it, please?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u88	Yes, there's a transaction in point 1 with the People's Party, in which a term has been changed. I'd like to say, "Let them comply and axillize as far as possible the established deadlines..." etc. There is also a transaction with the add-on amendment BNG, which says: "Developing the necessary budgetary changes to avoid delaying the implementation of the state pact on the budgetary extension scenario, and approving a timetable for the compliance and evaluation of the pact which guarantees the implementation of the necessary legislative changes before September 2018, as well as the budgetary forecast for each of the measures envisaged." Even so, we accepted a point vote, grouping 1, 2, 3 and 4 on the one hand, and the 3 bis on the other.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u89	We therefore vote for this transaction, and we begin by voting for points. Firstly, we would vote on point 3a. We vote. Vote of point 3a of the proposed non-law G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and four other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the implementation of the measures reflected in the State Covenant against Gender Violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 38 The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u90	Let us now vote on the rest of the points of this non-law proposal. We vote. Vote of points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the proposed non-law G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and four other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the implementation of the measures reflected in the State Covenant against Gender Violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67. The voting is positive. As a result, these points of the compromised text of the non-law proposal are adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u91	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Paula Prado del Río and six other Members. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. At the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and six other Members, on the request of the Government of Galicia to the Central Government for the encouragement of the measures necessary for the celebration, on 6 December 2018, of the fortieth anniversary of the Spanish Constitution of 1978, as well as the position of the Galician Parliament in connection with the commemorative acts that are promoting and coordinating the General Courts for its celebration. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 51; votes in favour, 16. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u92	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Pontón Mondelo and five other Members. The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding the management that is being carried out in relation to the political situation in Catalonia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 6; votes against, 51; abstentions, 10. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u93	We voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas and five other Members. There's a transaction. If you do the favor, Mrs. Presas, you can read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u94	I don't know if to take advantage of and read anything else. [[Laughter]] "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to propose, from the point of view of university autonomy, to the Greek universities the modification of the current university master's curricula in teaching to incorporate a specific subject on the care and prevention of gender violence in order to strengthen the content that must be imparted at present in a cross-sectional manner, and to continue to promote the acquisition of competences by teachers and future teachers in order to address the transmission of values that promote equality and coexistence in classes, as well as conflict resolution." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u95	Thank you. We voted for this transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the development by the Galician Union, in accordance with article 14 of the Law 11/2007 and in collaboration with the public universities of Galicia, of the actions necessary to ensure the incorporation of a specific subject for training in prevention and attention to gender violence in the field of university master's degree in compulsory secondary education and Bachelor's degree, Vocational Training and Language Teaching. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u96	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Don Carmen Santos Queiruga and Don Luis Villares Naveira. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. De In Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and D. Luis Villares Naveira, on the creation by the Galician Union of an anti-corruption office where possible cases of corruption in the Italian public sector can be reported anonymously. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u97	Finally, we voted for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Maria Ángeles García Míguez and 14 other Members. There are amendments to the three groups. I don't know if there's a transaction. Is there a transaction in this matter? Have you reached an agreement? [[Pause.]] There's no deal. Then none of the amendments are accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles García Míguez and fourteen other Members, on the intensification by the Galician Union of collaboration with local bodies members of the Network of Councils against Gender Violence to achieve greater resource effectiveness and develop joint actions in the areas of awareness-raising and prevention, information, training and assistance to victims. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; abstentions, 29. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u98	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We continue with point 5, which is interpellation. Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Union of Galicia in relation to the situation of the health staff of Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u99	Mr. Torrado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u100	Thank you, President. Good morning. Before I started, I wanted, like my colleagues, to commit myself, individually and also as a member of the Socialist Party, to the State Covenant against Gender Violence and to promise to work to improve and enrich the same from the collective and also individually. [[Applause]] Going to the explicit content of the initiative, I also wanted to begin by thanking the People's Party and the adviser for the support they will give to this motion in the next plenary. I say it basically because, thanks to our motion, an OPE of health was called, which was approved by a Socialist Party initiative last March. And thanks to the fact that we brought this initiative to this plenary, right after you knew it, you finally summoned that OPE that we claimed. It is of the first time that we have stated that the parliamentary opposition, which does not have a majority and does not support the Government, calls on the OPE to convene a public summons. But it is also to be recognized, and I want to do it publicly, to the Counsellor who values the contributions of the groups and who in this case called upon the OPE, who almost can be said to have called it the Socialist Party. But we thank him. Suppose you take a gesture for your part to listen to the opposition and acknowledge your work, which I sincerely thank you for. In general, and yet, this initiative makes a lot of sense, because, even though OPE can be a little help, and it's going to be, there's a lot more to do. And we believe that there is a serious problem of staff in public health, not what exists and what is working, but what is missing and the quality of the work they have. It's basically a problem of quantity and quality. And in terms of quality, there's a very serious precarious problem. A few days after this initiative was registered and communicated to the whole day's agenda, a news came out — and the truth, I can promise you, Counselor, that I didn't decide the news from the media, particularly some of them — that it was really shuddering, not because it was unknown, but because maybe it's a way of spreading an idea that many groups -- particularly we -- have come defending and we've been exposing for a long time. There are health workers who claim to have 270 contracts in five years, two contracts on the same day, be notified at 8 in the morning to have to work at 8 in the morning, or have a four-hour contract and have to accept it even though they have sick children because otherwise they lose positions on a job list. Leonine working conditions, having to solve personal life in minutes, can't afford your time because you have to be available if they call you, which doesn't mean they're going to call you... a precarious situation that causes, first, dangerous working duality, that of people doing the same work with the same responsibility, the same titration and within the same service that they have a problem because they have notorious differences and very broad in the quality of their work. And secondly, because they have a stress problem, job burning, a problem that causes risks when working and working. The SATSE union reported, through some of its spokespersons, that 80% of the Spanish nursing — we consider that the percentage can be assimilated to Galicia — is stressed, and that 50% suffer from labor-burning problems. They are very high, very high degrees, and they greatly hinder the ability to work. There is a European Union ruling, which you know, which focuses on the fact that health — in addition to other areas of the administration, but especially health — is concatenating contracts for workers to occupy for a long time and eventually jobs that are structural. The first time we talked about this sentence here, we were told in committee that this didn't affect Sergas. In fact, there are judgments in Galicia that affect Sergas. And we've seen claiming that this is a problem that affects a lot of potential workers who are taking on jobs. That same news quoted workers who have been working for more than three years every day but who have never signed contracts for more than three months, and who for some time even signed them for one month. We're talking about a problem that is copying the worst of the liberal labour model, which is exploitation. There's the Health Council on the verge of being a labor operator of its workers, and this, in addition, about a service that needs minimum stability, which needs minimum working conditions. So we can't support the level of exploitation, and we demand a clear improvement in the quality of work. There's a problem of quantity too. Basically, the job we have is insufficient. There are some questions that contribute to proving it. You have some staff paintings, or you publish some staff paintings, which are fallible. I'm going to try to give some numbers, but basically what proves it are the waiting lists that we suffer. With more staff we'd have fewer waiting lists. We've mentioned some, but I think it's a good time to comment on some of those that you say don't exist. Quote requested on the 14th of this month—psychology for a serious problem—and quote given on December 19th, four months for a serious problem of people who need a psychology service. Dictionary service: date already given, by September 17, 2018, by September 17, 2018. And we're talking about dating for almost a year. You could tell me they're on time. But maybe it's also on time that in the same digestive service in another hospital -- in this case in Vigo, big hospital -- that's October 10, 2018. You could tell me they're isolated cases. But, curiously — and I'm sure you're already hearing — an appointment at the Valdeorras boat rehabilitation service — that's the hospital they want to take out services — by June 17, 2019. This seems like a race to see who's dating further. And you're actually favoring a career with many candidates, because the reality is that we're talking about appointments that have to wait a year, a year and a half, for services that can't wait. And so what we think is that it's necessary to solve it. It's true that you, with this call from the OPE, can solve a part. It's also worth remembering that you told OPE, first, that yes, as soon as you didn't, as soon as you doubled, as soon as you were conditioned, and blackmailed, the state budgets, as soon as you stopped conditioning, as soon as you were called, as soon as you weren't, as soon as you were reconditioned to the next year's budgets, as soon as it depended on something else. You're a 'go and don't go', neither go nor go, with the call of the OPE. You've made a little "Puigdemont" with the OPE of health, go and don't go. Maybe I was thinking about being a PCCAT candidate, which is why they do and don't. So have a little sensitivity with people who are dependent on the system, both those who are going to work and those who are users. Because you can't make these calls for "OPE interruptus", like you do. In any case, these problems lead to substitution problems. You laugh. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mr. Núñez Centeno laughed. Of course, you don't have that problem! But there are people who do, and users suffer. Just like you, it's kind of funny that the health system depends, to a large extent, on people who have a contract that they don't know if they're going to work tomorrow. And I don't want that to anyone, but, besides, much less health care. You're a health professional, and I'll always defend you to have, at the moment you return to your profession, if you so decide, a dignity in your work, and we'll defend it ourselves. But please think of the people who are in that situation. You have a problem with substitutions. Look, I'm from Vilagarcia and you know that there, in an urban nucleus that is Vilaxoán, which can refer to several thousand people, you have a consultation with a professional who is down there and does not replace it. And I tell you the truth, I don't know whether you know Vilaxoan or not, or you know those of Vilaxoan, who aren't people who like to take their services. I'm telling him because it's always right to keep him in mind. You have a phony staff. I'll make you a little bill. He's got about a painting with 35,000 professionals. But all the calculations that all the collectives make say that about 7,000 of them aren't, cover themselves with potential staff. And 7,000 of them are 1 out of every 5. If we take the 1,700 million personnel, 1 out of 5 make an account of 340 million euros. If we add to them the continence fund, which is 31, and if we add to them 16 million that you've changed from the budget line to the last quarter, we're talking about nearly 400, 387 million euros. It's EUR 387 million in potential staff. You're sponsoring precariousness with almost 400 million euros a year. Do you think that's efficient? We believe not; first, because it does not defend the quality of work and, second, because it does not defend the quality of the system. The only difference is if you really defend the quality of the system. In general, we had an amendment, proposed this Monday, to increase EUR 34 million to the departure for staff, to facilitate stability in the system. You voted against, they had no doubt. But, beyond they vote against our proposals or like them more or less, I ask them to honour them. Because we have a very good staff, but we're satuating our staff, it's making a huge effort. And we have a lot of staff that is going to other places because of the best working conditions, and we have a staff that can't, even if you want, work here. And that makes us lose population, lose quality in the system and make us a worse system. Remember that we are the third worst healthcare system in all of Spain valued by users, remember that says the health barometer. And what we're asking is this interpellation to give us its assessment of the fact that 400 million euros that sponsor the eventuality is efficient, if you think a system that loses professionals — and not as Mr. Feijóo said, that we earn professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u102	...because winning stable professionals would be illegal, because we can't cover, thanks to Mr. Montoro, for the replacement rate... If you think it's good to defend that we earn personal but personal money that you have to go to work at eight o'clock, but that you call it at eight o'clock, you won't find us on that trip. But if they really want to continue to approve our initiatives, as they have done with the OPE — even though they have to convene them because we call them — we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u104	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that he smiles a moment ago because it makes me funny when Mr. Torrado speaks of everything; that is, of the labor situation of the workers of Sergas, of Mr. Puigdemont, of "OPE interruptus"... Above all, he says something very important, and I thank, of course, that he is pleased with the OPE that you made Sergas take out and publish. But I have to remind you that the president has spoken a long time earlier, in February, on this subject. [[Applause]] But I want to thank you, this is an important day. Because before, a group said that we are leaving the economic recession — it was the first time — and now Mr. Torrado, of the Socialist Group, says that we are doing very well in health. Thank you very much. When I always repeat that mantra that is the third most valued service, I also take out newspaper releases, which are not written by us, which, of course, say that 2 out of 3 Greeks consider our public health to work well or quite well. Or they say, when you have to choose people between public and private, in Galicia you want to go to primary care at 83% of people, and in Spain you're at 69%. Something must be doing well in primary care! And the external consultations in the hospital in Galicia want to go to 67.7% and, in the rest of Spain, 57%. In hospitalisation, 84% want to be admitted to a public hospital; and, in Spain, 68%. In emergencies, they want to go to the public emergency at 80%; and, in Spain, at 66%. Therefore, the Greeks think they're clear that public health works very well. As far as human resources are concerned, as I say, you have mixed up everything, you have spoken of everything or almost everything. He even spoke, as always, of the four anecdotes of millions of consultations. Talk about one here and another over there. Well, let's talk about human resources, which I think was what he asked us to do first. Already in my appearance I wanted to explain the budget project for 2018 -- you've also been there -- and I said we had 1,702 million euros, of which 1,645, 96.6%, correspond to Sergas. Thus, 43.8% of the Council's budget is for our professionals, the biggest chapter of our budgets. In our strategy he has always been present and the objective of progressing in the stability of our professionals will be present. Point 1, which is important to us in human resources: stability. Last April, we took an important step with the signing of the Employment Stability Plan and providing for the Sergas 2017-2018 staff, in which we made our commitment to reduce timeliness in the Galician Health Service, and that will allow us to reduce to 5% the percentage that represents the potential staff. The Ministry's national goal is 8%. We're raising 5%. Point 2: increase in staff. You said you couldn't create squares and so on. Sergas, in this 2018 budget, will create 365 new squares, of which we calculate that more than 100 will be for doctors. We'll move even closer to that goal, which, as I said earlier, is to reduce interinity to 5%. Point 3: OPE — not "OPE interrupts" but "OPE." We are ready to fulfill our commitment and double the total supply of 2016 at the 2017 OPE. And we have already announced that the 2017 OPE will be 1,617 squares — as I say, announced many months ago by the President of the Union. By the way, fulfilling the total GNP adopted at the plenary session on 21 March. Even so, in Horizon 2017-2020, through new offers, around 5,000 people will be able to access a stable square. This agreement was a very important agreement for us because, along with us, Commissions, UXT and CSIF, and then joined trade unions like Satse, and CESM-Omega. Point 4: Negotiations. At different sectoral tables, workers' representatives were dealt with on the agreements and agreements of improved remuneration, which were suspended in the budget laws to the thread of the economic crisis. There are rights that have been recovered in this last legislation, such as the return of the extra pay of December 2012, the rise of 1% of wages in 2016, the return of the additional specific supplement of January and February 2013, and the recovery of days of free provision plus additional vacation days. Already in the Budget Act of 2017 it was considered to recover the additional specific supplements of the extra June and December payments, as well as an increase of 1% more in payrolls. Even so, other measures to improve working conditions have been adopted. We have every year to promote an OPE, a stability plan to reduce temporality rates, a new contract, the open and permanent transfer contest, and other varied. In the Budget Bill for 2018, and in accordance with the future State Budget Act, it contains a 2% salary increase to the salaries of all public employees. As you say, and you know very well, the budget must be approved at the national level. Let's hope that the Socialist Party, and with that sense of responsibility that you and your group have, can do it. In the draft law of measures, and to extend the protection of maternity, contains an extension of the duration of maternity and paternity permits, and in the adoption of the average of continuous care, medical guards, evenings and holidays, in situations of maternity, paternity and risk during pregnancy and lactation. Even so, it was agreed with the trade unions at the sectoral table to lay the foundations of the ordinary professional career system for all collectives of staff, with a commitment to recognition of new degrees in 2018. As far as concerts are concerned, as far as the amount devoted to private health is concerned, I must once again say that it is important — I believe that your group also defends it — a complementary private sector to the public sector which adds value to the health system as a whole. Law 8/2008, of 10 July, on health care in Galicia — of course, with an adviser belonging to the Socialist Party — shows that it puts emphasis on the public character of the system, and establishes, in addition, the so-called health system in Galicia, where the meeting and complementarity of the public system and the private sector of health care takes place; the private sector in which private establishments, establishments and services of private ownership such as hospitals, clinics, pharmacy, health transport, laboratories and other private providers are included. The 2018 concert budget is EUR 205.5 million, an increase of 1% over 2017; a decrease that is much lower than in 2009 — which was the last you could manage, which was 6.8 % lower —. Although the main sections of concerted activity correspond to hospitals, in this budget, as I said, there are other things that are included, such as special haemodialysis programs, health transport and diagnostic and treatment centres. According to the Galician Private Hospital Association, the concerted activity in Galicia amounts to EUR 76.6 per inhabitant, compared to Spain's average 125.4. Your Honor, we have never lost our readiness to dialogue, and we are always open to negotiations that allow us, within consensus and realism, to achieve the measures that lead to the improvement of health professionals' conditions. That's how we're doing it, and so we're going to keep doing it. Of course, we believe that important steps are being taken in this direction. And we believe that we must have the support of the parliamentary groups to follow this path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u105	Thank you very much, Counselor. On the replica round, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u106	Thank you, President. Well, it's funny that I'm the one who talks about things they didn't touch. I brought an interrogation today and I talked about staff. You spoke of the Law of 2008. How I like it to celebrate the 2008 Law, I don't know why you want to change it for the sixth time. But, well, Law of 2008, thank you for recognizing him! Today we are grateful. I admit to you that you approve the OPE, which we force you to do, and you recognize the 2008 Health Counsellor. The truth is we have a courteous day. One realizes that everything we're celebrating is thanks to the Socialist Party. But, in any case, it's also good for your recognition to know how to understand the things that are right. If you leave us a little longer, we'll leave you the Nickeled Councillory. Anyway... You told me I didn't even have the chance to manage the 2009 budgets. Man! I know that I consider myself a mature person, but I in 2009 was not yet to manage any budget; almost, almost, or mine. Because, you'll see, you're still talking about 2009 and that government. [[Laughter]] It's almost ten years from now! I love it, especially because the comparison leaves you a little bit wrong. But far from the parliamentary debate, I think it is good to talk about something new. Yes, I speak quite of the OPE because not every day an OPE is approved from the opposition. I say this because you yourself recalled the compliance of the GNP with the March 21 debate. And I could extend it a little longer and say that the PNL was brought here by the Socialist Party. By the way, President Feijóo said what OPE announced, and then said it depended on budgets. And then you came here to say that it depended on our support for the budgets — something you continued in this debate. And I, in that debate, asked him: one, it's not up to state budgets; two, we're not going to approve budgets; three, you're going to have to call OPE. I told him then, at that moment. Three o'clock. Sometimes you have to recognize me, Counselor, that we don't do everything so bad, sometimes we don't do everything so bad. Three o'clock! Look, the most important decision of the Council this year, which is to convene the OPE — from our point of view — came out of this Parliament and thanks to our initiative. Thanks for bringing her here, you call her. Because I know it's planetary coincidences, but actually, Counselor, it's very coincidental. Finally, and by coming back specifically to the question of human resources, you quote me several things. Tell me a newspaper news, which is good, but I'm going to the source. On that same news — which I know perfectly well — they cite the source of the health barometer, the CIS. If you don't trust the CIS, all right; but I do. Even because I do believe that the CIS... well, always something influenced, can be; but I believe a lot in CIS independence. And the CIS — which is an official source that makes that inquiry out of that news — says we're the third most valued community in their healthcare system by users. That's what it says, with 6.35 on average, the third worst. What do you celebrate, Counselor? Do you celebrate that citizens prefer public health to private? It's just that it should go for you. To celebrate is to celebrate the crumbs, to celebrate the little one. You tell me you celebrate that citizens are happy with their health. That's just to celebrate the crumbs, because Spanish health, and Greek health by extension, is very good. By the way, mainly thanks to a health law, April 25, 1986. You voted against, I remind you. It is good to remember, because it was driven by a socialist minister, of which we have a great memory. And you will know that yesterday's 17th anniversary was celebrated that some businessmen had shot him in the back — you know — And we, who remember Ernest Lluch a lot, know that it was the driving force of that law, which you voted against, by the way. But what do you celebrate? Do you celebrate investing EUR 400 million in staff eventualities? Does it not consider the possibility that part of the budget can be used not only to stabilize, but also to expand public calls? Do we not believe that staff, when stable, work better, are more profitable, are more effective and, above all, contribute to better system sustainability and better health policy? Isn't that true? We defend that yes. So what we believe is that we need to get out of these 400 million annuals that are dedicated to the eventuality -- recognized by you -- and that, therefore, we can go to greater stability, much bigger than what we've seen in recent times. Because you think you're recovering rights that you've blocked?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u108	They are — I'm finished, president, thank you — recovering rights through trade union agreements, rights that you blocked in 2010! Are we celebrating that rights on vacation days are recovered? Is that what we're celebrating? We believe that celebrating these things indicates that ambition is low. And we know that this is a little ambitious government, but it should be a government that had thought a little more about efficiency. And, therefore, we bring this motion, which, in view of the success of our motions on staff, we trust — and I will advance thanks — that they will support it, because, in fact, they have been so vehemently supported by the previous motions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u109	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u110	...I thank you in advance for this support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. You have the word, for the replica shift, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u112	The truth, Mr. Torrado, is to crack the debate doesn't crack it. I think the next time you should question yourself, and so you could answer from the facts you do. Because it is true that this is the first time since the opposition, a member of the second opposition group has approved something so important. [[Applause]] I welcome the fact that on 15 November we constituted the health subcommittee of the Stabilisation Plan for the Union, which signed CESM-OMEGA, Workers' Commissions, CSIF, SATSE and UXT, for example. And yesterday, on 21st, the sectoral table at which we approved, together with the trade unions previously appointed — CESM-Omega, Workers' Commissions, CSIF, Satse and UXT — was held at OP 2017. It is 1,616 squares, but includes 158 family doctors' squares, 726 nursing facilities, 366 nursing assistants, 7 clinical documentation and 359 management and services. That's what we celebrate. In total, the public job supply, the 2017 OP, is rising — as I said before — to 1,617, of which 820 are called to fill the retirement vacancies that will occur and 796 are to stabilize temporary employment. These oppositions will be convened next year, and in this call we will add 541 squares that are pending from the 2016 OP. This is the largest public job offer in the last five years, and doubles the previous call. At OPE 2017 we duplicate the family doctors' squares and introduce the specialty of family and community nursing, with 10 squares, and pediatric nursing, with 4 squares. But mental health is maintained, with 20 squares, and nursing at work, with 2 squares. Therefore, the category with the highest offer is that of nursing, with the 726 mentioned squares, followed by technicians in nursing auxiliary care, for which we convene 366 posts. In 359 management and services are included 222 cells, 124 of the auxiliary group of the administrative function, 8 technical-administrative management, 2 of the technical group of the administrative function and 3 technical engineering. The goal of Sergas is to stabilize the staff framework to reach, as we said before, 5% of the eventuality, the lowest in the health system at national level and, of course, far below what the Ministry of Business aims at national level. As for waiting lists, the latest data from the waiting lists, referred to in the first half of the year, reflect that the Galician Health Service conducted a total of 109,840 interventions, which means 436 more than in the first half of 2016. Of the more than 100,000 interventions, 92,544 were programmed and 17,296 urgencys, noting that outpatient operations — a total of 58,889 — exceed those carried out with income, which were 50,000. Sergas continues to fulfill his commitment to address the most serious pathologies under thirty days and those under sixty days. Thus, the average surgical waiting time for patients in priority 1 is, on average, about fifteen days. The number of hospital consultations conducted in the first half was 2,719,000, which means 106,113 more than in the same period of the previous year. In addition, Sergas continues to work on fast track maintenance, which is making it possible to fulfill the commitment to care for the patient with suspicion of severe pathology in an average time of waiting less than 15 days. A total of 8,749 people benefited from this procedure, which means 2,433 more than in the first half of 2016. Law 12/2013 — as you know — closed a few days ago with the Decree of Maximum Times, which will give certification to each of the patients, on an individual level, of the maximum waiting times, which will affect 108 pathologies, 26 diagnostic tests, 7 rapid pathways, and from 14,000 to 20,000 will benefit each year. It is, of course, very important for us to do the work that is done with health workers, because, thanks to them, it has remained during the difficult years of the economic situation — which, of course, left the Socialist Party in Spain and Galicia the Bipartite — and we, logically, had to make difficult decisions. Right now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u114	...we are, let's say, returning that kind of profit, both economic and other, and, as I say, we are very happy and we celebrate the most numerous offer of the last five years and doubling the important one since 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u115	Thank you very much, Counselor. Interpellation by Mr Antón Sánchez García and four other Members of the G.P. in Marea, on the conservation and employment sector in
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u116	Mr. Lake Peñas has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u117	Good morning. Counselor, I shall begin with a statement of intent. This interpeleration is looking for a solution. In that sense, even if it doesn't fit the interpellation, we're not looking for a confrontation with the Government, we're looking for a solution; we're looking for a solution that tries to stop the Calvo Group's decision to close its factory in Esteiro, because that intention, already very advanced, is a grave threat to the employment and economy of a whole region. It's not just a job problem, it's the economy of a county. And I don't know if you'll answer me with that, but it's not a transfer of staff; it's also, before that, it's a closure of a company, with serious consequences on the people who work in the fixed conservation template in Esteiro, but also on the indirect employment it generates in its environment and in its temporary employment. I'll give you the figures. In Calvo, in Esteiro, 100 people work, 95% work, women, as permanent indefinite template. But there are another 120 people who work temporarily. You know that the conservation industry has stations, it has seasonality. But, in addition, around a factory, indirect jobs are developed, from different services, from cleaning to monitoring, passing through transport. If we add them all, they're almost 300 jobs threatened, almost all of them occupied by women, in a region that has very little industry and therefore very few employment opportunities. He said it the other day and there was some confusion: Calvo, in Esteiro, is the main factory in the area. I know there are other activities, fishing, tourism or seafood, where there are more people, but as a factory, as an industrial plant, it's the largest between Serra de Outes and Carnota. And so we're talking about something that's been generating jobs for thirty years, wealth, value in a county, and there's no reason for that company to shut down. I brought the result account page from the Calvo Group. Last year it billed 575 million euros — 575 million euros! — last year it won, had a cash-flow of 51 million euros and had a result before taxes of 39 million euros, results that increased before taxes 95% on the results of the year 2015. We have a large business group that doesn't have invoicing problems, that doesn't have balance sheets, that doesn't have funding problems, that doesn't have profitability problems. And that large industrial group makes the decision to close a plant that gives direct or indirect employment to 300 people in an industrial underdeveloped area of our country. That's unacceptable. Look, the cannery in Esteiro had a negative cash flow in 2016 of 630,000 euros; that was what lost the company, 630,000 euros. According to the report made by Deloitte on behalf of the company, the investment needed to place the company in good condition — because it has been uninvestable for some time — is EUR 1,075.170; one million — the business group that had this cash flow of EUR 51 million — is EUR 1.075.170. Therefore, there is no reason to justify the closure of that company. There's no business problem, the company is not indebted, it has huge benefits, there's no reason. What's the company's decision? If we close Calvo in Estero, we're going to earn 3, 4, 5 or 6 million more. The cash flow for the Calvo family and for the Bolton Group, instead of sharing dividends, because we share more. Can that strategy share it with the Galician Union? I don't think so. Today President Feijóo was asked what was the industrial policy of the Marea. I'm going to say it with just one sentence: stop you from closing Sterilizer Conservatories. When the Industry Councillor—which, perhaps, was what he was supposed to be talking about here—is up here and talking about a retail company that, according to him, we want to close, we see that all these companies are still open, all of them!, and I don't know they're at any risk of closing. But this is a particular company that, if the board does nothing, will close, and it will be their responsibility. This, in addition to a labour cost, a social cost, a huge economic cost on this territory, will have, Madam Counsellor — do so, at least — a huge political cost for your party in the area, because there is a general consensus that You Can't Shut Up, but also when you come to this gallery. Because, let's see, if the ones that close companies are us, but, in reality, they're all still open and the one that closes is this, and, secondly, if the Board comes up here and boasts — and President Feijóo — that it's capable of influencing Pemex, Citroën, about Indidex, about how the Board's ability to influence economic and banking entry is enormous and that, thanks to Junta, to exports... and am I not able to talk to a Carballo family and reach an agreement? Are we able to influence Pemex and we can't talk to a Carballo family and reach an agreement with them — an rooted family, by the way, in your country? Of course, the third element: you're telling us about the rural economy and about taking care of undeveloped areas, and you're talking about closing down the main industrial company in a territory. We're talking about closing down the industrial company of a territory, with the inaction of the Galician Union. So, that role that will promote employment, activities, businesses, the transformation of primary products, developing industrial employment, why doesn't it apply here now? Why are you talking to me about whether they're going to get you ahead of another company? If the easiest thing is to get this company to continue; the cheapest, the easiest. They've been making canning production for thirty years. Of course, I had to be the advisor; I'll say again: employment policy. We'll be told again that we have to make employment policies, that we have to train people, that we have to have training courses, that we're going to have cooperativeism courses... here are 300 people working, women, most of them. What kind of economic logic does it come to destroy that job for then, when they're unemployed, to form them? But why don't we directly solve the problem, which is that they don't lose their jobs? What more efficient employment policy might be that 300 jobs are not destroyed, 300 people are unemployed more and start the cycle of subsidising companies to hire...? It doesn't make any sense. I'm done with two ideas. The first is that this is a reflection of what Luis Villares was asking today in the question. This decision by Calvo is the model of: we close a company, lose the job 300 people, and that's why the company earns 5 million euros more. That's the model we report. There's GDP, but there's no employment; there's wealth, but it's not distributed; they earn businesses and lose workers. That's the model, an unfair model. I'm going to say it again: the Calvo Conservative Group is a great industrial group of what a country has to feel proud, without any doubt. But why does Junta, who has different criteria from the results account and the dividends of a business group, not act on this issue and says: in Calvo, with 50 million euros of annual benefit — that's not bad — 300 jobs, people who have been working for you thirty years, women from an area where they have no job opportunities, because we're going to nude this element? I'm done with a call. In the neighborhood there is a broad consensus, advisor; of the trade unions, of course, of the municipalities, also of people of their party; a consensus to defend the company, the employment; therefore, the conservation industry, the economy of that territory, and that is to maintain the Conservatories Esteiro. On that huge front of people who want the company to continue, only a few are missing: you, the Galician Union. And what I'm doing here, more than talking about, is to make a call to them: please put people on the side of the job next to the industry, and let this area have a little more hopeful future than the company's closure plans materialize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Lago Peñas, as you will well understand, for the Board of Galicia the fact that closing a company is never a good news and therefore every time we have a record, communication or knowledge that a company is going through difficulties or making the decision to close, let's put ourselves to work from minute one. In this case, in October, when we knew the possibility of closing the plant of Esteiro, we got to work. What happens is that you have to understand that the alleged loss of employment cannot be analyzed while the conditions between the company and the committee are still being negotiated. It must be remembered that the activity will remain in Galicia, will remain in Carballo, around 70 kilometers from Esteiro and, in that place, the company plans to invest 25 million euros to update its plant and make the Calvo business group have the best factory in all of Europe, installed here in Galicia. On the other hand, I think it is also worth recalling here the majority decision of about 100 people working in Esteiro, which last November 3 manifested themselves in favour of negotiating the transfer. You have to take it into account, let's say, when you have to fight the conditions offered by the company and the demands of the workers themselves; that is to say, to convert all those who have a job of discontinuing, to take charge of the transfer to the plant in Carballo and even the possibility of contemplating the time spent in the transfer as working time. I believe that nothing has changed since November 8th, in which I told you this very; yes, that, by taking advantage of this opportunity that it gives me, I would like to make explicit again the commitment of the Galician Board to support any viable initiative that can equip the Esteiro plant for activity. Again, Junta will be next to any viable initiative that involves a business exit to the plant, come from the hand of a new company or the union of the workers who are there today, in Esteiro. We will be accompanying this possible option, if appropriate, by providing support for that initiative, if necessary through existing services and assistance and funding programmes. And in addition to this, we will do so without fail to verify the fulfilment of the conditions of transfer, which is our commitment, and in it we will be. We will provide this support knowing that it preserves it is a strategic sector of what you speak well and what we fully agree with. We know that, and we also know that employment in this sector is key to Galicia, and that is where we support it and we bet on it. So much so that we have to point out that this new aspect, work, is one of the key elements in the new Strategic Plan of the Welsh Conservative Industry 2020 and that it aims to ensure continuity and/or growth, stability and quality of employment in the sector. But to analyze this element, I think it's necessary to first review what employment data in the conservation is and what their evolution is, because, seeing how we are and how we are progressing, we can determine what the reason and the basis of this consideration is. According to the data handled by Anfaco-Cecopesca, taking as source the membership files and accounts for the contribution to Social Security, in 2011 the number of jobs generated by the conservative sector in Galicia rose to 11,950. Although this figure has experienced a slight decline in the years 2011 to 2014, when it is below 11,000 workers, the trend in the following years — 2015 and 2016 — is job creation. In 2015, 11.035 jobs were reached and 11,600 workers increased by 2016, which means an annual increase of 3.2 and 4.8 respectively. Another positive aspect of the employment structure in this sector has to do with its quality and stability, because the job declared over 70% is indefinite employment, which I believe must be valued. Another possible indicator of significant change in the structure of employment has to do with the distribution between female and male employment, since today, with data declared in the commercial register, female employment is 70%. Finally, as far as this sector's data is concerned, for 2014-2016, according to the data provided by Issga, the accident rate is around 7%, 8%, and 99% of accidents are mild in nature, and we want it to be less. As a matter of fact, it should be noted that early 2017 the new text of the collective agreement governing the labour relations of companies dedicated to the handling, conservation, processing or preparation of semi-transformed fish and seafood products, these and other components, for the years 2016 to 2020, was published in the Official Gazette of the State. We understand that the said agreement contributes to giving stability to the sector and to increasing its competitiveness; and, in addition, the regulation of social aspects related to equal opportunities and non-discrimination were also taken into account, thus giving continuity to principles closely linked to corporate social responsibility. With this situation and tendency, we have drawn up the employment keys, which form one of the cornerstones of the Strategic Plan and which lead to eight avenues of work which will involve the support of several departments of the Union and budgetary support specifically linked to the European Social Fund. These lines would be: the definition of a sectoral training plan; the design of internal mobility plans, identifying training needs and job-recycling opportunities, especially linked to occupational versatility and the collective of older workers; the facilitation of plant training, in order to provide employment opportunities for trained staff and to implement policies of encouragement and motivation for training; the provision of incentives to recruit and stabilize staff, especially young people and people at risk of exclusion; the promotion of the generation of recruitment grants from the beneficiaries of training actions, so that the connection between companies and offers is complete; the generation of attractive opportunities for retention of talent and its stabilization, especially in new people with high qualifications; the definition of a specific professional certificate for the sector and taking into account the experience of workers; and the promotion of women's access to vocational training titrations traditionally linked to male sex, such as mechanics, electricity, electronics or maintenance of machines. I believe that with these eight lines we intend to refer to this step of more employment with a qualitative variable, improving the conditions of jobs and making this sector a referent in this field as well, as in others, as in exports. So, I end, and I do it by repeating the statement: we analyze the situation of the Calvo plant in Esteiro, we will be supporting a viable project for the plant, if it has, and we are in favour of employment in the Galician conservation industry. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u120	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Lake Peñas has the floor on the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u121	Counsellor, I appeal with sadness; a shared sadness, by the eyes, by the look of the hundred people who work directly in that company and the people who are following us — the company committee — by streaming, because Parliament's repressive policy prevents them from sitting in that rostrum. Let me tell you too, because the other day we had a debate about it, that I have here the letter of request for an interview with the Industry Adviser — that is, with the Galician Council — on October 10. The Galician board did not sit with the company committee; I do not say with the fishing councilor, I say that the Galician board, with a letter I have there — I say step by step — did not meet with the company committee. Counselor, after his intervention, I understand less. You say -- and I share -- the conservation goes well, it's generating jobs, there's more activity, companies make more money, or not? So why do you have to close this company? Counsellor, don't you realize the illogical idea of your planning to say let us shut down Calvo-Estere, that this is going to happen, that it loses value a factory in operation, and then, when it's closed and the people laid off, in unemployment, with the Fire, we'll see if there's an initiative and then Junta puts money in order to bring that company forward? Don't you realize that doesn't make any sense, that doesn't make any sense? Counselor, you didn't say so — I understand, but you didn't say so — but what's the reason I have to close this company? Why do you have to close Calvo Estero?, do you have an environmental problem?, are you in an illegal place?, is that an economic ruin? What's the problem with closing this company? This company just closes because the Calvo Group is going to make the biggest factory in Carballo and close this one. The Galician Union can't, thinking about a region, territory, 300 jobs in the largest industrial company in that area, do something? You really don't get your conscience turned around, being a government of this country, being a government of this territory, assuming that nothing happens, that we can't do anything, that this is so and that's it? We don't use false arguments. There was a vote in the company, in which it was decided by 49 to 44 votes, to negotiate working conditions, but I'm going to tell you two questions: first, the management of the company imposed that it had been held up, against the opinion of the unions, who wanted a vote in the ballot with the company's managers, looking to see that they were voting on each other. Counsellor, there are photos of people voting like this. Because who's going to happen to the people of Serra de Outes, de Muros, do you want me to shut your company down and go? [[Mr. Lake Peñas lifts a hand.]] Do you really think there's someone in the factory who wants to go to work in Carballo? It's 70 kilometers, but it's an hour and a half of a journey, because we know what those roads are like. We don't hide the matter. The question is: Does the Galician Union have the capacity or not to act on the industrial and business fabric of our country? Do you have it or don't you have it? She's in Indidex, she's in Citroën, she's in Pemex, and she's not in Calvo? Do you have it or don't you have it? And if you have it, if you really are able to influence the economic and business dynamics of our country, as the president boasts every day, why don't you use it in the case of the Calvo Group? Those are the questions. The first question is, why do you have to close this company? The second is whether the Galician Union has or does not have the capacity to act on the industrial and productive entrenchment of that country, especially with grants, because this company receives important grants. There's the sheet between 2015 and 2016, three and a half million euros, and the audited accounts. Anyway, I'll give it to you, too. And if it really keeps it going well, if Junta does it superbly, it has the ability to influence the productive environment and this company doesn't have any problems, why doesn't it do anything? That's the question. When you answer me, Counselor, don't do it to me, please do it to the company committee, which will be looking at you with great concern, thinking about your future and about your families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Lago, the truth is that sometimes it's not able to understand what you're looking for, when it's said that what you're trying to find is solutions. The other day you somehow came to imply that we had given the company Calvo 25 million euros of help, linked to the job, when I already told him that it was a lie. That's a lie. The Calvo company didn't have 25 million euros of help, the Calvo company said it was going to invest 25 million euros, but it wasn't the help of the Galician board. Look, since the Sea Council, you can't help that company because it's a big company and it's excluded from the aid of the European Maritime Fisheries Fund. From the Economic and Industrial Council, the help given is linked to innovation and development projects, and at the moment they haven't given you any help. That doesn't mean he won't be given the next call. But in this last call there was not approved for the project. Calvo presented an investment-gathering project, with an investment in the 21.4 million project, and they asked for a 5,4 aid, without linkage to the contract, and no help was given. These are competitive projects. He didn't get the results they were looking for, and he didn't, in fact, help. Look, it's bad news for me, of course, yes, I told you 15 days ago and I told you again today when I intervened. Every time you close an industry, whatever it is, and wherever it is, for me it's a pain, it's a sadness. But I must also acknowledge that Article 38 of the Constitution says what it says, and that if a business group decides for itself to close or open a factory and adjusts to the terms of legality, the Government cannot intervene in the decisions of that business group. You misunderstand the words of both the President of the Union and the Economic and Industrial Counsellor, or my own, when we say that we do it is to look for the possibilities so that anyone who wants to invest in Galicia can do it, to give people easy to invest in our territory, so that there is a possibility of economic progress in our territory. That's quite different from telling you that, as we help you to invest in Galicia, we're able to condition the decision of a business group to invest or not invest. No, it's to give you the tools so that if you want to invest, you can do it. Now, in the decision of a business group, I will never feel able to go beyond what he says and advocates Article 38 of the Constitution. And we make available — of course — measures to ensure that all those who want to generate wealth can do so. And we bet on the small company? Well, look, if the entire European Maritime and Fisheries Fund is intended solely for the creation of businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, we can never subsidise intermediaries or large industrial groups. And we have different lines at our disposal, both from the transformation industry's lines and all the gal projects. From the Economic and Industrial Council, they give them all the facilities so that they can develop a business project through cooperativeism, with training, with assistance, with guidance. That's where we'll always be. And as far as you're concerned that the company committee has not been dealt with, I can tell you that on October 10 there was a telephone call and if you talked to the gentleman -- let me tell you -- Víctor Ledo, head of the Labour Commission Industry Federation at Galicia level. He called on the phone on October 10th. We also had a telephone contact with the chairman of the UXT Business Committee, Mr. Diego Caamaño, who reported that he resumed his dialogue and negotiations with the company, and that he had therefore agreed to leave a margin to act before he intervened in Galicia. We've made ourselves available to intervene, if necessary, and what we're told is that tomorrow Thursday they have a new meeting between the company committee and the company itself. I think all these questions that I'm confirming to you have been transferred both to Mr. Ledo and to Mr. Secretary General of UXT in Galicia, and they agreed that the proposal should be this. So I don't know if the vote went up or not. I suppose the important thing is that there's a good negotiation between the workers and the company to keep those people who have it out of work today. I hope a good deal is reached between the company and the company committee, between the company committee and all the workers, and I also say that we are open to the possibility that the Esteiro plant can be reused for any other business project. What the company's representatives are transferring to us is that they had to do investment works to match the technological modernities that exist today, and that's what they're going to do at Carballo's plant. I hope that the Calvo company will continue to have much success, and giving the possibility of generating much more wealth in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u124	Thank you very much, Counselor. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u125	We now report a change in the agenda. You know that Interpellation 5.3 and questions from 7.1 to 7.4, which will be answered by the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice, are finally being debated. Let us now proceed to the debate on question 7.5. Question by Maria Julia Rodríguez Barreira and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the drafting of the project and environmental assessment of the extension of access to the dry port of Monforte to N-120
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u126	To put the question, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Counsellor, we are all clear at this point what is the importance of the logistics platform of the dry port, not only for Monforte, but also for the territory of the Lemos lands and all the south of Lugo. This was and it is an ambitious project, which arose in 2001, with the vocation of returning to the city of Monforte the economic impulse which, because of its railway protagonistship, had been elsewhere and which had been losing since the 1980s. A large project that was truncated by a series of circumstances, changes in government, even at the local and autonomous level, which showed a compromise failure, a slowdown and even a abandonment of that project, so that the monfortins saw how for years the dry port remained in the local imaginary, but without any progress that would enable them to rely on its materialization. It was precisely the Government of President Feijóo who in full crisis was betting on this infrastructure, and in the first months of 2011 announced the bidding of the dry port urbanization works, thus confirming the commitment to this project. Since then, the Autonomous Government has not ceased to carry out actions aimed at converting this logistics platform into reality; a great investment effort to convert the dry port into a wealth and employment generation pole in the south of Lugo province, first with its urbanization, after providing it with access to the LU-933 road, but even beyond, the efforts of the Galician Union for favoring the deployment of companies have even brought solution to a serious problem that prevented the deployment of companies, namely the impossibility of connecting dry port sanitation with the municipal sanitation network due to its poor state of conservation because of its deterioration. A problem of municipal competition to which your advisors responded, Counsellor, first by drawing up the clean-up project proper to the dry port, which would provide the necessary and essential sanitation, and even financing half the cost of the execution of that debugger. As you can see, the avatars of the dry port have been many, and now, as a result of the commitment of this government, we have finally made urbanization, we have sanitation, we have access to the LU-933 road, but we need to provide you with proper communication with a national road. The national 120 is approximately 1 km from the LU-933 road, at the point of connection to access to the dry port. It is easy to understand the need to connect this infrastructure, which is called to have an important role — as in the railway — in the transport of goods, but also to be the largest industrial polygon in southern Lugo. So communication with this national road...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u129	...it's fundamental to favor the exit of goods, not only to other Greek localities, but even to the Meseta. For all this, we asked him: what are the forecasts regarding the drafting of the project and the environmental assessment of the extension of access from the dry port to the national 120? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u130	Thank you very much, Mrs Barreira. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u131	Thank you. Thank you very much, Your Honor. The German Government has been holding a strong stake in territorial vertebration and also in Galicia, a work that is part of the concentration of efforts, investments, especially to enhance the dry port of Monforte; strategic projects that we have seen boosting competitiveness and also the economic dynamisation of Monforte de Lemos, and within this objective is what responds to the set-up of the dry port of Monforte, which today is the largest business park in the southern province of Lugo. It is a logistics platform on which we have already invested 20 million euros, 20 million euros at times of great economic difficulty; 13 million euros, in particular, for the acquisition of the soil and also for urbanization — an investment in the full economic crisis — which allows this business park to be ready today and for the companies that want to settle in it. Far from conforming to the ground-based position, we are stimulating the company's interest in going through the dry port of Monforte, and, as I said, concentrating efforts, mainly now, on reducing the price of the soil, and giving businesses easy to decant through that logistics platform; corporate soil bonuses that we launched in 2015 — 50% bonuses, in particular, in the dry port of Monforte. Today the average selling price is placed in Monforte below 29 euros/ square meter. And we also put in place the surface right, which, as you know, is a symbolic lease, with the right to purchase, which allows today companies that decant through the dry port of Monforte to have 38 cents/square meter/year on their own. At the Galician Summit we have always been aware that logistics platforms need to have appropriate communications and the objective of ensuring connectivity to the dry port; from the very first moment we have been connecting to the LU-933 and also to the national 120. But in times of economic difficulties we decided to divide it into two phases: the first phase, the LU-933, in service since 2015, and with 5.3 million euros for this action, and we are now also working to connect with the national 120. That's why we decided to draft a new project of design and environmental impact, coordinating these works with the development of national 120, and that's why in June last year we bid this project, 207,000 euros. The project was signed in December last year, with a deadline of 18 months. So we're moving forward to that connection to the national 120. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u132	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Counsellor, for we can only appreciate all the actions that have been taking place since the Government of Greece to promote the deployment of companies in the dry port, and we especially value the drafting of this new project, because we are aware of the technical and economic difficulties that represented the project, which were already known for their connection to the national 120, precisely by the conversion or projected conversion of this road by highway. And this is very important, because, probably, if it hadn't been like that, as you said and referred to the economic difficulties that this project represented, because we wouldn't be talking now about the drafting of the project or the deadlines for the execution of the works. So this job of editing a new project we've celebrated it and very positively appreciated it. And this is not a minor thing, because, as you say, the dry port is not only the largest business park in southern Lugo, but it is a logistics platform that counts with huge possibilities for the future in which it reaches, as I said before, the railway transport of commodities, for its location and conditions as well, for having a terminal load for trains up to 750 meters; conditions that believe its potential to become a pole of generation of wealth and employment in the south of Lugo. It is, therefore, Counsellor, an investor effort what the Galician Union is doing is fundamental to the future of our region. So by highlighting the work being done to provide the dry port with the necessary elements so that we can see it later become that business reality and the economic engine we all hope it to be, that is what I would like to do, since we are talking about a new project, which has sunk into the forecasts and deadlines that they are fighting in their advice on processing, about when they have predicted that it will be subject to public information, or to environmental assessment, or about, if possible, what their forecasts are for the procurement of the works of this infrastructure. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u134	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. You have the floor, for the Government's reply, the Infrastructure and Living Counsellor, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u135	Thank you, President. Mrs. Rodríguez, indeed, the new project of tracing is constructive; it has the main objective of strengthening the competitiveness of the dry port of Monforte, of giving greater comfort and security to the users of this industrial infrastructure, and the project responds to a configuration coordinated with the Ministry of Development, which simplifies and makes this connection between the autonomous road LU-933 and the national 120. The truth is that this solution that we have adopted is to replace a link with the national 120 with a glorieta at the level, and therefore compatible and integrated with the future A-76 highway; this simplifies and makes this connection viable. It's a new solution that saves and prevents affection with the Lemos Valley irrigation channel, and it's a project and a connection that will entail an investment by the Galician Union of 4.5 million euros. As far as deadlines are concerned, the environmental impact mapping project is now being drafted. After the last corrections of the technical document, and considering that this final solution adopted modifys the originally planned project, we will submit it to public information immediately; in particular, next December will be to public information so that anyone can make the corresponding allegations, and in parallel we will also start the environmental process. After being submitted to public information and approved for a final purpose, we will continue to move forward with the corresponding expropriation process, to obtain the lands necessary to do this work, and in parallel with the drafting for further approval of the construction project. Next year's budgets for 2018 include a concrete game to be able to materialize and advance in this infrastructure, EUR 750,000 for next year, and the concrete forecasts are that in 2018, we can therefore initiate the expropriatory procedure to advance this connection with the national 120 and complete the constructive project, and therefore, once the constructive project has been completed, immediately start the hiring of the works. So we will work to strengthen the competitiveness of the dry port of Monforte, so that it has two connections to the LU-933, the autonomic road, and to the national 120, to improve, therefore, the competitiveness of Monforte and all its surroundings, and to contribute, of course, to the dry port becoming a reference of activity and employment in the province of Lugo, and specifically in the south of Lugo. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u136	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Council of Galicia regarding the award, for the year 2018, of a specific budgetary departure for the reform of the Provincial Hospital of Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u137	To put the question, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u138	Thank you, President. According to WHO, breastfeeding reduces infant mortality, has a lot of benefits for babies and also for mothers themselves, because, according to WHO data, it decreases the risk of ovarian and breast cancer. We'd like to know if you agree — that we suppose so — if you share what the World Health Organization says, because, if so, at the Provincial Hospital in Pontevedra, you don't follow this pattern. In the nursing area, in the nursing room, so users say, lactation develops into a space where there is a cradle that is absolutely decimononic and a chair for mothers to practice lactation which is more a torture chair than a comfortable space for children to breastfeed. It's not easy for a child mother, and much more complicated if the mother is uncomfortable. In fact, about a month ago there was a pontiff family with a one-month-old baby who filed a complaint at the Patient Care Service. What happened was that the boy entered on October 20. In the first few days the lactation area was closed, and they were in the pediatric area — which is what we are talking about — for children over 2 years old. And when the change came, they discovered that reality was subhuman, and it was very complicated to be able to be in decent conditions in a place like this. But third-worldist isn't just the nursing room. The Provincial Hospital of Pontevedra, which is relatively in the center of the city, has the following services: internal medicine, infectious medicine, neurology, nephrology, dermatology, pediatrics and emergencies, obstetrics, xynecology, clinical analysis, a part of radiology, microbiology, a part of hematology, ophthalmology, the labor unit, the prison unit, the unit of hemodialysis, the unit of major outpatient surgery, the day hospital of psychiatry, and the oncology day hospital. Anyone who knows the hospital knows that it's not a space to host all these kinds of services, mainly because — I set an example of this summer and the past — the patients were soaking in heat, and you had to charge a cooling system through fans because they couldn't withstand the heat it made in the hospital. Too many services for degraded space — we believe — and we wonder if it is for you. There's an urgent need to expand Montecelo. You know well, Counselor, who boycotted the expansion of Montecelo which was proposed by the Government presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño. They went to Monte Carrasco -- that was the idea -- private hospital, like Vigo's, and then they decided not to, they discovered America and decided to come up with the proposal that the PSdEG had and therefore President Touriño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u139	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u140	Then I'll keep going. What I'm asking you is if you have a specific budget split for this year for the provincial hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u141	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u142	The truth is, today is the day the Government of the Union does everything by way of an indication of the Socialist Party. Look, breastfeeding. Logically, we support breastfeeding, as it couldn't be any other way. It's very important because it has a lot of proven benefits, and so Sergas isn't against this. What about the provincial hospital? Well, obviously, for many years in Pontevedra there's been a discussion of looking for a project that unites social demands with reality. It can hardly be said that the People's Party boycotted Mr. Pérez Touriño's idea because if Mr. Pérez Touriño really wanted to do something because he could have done it. A project was made, but, just like in Vigo too, models were made, presentations were made, lots of things... but it's true that it's said many times: we were going to do it; but it didn't come. When we make the decision, with a broad consensus, of enlargement, of doing the Great Montecelo, we understand — and we say, moreover — that the provincial wanted to abandon it because it is a hospital that is many years old, and for us, by the criteria we have at this time of hospitalization, consultation and urgency, it is not the best. That's why we're making a great project. Logically, that doesn't mean we don't act on the provincial hospital; we're acting on it. In fact, the Psychiatry Unit right now at Pontevedra Provincial Hospital is one of the best in Galicia. There was an incident and he took advantage of it to improve that service, and now, as I say, he's the best. And other units inside the provincial hospital are getting better. What you bring here is a family's complaint, and I, of course, apologize because I understand that there has been a situation that is not lacking in care. At no time do I believe that neither the Socialist Group nor this family evaluates an aid failure, but rather a lack of comfort. We're working on it, we're working on a general humanization plan for the entire Galician Health Service. We've had a meeting with the experts we have in the autonomous community -- and with experts from other autonomous communities -- and we're going to do it, and we follow a clear plan. What units do we have to start with? Well, obviously, in the most sensitive units, like everything that affects the area of birth and maternity — that's very important — psychiatry units, palliative units, emergency units and others, as I say, in which we are working. Therefore, within the situation that Pontevedra has, we are already making plans so that in 2018 we can have actions — as I say — in the heading that goes within the Plan of Humanization of the Galician Health Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u143	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo's reply. Give a voice to Mrs. Vilan's microphone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u144	Thank you, President. There was no incident in the psychiatry area, there was a fire. That's what happened, because one of the patients who was there burned down the psychiatry zone. They start with three identical letters, but they're two different things. I spoke to him about lactation, but lactation was this on the whole; I mean, it was a synecdocal of what I ask you in this question. We asked about the budget for the provincial hospital, we didn't ask about the lactation. We understand that you agree because you are not going to discredit the Councillor for Health of Galicia at the moment, as the World Health Organization says. Suppose you don't want to. The truth is that in 2008 the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño had a plan to expand to Montecelo. And the counsellor who preceded him in the office, with President Feijóo, went to Pontevedra, Montecelo, announcing, in the hall — the two of the chiefs of service — let's say, loyal to the Government — that Montecelo would not be extended but that a new hospital would be held. That's what happened, and it's in the newspapers, that is, in the hemero library. [[Applause]] I'm not making anything up at all. As we're saying, the provincial hospital is going to eat it before there's any chance of doing something with it. Because you're supposed to be in the hospital. Until recently blood was shed in a work container, Mr. Counselor, until a few months. I came in there, for I have little children who went to pediatric emergencies, and, if there are ten children, don't get caught in the waiting room, Counselor. I don't know what you're telling us here. The floor is rubber in many places of the hospital; black rubber, full of holes. Then don't tell us we're going to have to wait. If you have a project for the hospital, please tell me in which budget departure for next year's budgets is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u146	...because he's not in any of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo. Replica from the Government, by Mr. Vazquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u148	Indeed, Madam, I was the provincial director of Sergas a number of years ago. And at that time we also had a plan to expand Montecelo which, in your opinion, boycotted the Government that came after, which was Mr. Pérez Touriño. The case is that today, as you well say, we don't have a reality. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] But I do have to tell you what budget game with that name doesn't appear in the budgets. In the alternative assumptions presented by the Socialist Party if there is a high-performance centre in the Ten and a high-performance centre in the Morrazo. Of course, this is theoretically sports, it's not health; they confused the name. So, what's in the budget isn't important, the important thing is to do things. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'm saying that because, if it was important, they should review the amendments they make to the budget. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u149	Quiet, please. Listen to who is in the use of the word, just like he did in previous interventions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u150	...this is the one presented by you; this was presented by the Socialist Party... and speaks of a high-performance center. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Look, we're working and we're going very advanced, the truth is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u151	Please ask the Members who do not take part in the debate and who are not in the use of the word they hear who is in the use of the word. If they want to intervene, they present initiatives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u152	It's more advanced than what Mr. Pérez Touriño's government has done. And besides, we're going to see a reality that Mr. Pérez Touriño couldn't get into effect. I know they would, but they couldn't do it; we'll do it. Look, right now we're about to assist the team that is going to draft the Sectoral Plan, but also the Basic Implementation Plan of the new building in the Gran Montecelo, of the building that will take all the most important services in the area, the most sensitive: emergencies, pediatrics, the intensives and so on. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] We're currently, as I say, valuing offers in a few weeks, and for this there's a bid of around 1.2 million euros. The Gran Montecelo Project will extend the public hospital Pontevedres to an area equivalent to two comarcal hospitals, approximately 40,000 square meters in the first phase, and in the second, it will also improve the current area. This year 2017 we develop and present the Functional Plan and Spaces and next year 2018 is planned — as I say — the elaboration of the Plan of Submunicipal Incidence and the Basic Project of Implementation, which we want, of course, all. Therefore, in the Budget Project for 2018 we are planning for the Gran Montecelo Project, expropriation, the beginning of phase 1, 4.8 million euros. And, as I say, if what you ask is for the provincial, in case improvements are going to be made, I say yes; although we have a future project, we are going to do it, and, as I say, it is within the Sergas Humanization Plan, which will affect the most sensitive areas of this and other hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u153	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the specific measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the extreme drought situation in the primary sector of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u154	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u155	Madam Counsellor, over the past few months this parliamentary group has repeatedly brought to this House its concern about the dramatic and dramatic consequences of drought, in particular in the primary sector, and especially in Ourense; it has always proposed with the negative attitude and vote of its parliamentary group. It has been months since this situation is getting worse every week and we understand, from the BNG Parliamentary Group, that the affected people are not seeing the answer they need, neither from the sky nor — which we are most concerned about — from the Galician Union. He'll agree with me that this is going to be a very difficult year. At the end of March, first a strong frost bothered our thoughts and jumped the alarm signals, especially in a province that has four designations of origin, but the truth is that although the most popular, the most known, was the impact of the frost on the wine, it is true also that it not only damaged the wine and the garden, it also literally burned chestnut trees that were in bloom and also large parts of the pastures. As a result, we have important losses in the production of chestnuts and losses also in feeding for the cattle; not a quarter of the harvest in other years. It was past time, but the conditions that were required for this situation to improve were not given; rather, the climate, unfortunately, was in the opposite direction. We've had the warmest and rainiest spring since there's records in the 1980s, summer has been rough, and this fall also highlights the lack of rain; a lack of rain that at this point is already worrying the whole country. But today, in particular, we want to focus this question on the Oresan primary sector, because municipalities like Viana do Bolo, like The Mosque, like Chadrexa and a long et cetera, if they weren't the only ones who suffered from climate avatars this past year, it's true that maybe they were the ones who did it more intensely. And in addition, it is given the circumstance that we are talking about an area whose climatic characteristics are already themselves more dry and warmer than those of the rest of the country, and which are also aggravated by the high incidence of fires in this area; and, the greatest incidence, less recovery capacity, as you know. The results are dramatic in chestnut, and honey is estimated to be over 80% loss; and as far as livestock is concerned, they were already alerted in the summer that they were running out of capacity they had reserved forage for winter. In the meantime, the attitude of the Galician Union, in our view, was first characterized by indifference — it took months to react — and, secondly, by putting in place absolutely insufficient measures: soft credits that cannot pay if they lose everything and recent aid to infrastructures, such as drinkers and others, which, if well on one side, were already contemplated in the plans of improvement, because they are medium- and long-term infrastructures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u156	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u157	...and they're not useful for specific issues like helping to feed that cattle or beat the losses in honey and chestnut. In conclusion, and waiting for you today not to be entrusted solely with the help of the CAP, we want to ask you from the BNG what specific measures they will take so that this situation will have a way out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u158	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u159	...in the east of the Uransan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u160	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. To answer that, you have the word of the rural councillor, Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Your Honor. Madam Presas, believe me, I can assure you that the same concern you have is the one shared by the German Government. Share it for Ourense, of course, but also share it for the rest of Galicia. We are living in an atypical situation where climateology is concerned, not this year, but since the end of 2016. Logically, for this reason, the Council of Galicia has just enabled a package of measures, a package of measures which it explained on its day and which has been taken to the Council of the Union, because of course we have to support the agricultural and livestock holdings we have throughout the territory. This package of measures was announced on October 11, and in it are several pathways that we took, and a fundamental one was the one that moved us to the sector, to which the agricultural organizations and to which the mayors transferred us, which is an order to ensure the supply of water to agricultural farms. This is applicable on all farms, not only in Ourense, but in the rest of Galicia, because all Galicia is in a situation of early warning or alertness. The subsidisable concepts on these farms are water-supply structures, such as storage tanks, drinkers, pipelines for water-supply, where they do not assume a new water uptake on a river channel, sinking wells or building new wells, and equipment for improving water-supply to the growing farms with mobile tanks or mobile drinkers. This is one of the lines that ends at the end of this month, that there are already a good number of applications, and there is also a commitment by the Government. It's about a million euros for the year 2017-2018, but it's true that if it weren't enough for the government, it would expand the budget game to reach everyone. The content to be perceived will be at most 50%, and we set the limit to 5,000 euros per beneficiary. In this way, these kinds of performances are not useful for now, but also for them to have a future structure. To this we must add that, in fact, through the improvement plans of next year, of 2018, we are also expected to access structural improvements as far as the water is concerned, but also the own water structures for the different farms. This order will come out in advance of expenditure and will exceed 40 million euros. And besides, we did not delay, and therefore we asked for the advance of the CAP; an advance that is 70% and that also had an argument, and that argumentation, one of them, was the drought, the frost and the fattening that galicia whipped throughout this whole year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u162	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u163	Between tomorrow and the past 46 million euros will be paid, which are broken down as follows — and finished —: basic payment, 29.5 million euros; green payment, 15 million euros; small farmer scheme, 1.7 million euros; and young farmers, 86,000 euros. To those who have to add the payment already made last week between Thursday and Friday, where we're close to 34 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u164	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u165	In total, EUR 80 million in advance of the CAP.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Mejuto. Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u167	Thank you, Counselor, but the truth is that after your answer I stayed a little bit as I was. I know the contents of the Order of Aids from the drought, actually made reference to it in my intervention, but I reiterate to you that it is insufficient. You say it's measures that moved the sector and the mayors. I don't question him, but they also transfer many other issues that this parliamentary group doesn't understand why the People's Party hasn't considered yet. For example, explain to me what specific measures you have in mind so that both the livestock and the livestock don't have to sacrifice or sell livestock heads, when you've been putting them on the table for many months now that one of the first needs was food for the livestock. Because it's very good to improve the infrastructure to give him a drink, but if you just give him a drink to the cattle, that won't fix this critical situation. So here we are again leaving a proposal that we consider to be key. And you also talked about the CAP, which is actually not an advance, for a year that won't be late, because welcome is. But, in any case, you yourself know -- and better than me, sure -- what are the limitations of this kind of aid for our country too, and what is needed to reorient. In particular, on the issue of the CAP, since you are talking about it, I don't know if you can tell us what the outcome of your negotiations is at last so that they can go to more farmers than they would go, because they know the problems that this has, and for example, about the issue of burnt pasture. In any case, we understand that these aids leave out many sectors and many people affected and that it is still necessary for the Union to enable direct aid to compensate for the loss of both brown production and honey production, because they are still being excluded from all this kind of aid and will not be able to be compensated. It would be possible to make such aid with objective criteria by looking at last year's production. And, above all, it would be possible to include the glove...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u169	...because we understand that if for La Rioja it was possible for a Government of the People's Party to enable direct aid in the face of an exceptional situation, because in the face of an exceptional situation like this one, Galicia's Union should make economic resources available...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u170	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u171	...directly for these sectors. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. You have the word for the Government's reply to the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know what you meant, Mrs. Presas, when he says about the CAP negotiations. What I'm telling you is that this government opts for a line that I suppose is the line that you opt for, which is that the CAP should be directed to active farmers; that's on the one hand. On the other hand, if you're worried about what's going to happen to the burnt pastures, whether you're going to be able to feed or not, or whether you're going to charge the CAP next year or even this year, I think if you're going to be able to feed because we've made a situation of exceptionality, just as we've also made exceptionality, argued, of course, so that you have no kind of problem when you perceive the advance of the CAP or when you perceive the CAP towards the next year. But we also have to do structural measures. And within the structural measures, without knowing whether climate change has come to stay and to what extent we are going to have that climate change, because there is a fundamental help, and that fundamental help is for reorganization; reorganization where the rafts refer to, wells mean, plumbing refers to. But we're going further, and, for example, talking about Ourense, in this year's budget, in relation to the regatios, if last year we had 1.6 million euros for irrigation at the Limia, this year we tripled it by three and so we're going to 4.3 million euros. There is a very important and fundamental work done, which is all the environmental part; there are the projects made and so we will start the works this year. We must also remember, ladies and gentlemen, that drought is a risk, and as a risk it is, and in the face of awareness for a future, it is an insurance line. In that insurance line we increased the budget by more than 8%, we reached 5 million euros. And, therefore, a group of its own, own group has been created to analyse the situation in Galicia, to make the relevant changes, so that we can reach each sector; sectors that have been badly damaged throughout this year, such as the wine-growing sector and the cereal sector, among many others. Therefore, with this insurance line to have a conformity with them and at the same time to support them as far as we can so that they have what is their secured production both by each other. Besides, since summer and this summer something has been allowed in an exceptional way. Exceptional was the time, as exceptional was that we allowed the collection of water at all points that we had for helicopters and motorcycles, and therefore that during the summer they could not suffer and have to go to other places where they could even be punished. And in this case the gainees have been enabled and they still have been enabled right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u175	And then -- finished -- with a line of funding through the Igape, where frosts are included, on the one hand, on the other hand, the grass and, on the other hand, the drought. Ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Union has been, is and will always be with farmers and livestock, always with them and wherever they need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u176	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's turn to question 7.8. Question by José Antonio Quiroga Díaz and José Manuel Pérez Seco, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece in relation to the recruitment of helicopters for the fight against fires of the campaigns of 2011, 2012 and 2013
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u177	To put the question, Mr Quiroga Diaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u178	Good morning to all of you. Counselor, let's ask about the topic of helicopters, which began in 2015 after the prosecution's proceedings. In short history, in 2012, the Galega Interunion Confederation filed a complaint for the facts, considering that a million-year-old contract through which Inaer, the same as the Coast Guard, had been charged with the air media of the forest fire fighting service. At that moment, Junta explained that the proximity of summer and therefore the rush prevented him from convening a public contest or asking for offers from other companies, so she chose to entrust Inaer's service with a management order. In 2014, the Board of Auditors issued a report on the recruitment of the Board, where it can be found that the contract was extended by two extensions until 30 December 2011. However, despite the termination of the contract, the company continued to provide the service in the 2012 season. This, according to the Board of Auditors, was done without the mandatory contractual coverage. The report of the Board of Auditors completes the panorama by concluding that the Council of the Rural Environment and the Sea — then at the same time — has exceeded the call for the new contract. In the process Inaer and another company competed, which according to Junta did not meet the requirements, so he declared desert the contest. It subsequently called for a negotiated procedure and, however, at this point, the Council had already introduced a substantial modification of the initial conditions according to the Council, which for the same body was subject to a legal obstacle with infringement of the principles of publicity and transparency. According to the Board of Auditors itself, the Council should have called for a new open procedure, which it did not, which could compete with other undertakings concerned and with the ability to conclude the contract, and not grant Inaer directly. This conclusion of the Board of Auditors was the one that expounded the judicial investigation and reactivated the procedure in which the Director General and other persons are investigated. In view of this, the Government of the Union claims that things have been done properly, or that says the Legal Counsel, but it seems not all is so right. For all this, the Socialist Group asks: What measures does the German Government intend to put in place in the face of these facts, obviously in addition to waiting for justice, in which we all trust? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Quiroga Díaz. The rural councillor, Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u180	Thank you, Mr. President. You ask a question asking for an explanation, an urgent explanation for the seriousness of the facts related to the adjudication of the helicopter contract of the campaigns 2011, 2012 and 2013. I don't understand very well this urgency, nor do I understand very well all that you wanted to ride around all this, because we are before some facts that have been analysed since 2013 by the trial, competent trial as a consequence — as you well said — of a complaint initiated by a union organization, and that since then is following its judicial process, without concealing absolutely nothing, giving the Rural Middle Council all the facilities, as it could not be otherwise, for it to be opened accordingly and, finally, there is a verdict. As it indicates, what points to public information is that in the years 2011 and 2012 there were two extraordinary circumstances; extraordinary circumstances — I repeat again — because they happened in those years as may occur in other years and also happened this year. On the one hand, serious incendiary activity in the months of September and October, which resulted in extraordinary spending in 2011, and great incendiary activity in the months of February and March in the year 2012. And in the face of an emergency situation that demanded that the Galician Council had airstrikes for its campaign, it acted in the same way, also urgently, inside — as I say — an extraordinary performance. Ladies and gentlemen, that extraordinary mechanism has been correct. This is what you have been looking at since 2013 at the competent trial, so if someone is to clarify whether or not the processing of such files was the case at this stage, it's the judges; I think it's not Parliament, I think it's not the political group, because we must also make it easier for that to be so. If you asked me if I think they acted or acted correctly, I am convinced that they acted correctly. From here I can say that a survival situation has led to these measures, extraordinary measures that are to be used, and that it must be the justice that determines with full respect to this would advise its conformity. But I must also say that normalized the extraordinary situation, the successive recruitments of the Rural Council, as it cannot be otherwise, have followed and will follow the corresponding regular procedures, using the procedures appropriate to legislate contracts in the public sector. Fire-fighting helicopters treat themselves in a completely legal way, scrupulously respecting the principles...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u182	...transparency and free competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Quiroga Díaz has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u184	Yes, Counselor. We are not faced with the views of a union or a political group, we are talking about conclusions of the Board of Auditors, which are meridianly clear. And we understand that the case well deserves a thorough review of these types of contracts. And when you asked what to do, we already said that we would also be waiting, as I suppose everyone, for the judicial resolutions, but at least we understand, given the silence on the subject, that we should conduct an audit, an external audit, to evaluate these types of contracts, which is not the first one, and that, better said, it appears repeatedly in the public media and is being put on sole ground. Because in our understanding, we're faced with clearly headstrong adjudications and, as the Board of Auditors says, at least irregular. We're not talking about illegality, but we're clearly talking about irregularity. So it's not a topic to rule out but to be very present and give you all the importance, and this modus operandi confirms a dynamics of mismanagement, as the Board of Auditors reiterates. We are therefore faced with decisions presided over by improvisation with disastrous consequences for public buildings; improvisation which is repeated and repeated continuously as we could appreciate in this last wave of fires. And that's what we're questioning, and that's what we're proposing: that you do an audit that reflects these bad or irregular functionings in the spirit of improving them and making them clear and transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Quiroga Díaz. He's got the Government's reply to the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u186	Thank you, President. Once again, Your Honor, I must insist that the board can do nothing but scrupulously deal with contractual legality, the corresponding procurement procedures with publicity and transparency, so that the companies that want it can compete freely. Well, there's not the same number of companies to rent cars as to rent airplanes and helicopters, that's the reality. And all of this based on clauses and technical prescriptions targeted by legal technicians and with different procedures, examination of documentation and economic proposals, involving technicians, lawyers and also interveners. So what I say to you, Mr President, is that what the Council has done at all times has been to process the contractual procedures provided for in the legislation of contracts in order to be able to put at the service of the extinction of fires the air resources which were considered the most technically appropriate. What is more, Your Honor: this council was beyond the strict ordinary contractual process in order to win the largest and best intervention by companies in this air-fuel market for the extinction of fires, to achieve that free competition that promotes efficiency and ensures good conditions in contracts. So, in the case of a very recent case file, for the hiring of air vehicles processed that same year, and where a lot remained desert, we went over there and asked the market for suggestions to improve the technical conditions of the procurement in the future. The Rural Media Council conducted a transparent and public market survey — and you too were able to opt for it — in order to be able to best define the economic scenario of these types of contracts and to be able to listen, if any, to any allegations about the technical improvements in which companies can provide the service. The announcement, if you would like to consult, of the consultation — worth redundancy — was published on 10 March 2017 at the Transparency Portal, Participation and Relations with Citizenship. And in this consultation they had the opportunity to participate freely all companies that are on the market to improve efficiency within this contract. I mean, we go over there, we ask for suggestions, we make it even wider, and from there we draw conclusions. Therefore, Your Honor, in response to your question, I can only tell you that this council, in addition to scrupulously respecting contractual regulations, already in itself absolutely respectful of transparency and publicity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u188	...has also offered more transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u189	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the view of the Government of Greece regarding the guarantee of sufficient protection from the coasts of Galicia in the face of a situation similar to the Prestige disaster with the actions carried out for the past 15 years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u190	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u191	Good morning, Counselor. Last day 13 we celebrated the fifteen years of the beginning of the Prestige catastrophe, an accident of an oil tanker who turned into a tragedy to Galicia because of the incompetence in the management of it by the Government of the United States and the Spanish Government, both in the hands of the People's Party. A date at BNG we want to take advantage of to balance. The Fisterra corridor is one of the places in the world where most dangerous commodities pass through. According to maritime rescue data, during 2016 they sailed ahead of our coasts more than 40,000 ships. These, about twelve thousand eight hundred with dangerous goods. One hundred ships a day, of which about thirty-five carry dangerous goods; thirty-five clock bombs a day that can be detonated in front of Galicia's back at any time. Fifteen years later, key decisions for Galicia, such as those concerning maritime rescue, are still being taken from Madrid and not from our country. Don't you think, Counselor, that Galicia would be much better off having the political power and skills to manage our own problems from here on, especially since we are the country with the highest rate of black tides from all over Europe? As for emergency devices, we see how the maritime security system in Galicia follows the model of privatization. By the end of the 1980s, a popular cry for means and measures had led to the creation of the Public Search and Maritime Rescue Service. After the Prestige tragedy they realized that there was a need for media, Junta decided to buy two larger boats, two helicopters and create the Coast Guard Service. In 2005, after receiving the two ships, the People's Party decides to privatize them and to assist them with the privatisation of Remolcanosa; it has extended the contract at an average cost of EUR 6 million a year; and it has already delivered over EUR 50 million. Also in 2005, after buying two helicopters, they decide to privatize it too, privatize its operation and maintenance, they hand it over to Inaer. And in 2012 they gave them half as much as it cost in 2005. In 2017, they just handed him back the service after a contest that was also highly questioned. That's right, it seems after asking for suggestions on the market. In this context, they have just skipped the alarms by knowing the imputation of the Director General of Forest Management, precisely by handing it over to the same company that you have also delivered to you maritime rescue. And it seems to us like a scandal, Counselor, Darkness, Lack of Transparency, Procedure questioned by the Board of Auditors, a lack of studies that assess this privatization is more efficient than doing it with public services. So we asked him: What is the priority of the People's Party, if the safety of the seamen, the protection of our backs or the business of friendly companies? Or what is the priority of the Government of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u192	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u193	...mister of counsel, if you have powers and resources to defend our backs or to serve the interests of Madrid? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u194	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u195	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, starting with where you've finished, if you ask me what is the priority of the Government of Galician Union, I'll always tell you that the safety of the people who work at sea every day; that's above all. But in order to achieve that security, we were able to create the Marine Rescue Service and Fight Pollution at its own time. [[Applause]] You, in your question, told me whether Galicia was more prepared today than fifteen years ago, and I say yes. And you said November 13 was a day to remember that it was done, that it happened, and you're trying to see it all black, the difference between us. Look, we, when there's a catastrophe, we act, we solve the problems of people living that catastrophe, and then, once we've overcome that crisis, we analyze what we have to do, so in case we get back to giving, we're much better prepared. And that's exactly what we've done in the last fifteen years. Once the Prestige crisis was overcome, what did we do? We got to work. And are we going to say right now that Galicia is better prepared than fifteen years ago? I'm telling you so loudly. Look, today we're moving forward in operational plans. In 2012 Galicia presented a Plan to fight against marine pollution, the Camgal plan, which we re-modified in 2016 to adapt it to what the State did in 2016, the National Plan of Response against marine pollution. We're also moving forward in the media supply plan, because we've built two ships -- as you well said -- two ships equipped with means of combatting marine pollution, and those two ships have been fully operational since 2005. Besides, along with the Aensa we provide a new ship, the Ría de Vigo ship, equipped with the best technological means for the entire northwest of the Iberian peninsula, where the Junta de Galicia contributes to its maintenance and operation. We're moving forward in research plans: fourteen research projects are being carried out by the Council of the Sea staff from the Intemar and Cetmar. Of these fourteen research projects, two were recently awarded in the European Union. We are called to contribute to other regions of the European Union to see the progress made in Galicia. We've also advanced, Spain has advanced, in policy plans, contributing to the implementation of Erika I, II and III packages to ensure that mono-hunt ships stop circulating by the waters of the European Union. And all that got pushed from Galicia. Look, acknowledge that in the face of the sea situation, the unpredictable changes that can occur every day at sea, that any region of the world is prepared to assume an accident like the Prestige would be to say that I lie. There's no region around the world that can be prepared for such a 100 percent situation. But not recognizing that Galicia is better prepared today than it was 15 years ago would be to deny the evidence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u196	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintana. You have the floor to reply to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u197	Look, Mrs. Quintana, fifteen years later, the least you could do was recognize that the action of her government and the Government of Madrid was to turn an accident into a real catastrophe for our country; at least they might have recognized that. [[Applause]] And they could recognize that in order to have some public rescue services you did it was privatize the service, because they handed over over over 50 million euros to Remolcanosa, Silveira, when the ships are public, and they carried out a privatization of helicopter services, because they paid 27 million, sold them for 12, went to pay 9 million where they paid 2; that is, a real scandal, Mrs. Quintana, a real scandal. At least, incompetence! Look, fifteen years later there can be a new catastrophe like the Prestige and Galicia still have no competence to deal with this accident; fifteen years later the decisions are still made in Madrid. You could recognize that! The PP has voted against all the initiatives put forward by the BNG in which it urged us to demand the competences in ship dispatch, in navigation, in maritime safety, in maritime rescue, in preserving the public character of the Coast Guard Service. Fifteen years later a comprehensive study of the impact of the black tide has not been prepared, they have privatized the water and air media, they've gone to charge for the marine rescue, they don't do rescue simulations, it's not established which are the shelter ports, Mrs. Quintana, there's no satellite control system to control the sentries of thousands of ships that pass past our coasts. Madam Quintana, fifteen years later, the People's Party is set up in the policy of looking like it does, when what it does is actually handed over millions of euros to private companies, it has made a whole question, as always, of a lot of propaganda and really little action. And, of course, do you consider that in the face of a catastrophe like that of Prestige Galicia has the means to deal with a catastrophe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u198	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u199	...with guarantees? Do you think you need to call Madrid to take action and to ask permission is the right situation for our country, Mrs. Quintana?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u200	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u201	Will they ever stop being servants and take the rents to defend our country, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u202	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Mar councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo, has the floor for the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u203	Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, "you have to be able to distinguish between gaining skills and acting effectively together when there is a crisis," remember that phrase? President Touriño told her when you were ruling in the Bipartite, with a catastrophe of a ship that wasn't even the Prestige, but that he's been going around here on the coast of Galicia for quite a while. Look, I told you in my first speech: don't ask me to say Galicia is ready to face a crisis like that of the Prestige. That's what the most important directive of the European Marine Pollution Agency said: there is no country in the world that can be prepared for itself to fight a situation like that of the Prestige. But it's just, you see, he didn't say it, that when there was the ecological disaster in the Gulf of Mexico in the United States, Galicia sent the United States to fight this pollution. If the European Union has no means, if the United States has no means, do you think Galicia, however big we consider ourselves, would we be prepared, Mrs Prado? Home!, the truth is, at last, you come here and I think you want to manipulate it all, because you tell me I hand over the boats to Remolcanosa, Mr. Silveira, to a private company. But where were you in 2006, Mrs. Prado? I think she was a presidential delegate in the province of Pontevedra. Don't you remember that on July 12, 2006 they signed a contract with Remolcanosa to manage the marine rescue and pollution fighting boats and that this contract lasts twenty-five years, Mrs. Prado? I have to tell you that in 2009 we made an allowance to incorporate the Ría de Vigo vessel, and we lowered the price of the contract you left. And I have to tell you that in 2011 we again sign an addendum to this contract with Repolcanosa, and we lower the bid price back to more than 1,700,000 euros. And I have to tell you that we do not privatize the Maritime Rescue Service, the Maritime Rescue Service has always been created by a Government of the People's Party. And we made it much more operational, the only thing we did was improve it: we have the best helicopters, we have the operating service 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. And you can't compare the prices that we're paying in 2017 with those benefits that were paid in 2004 when we created the service. Mrs. Prado, I tell you one thing: our contracts are public, public tenders have been made, these contracts have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union, a public consultation has been made, published in the Official Journal of Galicia too, and they have been charged with a value of EUR 700,000 less than the contract that was in 2012. I don't know where you want to see manipulation. Perhaps I would have to explain to myself — and I told you the other time — why you guys in 2006 continued to pay for the contract that we had instead of making a new bid, and all they did was do was pay after the charges until they left the government, increasing those contracts by 1,700,000 euros without making a public tender.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u205	Did you have any business with Inaer? Because we certainly don't, because what we do is public tender. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u206	Thank you very much, Counselor. We've now recovered the pending interrogation of substance. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. in Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in the field of emergency care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u207	Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u208	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Rueda. I heard yesterday, the truth, with attention to his appearance, because he keeps in touch with this interpellation that we had already planned to bring the collation of the emergency situation, with attention and with concern, the truth. Concern because despite the errors that occurred during the fire strike and reported by the various professionals, you have not assumed any of the errors, no responsibility or the existence of any fault in your management and in the emergencies of Galicia itself. And that pride, Mr. Rueda, was the same thing that took us only a few months ago to the Greeks and the Greeks to have to be spectators and spectators of a 112 staff strike, which could have been avoided if you sat down and talked in advance about the conditions for the transfer of staff from the station. Pretending that nothing happens, looking the other way until the problem is already facing us, it's not, of course, responsible. And we understand that what you can't do is come here and move that responsibility is for others and others. So, almost 90 days off, incapacity for his manifest and obvious part of dialogue, and finally had to be — as you will remember and how we moved here in another interpellation we held — the Galego Labour Relations Council, which had to force them to sit down with workers and workers. And despite his refusal to engage in dialogue, the attempted boycott of strike, fortunately the struggle of these workers and workers gave their fruit with the achievement of claims at work. But we, from En Marea, who actually questioned and asked about it then on several occasions, warned that there were two themes, two problems: on the one hand, the fundamentally labor and, on the other hand, the situation of the material media in emergencies. More importantly, you know the computer system for receiving and managing emergency calls and more the absence of sufficient resources. The labour issue was resolved in part only with regard to staff complaints, which prompted this indefinite strike. But the situation of staff on many occasions, especially those who attend the calls, those who regulate themselves by those call center agreements, remains precarious. And our group has already transferred to it the need for emergency services in our country to be public, and on occasion also the absence of sufficient staff. As for the material media, they warned before the strike of the problems related to the platform. You've decided to make that transfer the same way, without giving the necessary training and with system failures; we've already moved it through that one in this House itself. We had a program that worked, but you decided to deploy another one, hiring it to Mrs. Martín de Pozuelo Romay's company. Today, in fact, some aspects of the system itself have been changed, because it has been making mistakes since the beginning, and there have been some slight improvements. But just a few weeks before the fire strike, the workers and the workers, Mr. Rueda, reported that there were still problems with the system, reporting at the end of September queues of calls that overflowed the central, despite the fact that this summer there were fewer emergencies compared to previous years. And with that texture, with that circumstance, it was with which we had to reach the month of October, even the wave of fires. We want you to tell us, Mr Rueda, how after a whole year of complaints we can continue in this situation. When we visited the dependencies, we were told that if it was necessary, the staff would be increased and the old program would be used if there were crashes. I don't know if they did it during the fire strike, I don't know if they needed to do it, and I want to know if you can move something here about it. But there is, Mr. Rueda, a fact that has been out of the parliamentary debate since September, and that is precisely the resignation of Mr. Juan José Muñoz, the manager of the Axea, the Gaga de Emergency Agency, just a few weeks before the fire strike. The same thing that boycotted the strike of the workers, who pressed the templates on strike. And the same thing that you've had, in addition, an attitude to the truth is that it is quite hostile to the Members when you visit the dependencies of 112, the person responsible for the agency of resources, all these years. And, Mr Vice-President, there have been many occasions when the staff denounced the repeated negligence of the protocols, the lack of resources to respond to emergencies, discoordination or resource problems. And this same group, and also as the Left Galaga Alternative by that time, we have brought up the serious shortcomings of means and coordination that the Greeks and the Greeks had to suffer, for example, in that Fandicosta fire, in the case of the Cotobade carpentry or in the case of the sinking of the New Marcos fishing, as we already remind you of the interpellation we made last time. Maybe what happened is that it wasn't a resignation for personal reasons, and what happened was that you stopped it, and you should do it, and you should do it and you should do it well, and you should move here if that's the case. Because the reality is that the discoordination of the media, the mismanagement and the atomization make when there is a catastrophe the system is insufficient and the system collapses. I would like to know, Mr Vice-President, if you have taken some steps to solve this situation, which explanation can provide you with the lack of means and the lack of planning, and obviously with the occurrence of these examples, but also with the lack of fires, if you are going to assume some kind of responsibility. It seems very serious to us, and it has already been transferred to comrade Villares yesterday at his own appearance, and you, however, yesterday threw balloons out, announcing a series of measures that on many occasions don't even assume a novelty. Of course, you're going to have to talk about this search for fire stations, which you didn't even announce yesterday here, because Mr. Minor himself had already talked about this matter and adapted the services, expanded the services, etc. But, Mr. Rueda, staff have repeatedly denounced the absence of an updated intervention team map, the arbitrary management of specific coverage of resources, the lack of technical criteria in media mobilization and a situation that is not new and that stems from the absence of effective coordination and privatization of many resources. Some of the examples have already been set. And, of course, what you did yesterday was to shed your responsibility by talking about Law 5/2007, of emergencies, but, Mr. Rueda, only the articles that suit you. Unfortunately, you have unloaded responsibility in the councils and deputies, and obviously you haven't talked about your responsibility. By the way, the same municipalities that you strangle financially with 135 and with the Law of Local Regime Bases, preventing them from increasing services, not only in the case of extinction, firefighters, but the rest of the public services needed in a municipality. But, of course, Members and Councils have their responsibility, of course they do. God gave the rule himself, and it's in those places where we have to complain to them if we consider it not to be done. But the Council of Galicia — we have the rule here — also has its responsibilities: Article 11, Mr. Rueda, of the powers of the Council of the Union; Article 12, of the person holding the presidency, i.e. Mr. Feijóo, single command in an emergency case that is considered by the Council of Galicia; and Article 13, of the person holding the competent council, i.e. you. You have responsibility for the Territorial Civil Protection Plan, special plans, map, risk catalogue, decision on emergency plans, Platerga, all this — Article 13 — is your responsibility; to require the collaboration of the administrations. And point (h) of the article, for example: "Coordinate the actions of the Board with the other administrations. Promoting training in the field of civil protection, etc., etc., etc. And since you complain about local administrations, even if you allow them to intervene in the ability to act from local administrations. But we understood that it was not necessary and that it would be unfair, because the municipalities, to a greater or lesser extent and with the abilities they had, did they meet. And that's why you didn't need to make use of that article. Mr. Rueda, we'd like to know what you're going to do to supplement, to solve the emergency situation with regard to your responsibility; not what you have to do with the councils and deputies, which I repeat will be where we have to ask for responsibilities from the councils and deputies. In the face of the collapse of 112 -- and I'm finished now -- it's not just worth saying that what happened was an exceptional situation. Of course, it was, it's obvious. There may be a situation that increases the number of calls. But, Mr Rueda, what can't be seen is this with a precedent of repeated complaints of lack of coordination and lack of resources. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u209	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the thanks and gratitude for that change in the agenda, motivated by the assistance of an act against masculine violence, I thank you for changing the agenda and also to you, Mrs Solla, for listening to me yesterday with attention and with concern, which was what you said. I'm sorry to have disappointed you, though I'm sure that, as I said, it would be disappointing the same, because -- you also said it here -- it was clear what it was coming and what it was going to say today. Let me speak of the proposals of the Galician Council, of our responsibility... Of course we have! I'll try to explain it again, because it gives me a chance. Of course, we have a responsibility to care for emergencies. And, therefore, saying what we're going to do to make this better for you doesn't matter. I was hoping for something else, I was hoping I'd have arguments to do. It's very legitimate. But I didn't expect to recognize anything constructive or to join that proposal for construction and coordination. And, therefore, from there to the magic word you always use, "sovereign," there's a step. Yeah, look, sovereignty, none; constructive proposals, everyone in the world. But when you guys run out of arguments, we're always the same. Look, when I saw that this question was being put on the agenda, knowing that there was an appearance to talk about it, because I understood — many and many, and not only of my party, they thought the same thing —: lack of confidence — Mr. Villares would do it — that it was not enough a barrel, that he had not told everything not because he did not. So you went to the next day—the truth is, after all, Mr. Villares wasn't too constructive, too little constructive—in any case, you've come with this interpellation to do what you just did right now. Well, I'm going to try to get something out of the way — at least from the Galician Union and the citizens' side — out of the emergency debate. Apart from that, I'm going to do it again in Parliament. By the way, today, the Deputy of Pontevedra, the most responsible, said it was intolerable that I had come here yesterday to explain to Parliament before the cities what I wanted to do with the emergency board. That is the respect of Parliament that some public officials have. I'm going to keep thinking that it's in Parliament where I have to make the first proposals and then debate them and try to execute them elsewhere, however bad it looks like you or anyone. [[Applause]] In his explanatory statement, he was talking about a lot of things, 112 and more. Of course, we'll also talk about 112, which you and I also have a special interest in that it works well, what happens is that I come with real data and you come with twisted data, unupdated data and, ultimately, data that try everything, in my opinion, less than 112 improves. You speak of the need to update the service map; you speak of the fact that geographic coverage of resources is not appropriate and therefore you have to change it; you talk about the lack of territorial balance in the protection of citizenship and therefore you have to redeploy resources; you talk about what our criteria are in the mobilization of the media and you demand — I insist, in your exposure and I understand that here too — an explanation about what we are going to do about the lack of means and the precariousness — in your opinion — of emergency care. Well, the first thing I'm saying is, to exercise our powers. In no way have I come to say here, in no way, that responsibility is another, that they are of all administrations. I insist, each one, on the exercise of his powers. So we'll have to coordinate them. I mean, 60 percent of the public resources, that is, tax resources for all the Greeks and the Greeks, are the ones for the Galician Union — and the other 40% among the other responsible administrations — to try to make this work. So, hey, this is for giving them accurate answers to the things you're asking, if that's what you really want to know. If you're interested in knowing other things that take a little while to fix problems, we can talk about that too. But I'm going to try to make all of this useful, at least if it's useful — I insist — on the side of the Galician Union. As for the redistribution of troops and the new geographic coverage, so you ask me, I use it to explain it again. I think it was clear, but I'll explain it again. That's the proposal for comarcallization, extending geographic coverage where it's not happening right now. That's what we're going to do, Mrs. Solla. That's why we demand collaboration. First I come to explain it in Parliament and then we demand the collaboration of the other administrations, who have to put money like us and have to put resources like us. And you'll have to sit down, of course, to see how all this articulates, how it is organized, and how we're quick to talk about emergencies. Of course, you'll have to, and make it quick. I also spoke about geographic distribution, resource rationalization and the creation of new emergency groups — I spoke of five — That's the proposal of the Galician Council, not to waste time. I mean, we already have the diagnosis, we have a proposal. Hey, so five groups. If then they have to be four or six, for we'll see; if they don't have to be in this particular area and they have to move a little geographically, we'll see it as well. But there will therefore have to be a proposal to discuss and there will have to be resources to support it, which is what we propose. I also believe that with this I agree with the part of what you are asking me, and I use it to remember that we have moved from 65% of the territory in less than 20 minutes to more than 90%, and from 35% of the population to more than 95%; population, in addition, in rural areas so far especially unprotected. I've also talked about other emergency actions. I'm glad to say again that if you can really agitate everything you have to do with, everything related, changing the model of the comarcas parks, the 25 comarcas parks, it would be very good to be able to go agitating everything you're asking me about: redistribution, poorly distributed, precarious, poorly planned media... all that is required is to know how fire parks will be managed, and, if necessary, to make some sort of changes. I also spoke -- and I said nothing to you yesterday, or, of course, today, they don't care about anything, and they really matter to us -- about groups of civil protection volunteers, who are also a fundamental emergency resource. There are many thousands of women and men who, in exchange for nothing, simply recognize their work, equipping them with means and training, devote many hours to essential services that complement them in a way that, if they were not, would be very difficult to make comprehensive coverage. All of this would have to be talked about, too, and this is on the planning board of Galicia. And, of course, I also suggested that you continue to talk about moving forward and improving the 112 emergency center on the Highway. You insist that change was a political whim. Well, hey, first of all, it wasn't a political whim, and secondly, I'm telling you that it was already planned. I've explained it, in fact, many times in this House, the times you asked me and other times I've been asked by other groups, or by my appearances. We also explain it outside Parliament, but in Parliament first. It's just that there was already a proposal for change that we found. Yes, a much more expensive proposal -- the building was worth nearly 14 million euros. Before hiring the building it was already randomly hired — oh, miracle! by a secret security procedure — the computer platform, which no one knew more than what charged it and what would do to it. And that's what we found in the two-party government. We did things a little better, we improved -- because it needed it and it was very urgent -- what was at that time in 112. And in time we were planning the transfer that now took place. That's what it's all about. Exactly make good emergency planning. Everything else, to give data, as I'm telling you, that they're not updated about 112, about the distribution of the troops, meaning that the Board does scapism when it does everything otherwise, to mean that we don't exercise our responsibilities when what we want is to exercise them, but exercise them in a way that is effective, is simply not to understand — or at least not to understand the way it should be — how emergencies are planned. As I believe that with this we play a lot, I take this opportunity and I thank this opportunity to explain again not what I explained yesterday but to explain what is happening in the matter of emergencies and to explain the responsibilities of the Council of Galicia. Everything else, if you don't want to understand it, we'll be wasting our time. And in emergencies time really cannot be wasted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u211	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u212	Thank you, President. Mr Rueda, you are a Member, you know how the plenary orders are made. I'm sorry that you have to use these kinds of plots to make a dumpling in the middle. You'll see, come on! We prefer to talk about the emergencies of the country and the relevant in this wave of fires, but also about all the warnings that have been made over a year about the operation of the new central in this case. But there were previous reports of years earlier that moved the disunity that, as I have already told you, unfortunately we had to live in the Fandicosta fire, in the sinking of the New Marcos, and that we do not restrict ourselves only to the unfortunate wave of fires that lived in our country. You do as you consider. We want to talk about emergencies, and to me that it is superb, Mr Rueda — you can't categorized otherwise — the attitude that you have and have maintained — including your subordinates — in the absence of dialogue in the negotiation of the transfer of staff of 112. You'll understand that, if you've been sent to an indefinite strike, you can't otherwise qualify, when you don't sit down and negotiate until you've been forced by the Galician Labour Relations Council. And unfortunately — and I would like to hear it from your mouth here today — it seems that you will take the same risk or the same future the staff of the 061. Because you announced yesterday in this same House that during the coming year a lot of transfers will be carried out, including the 061, also Marine Rescue and the rest of the services, police and other services. However, the professionals, the staff, have no idea of anything at all, because no one felt to negotiate with them. We would like them not to be drawn to a situation like the one you submitted to the staff of the 112, which, of course, does not strike by their own will but by the absence of dialogue. And the same thing happens in this case. You don't want to hear the opposition proposals. We presented a number of measures to you yesterday. But besides, you didn't assume any responsibility, so I had to bring the rest of the articulate of the law, from which you read only the appropriate articles yesterday. And, I repeat, every administration has its responsibility, indeed. But theirs is to coordinate all the services, to coordinate the plans, to give training, to design the management, plan and coordination of the country's own emergencies. And you cannot escape that responsibility by transferring it to the municipalities, which, better or worse, did their work with the means they had; and, on many occasions, without being able to contact you while burning part of the territory of your municipalities. That's what we're going to do, and you've come up with a series of measures. How sad it must have been after a wave of fires such as that black Sunday, after all that destruction, of human losses, of material and environmental losses, that you come here to realize that we have to reform the emergency situation! Very sad, Mr. Rueda! But I reiterate that you have not even brought any news here, because it was Mr. Minor that the other day in commission has already spoken of measures regarding comarcaalization. And you announce EUR 1.7 million. I'd like to know where part of the 2018 budgets are those matches. Tell me, please, concept and subconcept where is the game you're going to play, because it doesn't exist. This group has proposed a refund amendment to the Agega and the rest of its vice-presidency, which has to do with the management of its own emergencies. And the reality is that there are no services, there are no games to implement those services. And we have the investments here, Mr. Rueda, and there's no such game. The matches, even for materials, are totally low. By the way, you also announced yesterday that new materials would be implemented, I don't know if Mr. Faílde Pereiras or any other company is going to supplement them. But we have it on the table and there's no budget. The reality is, you don't assume your responsibility. And I'd like to, because I was quite worried after your intervention yesterday, to clarify us here and tell the workers of 061 if you think of uniting numbers 112 and 061. Because we saw during the wave of fires that the collapse of 112 later translated into that, from Junta itself, irresponsiblely, if it was called -- it was redundancy -- it was also 061, that they had to attend calls that had nothing to do with health emergencies. And if there aren't two operational numbers, Mr. Rueda, I don't know what would have happened. Imagine, in the face of a collapse, that 112 is the same number, the same receiver, of health emergency calls. I don't want to know what would have happened. You should clear it up. He also announced a contact number — and I'll be done by now — for mayors and mayors. This has to happen so you can take some action, which is the mayors and mayors who claim it. There is no game. Tell us what workers and workers are going to assume these responsibilities, because we are very afraid, Mr. Rueda...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u214	...that whatever happens to his intervention yesterday and to the measures he announces are merely empty announcements that will finally fall upon the municipalities themselves, which, unfortunately, are strangled by their rules of taxation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Solla, I'm left with a sentence you said, and that's what we agree with. He said, "You do whatever you want," because you were going to talk about emergencies. Well, that's what I talked about yesterday and what I came to talk about today. And I reiterate that, after an apparition, you'll say what you want. I can have my opinion, as you have. I see you're upset. Maybe it's because we gave it to the nail. I know perfectly well how Parliament works. What I don't know very well is how your group works. But as far as they're concerned, I probably had quite a reason what I was telling you. It's too bad. They weren't very constructive yesterday, and they weren't absolutely constructive today. But I have to clarify some mistakes, though it doesn't matter, which is like preaching in the desert, I tell you with all due respect. You have the responsibility of government. If we're going to have some kind of collaboration to be able to com-archalize, so that we can continue to expand the supra-municipal emergency groups, to make the changes that need to be made, we'll see that in that working group. We'll see if we're moving forward, since here, with you, at least, it's a bit difficult. But, look, by clarifying some things I think it's time to clarify them, I'm glad you tell them so that I can answer them. There are specific things you said, for example, about 112. He says, "No, it's just that the Labour Relations Council forced us to negotiate." No, it's all right with you. What happened is that, since there was no agreement between companies and workers, the Galego Labour Relations Council, of course, intervened, as it always does in these cases. And in the end, it came to an agreement. What's wrong? When does the Labour Relations Council intervene, is it because someone requires it? Is it because people are going with a gun in their chest? No, no, it's a mechanism that's at the service of workers and employers to reach agreements. And many times it's coming. I think he's doing a great job, and in this case he can come to an agreement. So you don't contain what it isn't. Talk about the platform. Look, it turns out you guys got tired of saying that the platform didn't work because, of course, how we assigned it to friends to do business on average, so, of course, how will the platform work like that? Ah!, but when the platform started to work, and during the fire strike — which in situations of maximum tension is when it really proves whether things work or not — you know there was no problem. More importantly, there was a computerist in there who had some kind of problem and didn't have them. So, what happens, that the platform in charge of friends suddenly works well and that has nothing to do with it and that was all they said was a lie? And I just needed some initial adjustments to be a platform where everyone agrees that it undoubtedly improves the operation of the previous platform. That's why this change was made, so we didn't take care of the secret procedure, as was done in the Bipartite—they'll know who—a platform without even the building, which would cost twice as much in another county. We wanted to do things right; first, make the building and charge the platform parallelly so that it all started to work and that it was all unfolded today. That's what happened, tell you the truth. As if you can't come here cheerfully saying that a gentleman treated you with hostility when you were visiting. Listen! for there were other comrades and their companions — of course, as they are not from their party at best they do not have such authority to say things — who say they were treated with exquisite treatment, as is the case with any public servant, anyone serving an administration that has to attend to Parliament's representatives. Perhaps it had gone with preconceived prejudices, or, precisely, it was the opposite of what you said. I don't know, but you can't come here and say these things cheerfully. I'm sorry to tell you, because people deserve some respect too. From the 112 balance sheet, look, I think it's good to say that since it started operating until October, 631,000 calls have been answered, which are 150,000 managed incidences, 40,000 health types. Because, yes, people call a lot of times and then we have to do the drifts. Look, about integration, you're a lot more concerned about integration than everybody else. I guess it's because someone moves you to say these things here. Look, there's no forecast, at least to this day, at least it's up to me. What is there is a need — and I think it's good — that it is centralized in a physical space. Yesterday I was completely opposed. The spokesman for the Socialist Party at yesterday's meeting talked about how we'd be integrated. You can see that if you ever have the opportunity to rule, you will agree — quite the contrary — on fundamental issues. That's how we are, they want integration, they don't want it... for now, without integration, 12 500 accidents — I follow statistics — 21,000 warnings from the gooseheads — this is a growing problem, we all know — 9,741 notices related to fires and 1,000 related to rescues and rescues. This is the 112 balance sheet. Of course, we have to keep improving. But that shooting the discretion against a service... you say, "No, it's to defend the workers." Well, there's a lot of workers who have different opinions. But I think to the prestige of service, a service that works well, you don't do any favors if you're here every day saying it's a real disaster. Because that's the number people call when they need it. And, therefore, look, I don't tell you to speak well, that I know it's very hard for you to speak well of things that the Government does, to be good or to be bad, but at least with certain very sensitive things make sure before you tell things that are not true. I'm done, president. As for the number of mayors, listen, there's no budgetary provision -- and I think yesterday I explained it well, but I do it again -- because what you do is identify the numbers that mayors and mayors always give and be attended to by the guard technician. This consists of personalized attention, which is what is done in all 112 services that have this type of attention. And as for the fact that you don't see the 1.7 million, I recommend one thing: talk to your representative at the Fegamp, at the negotiating committee, that you've been there -- or, if you haven't, of course, should be there -- and tell you that they're at the additional fund 1.7 million. If you don't have information transferred or transferred it and you don't want to understand it or you don't understand it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u217	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u218	...that's a problem that overcomes me. And I'm not proud of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u219	Thank you very much, Vice President. We're still on the agenda. Let's take the questions back to the Government. Question by da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and three other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, on the measures being put in place by the Government of Greece to prevent and eradicate the killings of women as a result of gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u220	To put the question you have the word Mr. Cal Ogong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u221	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Mr. Rueda. Machist violence is multiple and takes many forms, but its most vicious expression is murder. Now, data shows us how far we're going to eradicate this fence. The State Observatory against Gender Violence, in compliance with Article 30 of the State Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December, has just issued its 2015 report in September 2017, which shows the lack of resources and commitment to issues relating to equality in the governments of the People's Party. In the first chapter of this report we have a statistical yearbook on cases of gender-based violence murder, which begins by saying: "The information refers to cases of women killed by their partners or ex-partners." I wanted to bring this sentence because it very clearly expresses two of the eves that the People's Party has in dealing with issues that have to do with macho violence. The first is that they divide first-victims and second-victims, they serve only those victims who receive macho violence from their partner or ex-husband, leaving all the others out. And another is a question that seems very relevant to us -- and things have to be called by their name, and more so when we talk about it -- they're not dead women at the hands of their couples, they're murdered women. And the sooner they start calling things for their name, the better it will be for us to fight against macho violence. The 8 women killed in 2015 placed Galicia in that year as the autonomous community with the highest rate of feminicides at the Spanish state level in relation to its population number. According to data from the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, 8 women were killed in Galicia by masculine violence — 1 in the Coruña, 1 in Ourense and 6 in the province of Pontevedra. Besides, from April 2014 until June this year, our country has hosted 19 trials for murder, half of which are cases of male violence. I hope that no member or member of the People's Party will say again that speaking of a campaign of struggle on November 25 is somewhat exaggerated. Half the trial for murder in Galicia has to do with macho violence. Of course we need to talk about mourning on November 25th! [[Applause]] Our country is located as one of the autonomous communities with a smaller percentage of specialized female violence judges, with only two exclusive judges, 4.4 per cent. Following the IX Annual Report of the 2015 State Observatory on Violence against Women, 49 macho murders took place in Galicia between 2003 and 2015. It is necessary to point out that the province of Pontevedra is placed above the state average throughout the period 2003-2015, with 3.8, reaching a rate of 14 per one million in 2015. It is essential to ensure the protection of women by putting in place more measures budgetedly, since the figures show that, ten years after the adoption of Law 11/2007, of July 27, Galicia for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence, its effectiveness is far from complete.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u222	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u223	Many women continue to be in a state of deprotection — denunciations or not — before their aggressors. So we hope you can tell us, on the one hand, what conclusions the Secretariat of Equality has reached with regard to these figures. We understand that there will be studies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u224	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u225	...in respect of their gravity, and also to tell us what measures are being put in place to prevent and eradicate this situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u227	Mr. Cal, the first, of course, is that any death of a woman for macho violence is a murder, there is absolutely no doubt. I think that, like other things, should not be the subject of discussion. I am glad that we agree — I think it was very difficult to think otherwise — that it is essential to ensure the protection of women who are suffering or in a situation of macho violence — and, of course, their children and daughters — and that they are also indispensable, so that this guarantee is effective, many things, but one of the necessary without any doubt is that governments, through public budgets, take action. Only with that, unfortunately, will not solve everything. But this is also necessary and therefore we agree that this should be done. And that's why we have in the budgets that are now being discussed, and that will come into force in 2018, the highest budget in the history of autonomy to fight against male violence. And I also think that we agree, of course, that we can't conform while there's only one victim, and even while there are women at risk of being. And so we have to work, we have to offer them protection, we have to do everything we can to keep them from finding themselves in this situation, and of course we must do it in a coordinated manner. We agree on all that. In what I can't agree with, and I have to tell you too, is that, in order to support all these arguments -- so I understood it in the written question and I understand it now in your oral exposition -- you think that handling the figures to give a few higher amounts a few years than others justifies a level of effort, a level of awareness, greater or lesser. No, Mr. Cal, while there's only one victim or real possibility — and unfortunately, there's victims and there's also real chance that they're produced — I think the figures are always shocking. It doesn't matter to say anything: What conclusions does the Government draw, pulls the Government from the 2012 or 2015 figures? Listen! for the same as in 2016, that there were victims, and the same as in 2017 and the same as every year in which victims are produced or in which we do not do everything possible to prevent them from producing. So, using certain statistics to give them strength to arguments in the fight against macho violence, I think it's not the right thing to do. In the second part of my speech I'll try to tell you everything we're doing, but I just want to leave this initial reflection: while there's only one victim -- I suppose we'll agree, but, of course, it's not what you understand or that's not what I understand about your exposure and your question -- while there's only one victim, we can't go down the guard and it doesn't make any sense to say that years ago it's better or worse because there's more or less victims. Every year they're bad while there's only one victim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u228	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have, for the replica shift, the word of Mr. Cal Ogong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u229	Thank you, President. Well, I'm glad we agree to be called "murdered" and I hope in the next report that a People's Party government will not put "dead women" and put "murdered women." The data brings them in because they show a reality. If you are going to do an analysis to find out how to fight it, we understand that the situation in Pontevedra with respect not only to the rest of the province of Greece, but to the rest of the state, deserves a specific study of why this is happening in Pontevedra. We understand that the Secretariat of Equality should be working on this issue because it's a very alarming fact. You're talking about budgets. Obviously, there are a lot of budgets, a lot more than you're putting on. To combat macho violence, we need to focus on making this data very clear: two out of three women killed did not report, and the protocols that the Government is managing are completely, or essentially, focused on the complaint. Of course we have to report, but we have to take care of this reality, and we believe that it is not being dealt with there and that policies are not being made to women who do not report, that they are most of the murders. We understand that we have a very serious problem when we are not implementing comprehensive equality policies. Inequality is what nourishes, what feeds, macho violence. His government has cut, and much, the comprehensive policies for equality. It's true that you went up to the fighting against macho violence, but you cut those that are the preventatives, who attack at the root of the problem and prevent situations of macho violence from occurring. We understand they're not doing enough there. You're not developing the Spanish law of 2007, essentially about teaching, which is one of the main tools for working for equality. They're not even training teachers and teachers. You're not solving one of the fundamental problems women have in order to get out of situations of violence, which is economic independence. You're making a series of policies that leave the poor women out, that leave the women out with functional diversity, the women who have the most difficulties to get out. You're not paying attention to the Town Councils. Your state pact is just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u231	...1000 euros to each municipality—if you plan it, because we've seen this morning what your commitment is, your commitment goes on paper, in the word, but when you have to press the green button to dedicate budgets, you push the red button, that's your commitment to violence against machos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u232	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u233	So I repeat the question to you and, if possible, it spreads a little bit more about what are those issues that you are making in these issues that I just quoted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. He has the Government's reply, the vice president and chairlor, public administrations and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Cal Ogong, I insist, I really consider it very dangerous to handle figures to deal with risk situations. It's just that this is as much as saying that if in a year there are many victims, we have to be very worried, and if in a year there are fewer victims, we have to be less concerned. It's just that you have to be exactly as worried. It just doesn't make any sense to say that, if there are more victims in Pontevedra, there is more problem than there is in Lugo because there are fewer victims. Because, first, the problem is the same everywhere, it's a very high risk and a great danger. And secondly, if because of any unfortunate circumstance one year there were more victims in Lugo province than in Pontevedra province, what happens, that then all theories are removed and another kind of strategies and other approaches have to be made? I really think it's very dangerous to play with these figures and think that if we get better with respect to another autonomous community one year, the problem has another autonomous community and we don't have it. We all have exactly the same problem, and I say it because sometimes, when a victim is produced, I have answered in this Parliament, and that death is used to say that policies are not effective. Look, this isn't about numbers, honestly, it's about measures, that I agree with. But it's not about numbers and I would ask you not to fall into that mistake, which, of course, I consider, if so, a very big mistake. You tell me — and you recognize it because it is so — that we have grown a lot, and I understand that I was aware of — the figures so say — that is the year in which most public budget is dedicated to fighting against macho violence. But he says that, on the other hand, in equality not so much. Well, but here we're talking about that direct action, the most powerful action against masculine violence, are the budgets that are dedicated directly. Then equality policies of course are necessary, too, but then we'll have to recognize that in that sense we're on the right track. I'd have to ask why it wasn't made before with more budget. Earlier, following up on that set of figures that you do -- I'm talking about a few years ago, when the budgets were 1,500 million more, until the year 2009 -- didn't we have that problem and that's why we didn't have to invest so much? We had exactly the same... If you tell me no, then we'll never agree, because I don't think there was a minor problem, unfortunately, in the year 2009 than now. We still have a huge problem. So, this isn't about figures, Mr. Cal Ogang, it's about something else, it's about measurements, it's about what we're doing. Of course, increasing the amount of time the public aid is paid to women. And we are the only autonomous community today — and we are not the most budgeted — that continues to maintain those aids. Yes, it is going to continue to extend the network of information centres to the woman, to try to get more and more municipalities included; to try to make more and more stable professionals — because they are mostly women who work there, but professionals in general —; to also try to make more and more reconciliation policies, to try to give stability to teams of psychologists and social workers who are in the courts working carefully with the rest of the legal operators; to increase, and not to be conjunctural but structural, the teams of the Immelga. It's about all these things that they're slowly gaining little gains. But if we make it all depend on numbers and the year we're doing well -- for example, this year, that we're in November, and of course, let's hope that we stay in these numbers, because they're less than other years -- we don't think that we don't have to keep doing those efforts anymore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u236	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u237	...then don't count on the Galician Board for that kind of theory, because we think it's completely harmful. It's not to understand anything at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u238	Thank you very much, Vice President. Question by Mr Antón Sánchez García and two other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, about the exercise of the role of chief editor of the public radio news
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u239	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u240	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Rueda. Exactly a month ago, a head editor on the Public Radio in Wales wrote an article with the title "Desolation Carrots." When this man, a day after a mob demonstration through the streets of Compostela, legitimate demonstration of many people exercising his democratic right to ask for explanations and responsibilities about the management of fires, and also to go against what is considered by many people as predatory laws or predatory policies, this editor-in-chief, paying attention, as we consider, to many of the parts of what is a deontological code of journalistic profession and even against article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, as regards the right of expression, which we defend, he launches a series of harmful and intolerant views. So this man calls us "carroña". Carrots, for example, can be associated with hyenas, yes, and votres, to those who like rotten meat. And, of course, the article is true, because an adjective that they use very much is tedious. They also call us "infringed." We must be terror spirits. Of course, Cunqueiro would say, "What do ghosts say when they find themselves?: How can we exist and not exist at the same time?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I suppose they'd be very pleased if those opinions were thrown against you. There's a contempt for dignity. They call us "troglodytes", "primitives", "caverías", "little things". He's full of toxic phrases and he's telling us we're doing "the shop policy." It's very funny. Very funny. [[Murmurs.]] He also speaks of this man, with a very high level of journalistic qualification, of "diarrhea", in a way and with an absolutely eschatological style. And he uses ethically reprobable expressions: we are "professionals of banners and hate, which feeling so rooted all over the left!" Because it doesn't just talk about us... what a feeling so deeply rooted in people that, like you, they did in 2006... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u241	Quiet, please! Listen to who's in the use of the word, please. Listen to who's in the use of the word, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u242	We continue with the classification of very well-elected phrases, defamation, infamy, worthy of passing into history: "We don't care about the mountain, only social conflict." Offensive opinions, contempt for thousands of people, improbable portrayals, chronically self-destruction: "Cater of Chiquilicuatres"...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u243	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u244	Let me have a little more, because I was interrupted. [[Murmurs.]] "Chisgarabís," "buds," "goats"...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u245	Silence! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u246	..." hypertrophy egos." But this same person, in an exercise almost absolute transformation, makes a call to quiet reflection, and suddenly says, "Not everything is worth it. No, there are limits...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u247	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u248	...to the sacred right to freedom of expression in this orbit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u249	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u250	...where he doesn't take the insult." Finished with the question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u251	Thank you very much. It's already written. You've got another shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u252	I was interrupted and there were people who had another word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u253	Yes, but time has been compensated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u254	Same measuring stick, please, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u255	Yeah, sure, sure, I always try.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u256	Yeah, just the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u257	You have the second round of the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u258	The question is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u259	Thank you very much. [[Madam Cuña Bóveda utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. It's already written. [[Applause]] Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Cuña, I tell you in all sincerity: I would spare you all the time in the world or it will never come to you to try to explain the inexplicable. Look, I have to tell you that, when I saw the question yesterday in the gallery on the occasion of the appearance, I didn't want to believe it. I thought I didn't read it right. Then I read it and I was rather amazed. And now, listening to you, I understand everything pretty well, I understand everything pretty well. That's why I say it doesn't take you any longer if what you want me to understand. Look, I'm not going to defend Mr. Ojea here — which seems to me a good professional, all said by step — first, because it's not my role and, second, because he can only defend himself perfectly. I come to defend another much more important thing, which is freedom of expression, because you gave me the opportunity, the freedom of people, the freedom of people, the freedom of those people that they so much like to talk to you about other things. [[Applause]] Now we're going to talk about freedom of expression, which is a constitutional and sacred right, Mrs. Cuña... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u261	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u262	...and ladies and gentlemen of En Marea and Podemos. Look, it can be understandable that you become angry, angry and angry, hot, unable to accept criticism. That can be understandable. We see them every day on the occasion of parliamentary debates, because from here we also see a lot of things, even if you don't think so. So, in the end, it can be even understandable, seeing how you normally develop. But what is not understandable at all is that you want to lynching a communication professional, which is what you want to do. They've tried it on the Galician Radio and Television Board. They took them there and answered them — very well answered, in my opinion — firstly, that it was not a directive person and, secondly, that they had all the right of the world to express themselves freely — and in a private environment, by the way. And of course, since that lynching phase has not reached them enough, they try to bring him here now to try to lynch him in Parliament and then finish the Government of Galicia. But you realize what they're doing! [[Applause]] Look, these are practices, in my opinion, probably another century, or, if they don't have to be another century, other regimes that seem much better to you than us and that to the vast majority of people. These things are probably styled there, but here this kind of thing doesn't want them, frankly. Article 20 of the Spanish Constitution: "The right to express and disseminate freely the thoughts, ideas and opinions of each person, using any means of communication, is recognized and protected." This is the Constitution, which we agree with. You don't know if you do or don't. They promised to kiss her, but we know not at all. [[Strong murmurers.]] Look, his question reveals three very serious things: first, that do not bear criticism, it is very clear; second, that they pursue and bind those who criticize them because they cannot tolerate it; and third, and most serious, that they want in all this the collaboration of the Government. Look, in Marea and We can be tired of seeing how there are purges and how there are lynchings among their acolytes. We don't want it for the rest of the people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u263	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u264	...and don't count on this government for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u265	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs. Cuña Bóveda has the floor for the replica shift. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u266	All right. First, you don't know, but we're not on the CRTVG Board of Directors, but that's not the point. It's just the level of information. The Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights agree to indicate that no right is absolute, and that there are limits in their exercise. In particular, with regard to freedom of expression, the statements which are undoubtedly aggravating or offensive, which are not related to the ideas or opinions that manifest themselves, remain outside the protected scope of this right. You, who are law-abiding, see Act 1/2016, of January 18, of transparency and good governance: It is important to comply with principles, and more so when we speak of public environment, integrity and honesty, impartiality, objectivity and respect for the legal framework and citizenship. All these rights, or these principles, are violated. There is a request for a cessation by the Intercentres Committee. There is also a very clear explanation from the organizers of the demonstration saying that this is intolerable. All organizations and groups agree that this cannot be. Not because this gentleman has no right to his freedom of expression. It is that this gentleman is responsible and director of a public television, which is not his means of propaganda, which is a television of all of us. Do you really think this gentleman...? Or is it the same ideology as ABC as Galician Radio and Television? Is that the same ideology? [[Murmurs.]] Is that the same transmission belt?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u267	Quiet. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Paz, listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u268	I, of course, believe that this doesn't answer things from the past; it corresponds to a beginning, to a correspondence between the principle and the deontological codes... They read the deontological code of the Galician Journalists Association. We're asking that the laws be observed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u269	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u270	We're asking a public professional paid for all of us and we all have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u271	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u272	...the fulfilment of ethical principles and not contempt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u273	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u274	...systematic with the use of hurtful and outrageous terms and expressions. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u275	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. I ask all Members to listen to who is speaking. Then you have the next person's replica turn. If you want to present initiatives, I beg you to present them, but let us listen to who is speaking. And that goes for everyone, please. Please! The Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administrations and Justice have the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u276	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Cuña, you're right, it wasn't on the board of directors, it was on the Control Committee. That changes everything for you, doesn't it? It was on TV. They went for him at the Radio-Television Company and, as they weren't able, they come to the second part of the lynching here! That's what there is, they can't stand criticism when the critics are you. This is the reality. Because you could override the article and even if you think there are offensive expressions that border criminal law, go to the courts. But no, no, here we have to make a public lynching, try it. I warn the navigators, that no one will ever find fault with you. That's the reason! [[Laughter]] This is the main reason! [[Murmurs.]] And also asking for the collaboration — incredible! — of the Government, of the Unity of Galicia. [[Applause]] Do you expect us to be complicit in this? [[Applause]] But what's going on? [[Applause]] Do you really believe that this can have some kind of calm in a democratic system? [[Murmurs.]] Look, he speaks of Mr. Ojea expressing himself in an insolent and disrespectful tone against the leftist political forces and their representatives. That's the problem for you! How many times have we heard in these benches and out of these benches — but referring to the people we are on these benches or in the government — who qualify as "murderers", as "scumbags," as "scumbags"? That's all we've heard. [[Protests.]] But, of course, since they're not critical of single thought, then there's nothing to do... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u277	Quiet. [[Protests.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u278	They're good! That's from the last century. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u279	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u280	That's a totalitarian regime. They don't support criticism: they don't support the least or the highest criticism whenever it's against you. That's right, they can split up against everyone else and that has to be supported without any problem because you're always right. [[Murmurs.]] That's your scheme and that's what leads them to take initiatives like this, Mrs. Cuña. That's the big problem, and that's what you don't understand. Look, in the end it all fits. Mr. Pablo Iglesias said: "The media must necessarily have public control mechanisms." And if they're not public, they're parliamentarians, to lynch people. [[Murmurs.]] He said: "If we compromise the government, for them the councils like that of Tourism; to us who give us the televisions."to erase from these television sets everyone who is not in the sole thought. [[Murmurs.]] In the end, Mrs. Cuña, ladies and gentlemen of the tides of Podemos... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u281	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u282	...all fits. Look, you come here, to a democratic chamber... you come here today, to a democratic chamber, to reprobate and ask the government to collaborate in the lynching of a communication professional because you said something that you didn't like and that bothered them. That's what they're doing. They're coming to ask the government to tell whoever it is or who it can't be journalist, whether it's the government who gives it or not it's the journalist's office. That comes from the Frankish era and doesn't contain us. Noraboa! [[Murmurs.]] Congratulations on continuing these practices! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Cuña and ladies of the tide of Podemos, at least it's bad that we're in a democracy and less bad that you don't rule! Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u283	Thank you very much, Vice President. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Paula Prado del Río and seven other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the collaboration that the Galician Union is offering to local entities for the celebration of 25 November of the International Day against Gender Violence, in order to achieve greater effectiveness of resources in the areas of awareness-raising, prevention and assistance to victims
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u284	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Vice-President, on November 11, the General Secretariat of Equality presented the November 25 campaign, a awareness campaign that sends a message that no one can be against: "The biggest women are fighting against gender-based violence and, lowest, abusers." Yesterday in this rostrum, our socialist companion, Maria Pierres, was thrilled to recall and speak of the courage of women who fight against gender violence. Well, we all recognize that bravery and greatness, and that's why we have to be able to transfer that sensitivity to the Greeks and to the Greeks. And what better way is it that with campaigns and gestures of people we have the opportunity to talk to the media and that our message is moving into all citizenship? It happens, Mr Vice-President, that there was a political group — the tides of Podemos — that took 24 hours to criticise this campaign and criticize the German Government. An attitude, Mr. Vice-President, absolutely reprehensible, because the end of any campaign against gender-based violence is to end the violence of the masculine and socialize abusers. Campaigns can be more fortunate or less fortunate. A campaign can be more or less appealing to us. Some criticize a campaign that focuses the message on the greatness of women who fight against masculine violence, and say that it's cosciify women; but reducing it to a triangle with black background inspired by the philosophy of the Conas Ceibes association is to dignify it. I refuse, ladies and gentlemen, that the women who see us, while being abused and abused, believe that their representatives in this chamber are enjoined by one sign or another. [[Murmurs.]] They're not up to the suffering of those who still suffer, nor the memory of those who, unfortunately, are no longer among us. [[Applause]] That is why, Vice-President, the really important policy is that every political formation, where it has government responsibilities, is in place to put an end to the violence of the masculine. And the Union's commitment is clear in the budgets. You used to say this before: to fight against gender-based violence the Union has increased its budget by 4.28% this year, exceeding the historical peak of this program since the budget was reached. And the focus was on improving victim care: the increase in periodic aid was reinforced by 61.1%; the resources were doubled for psychological care, 103.27%; the budget for the dissemination of the Protocol for Coordination and Institutional Cooperation of the Galego Observatory on Gender Violence was set up; the Work Insertion Program was re-edited; and support for the CIM network and foster homes was maintained. We are also aware, Mr Vice-President, of the collaboration of the Union with the councils, and therefore we ask you, what is the collaboration that the Union is offering to local entities, towards the next 25 November, in order to gain greater effectiveness of resources, both from awareness and prevention, and from assistance to victims of gender violence? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u286	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The vice president and councillor, the public administrations and the judiciary have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u287	Well, Mrs. Prado, I suppose the Block is already clear what we're doing for gender-based violence and, then, you don't have to listen to it. Anyway, I have to say that I am not going to give you anything new about what we've been talking about, for a long time, in connection with the efforts of the Galician Union and, above all, with regard to the call for us to try to put out the political struggles, at least in fundamental things. After that, we already know that there are nuances and different visions; but I think that fundamental things... again seems to be that some were not able, and I think that the best example is the campaign driven by the Galician Union — then I have a question about this particular too — with all intents and, of course, subject to all opinions — just like all other campaigns — but without any intention of making a political struggle. So we're going to continue with her through the collaboration we have with Fegamp. It was renewed and extended last week the agreement we have with them to fight against gender-based violence. There are already around 180 municipalities, and these 180 municipalities will provide all the material so that this campaign can have as much dissemination as possible. It's just that it's not a campaign or any brand that wants to impose anyone; at least we don't understand it that way. The problem is that those who understand it that way are the ones who cause all kinds of fights. What we want is awareness, so important and what we're always talking about, how important awareness is. The alarming fact that this survey we've just met, where more than a quarter of the boys think that gender violence is a normal thing to live with, that it's alien to them and they have nothing to do to fight it, and therefore it shouldn't be a matter that concerns them very much. I think that's heartbreaking. I think there are a lot of tools to try to end all this, but, of course, awareness through campaigns is fundamental. So we're going to try to extend it as much as possible through that tool — which I think is useful and necessary — which is collaboration with the municipalities through tables against gender violence and through information centres to women; and try to get the values and messages that we want to transmit through all means. We have just had an act with something that moves so many passions — and also good passions — like the world of football, something also needed so much progress on equality, as is all that has to do with sport in general and especially with football. And so we're going to keep trying to do these impact actions, and through these impact actions, we're going to get to how many more sectors of society are better. That's what this campaign is for, that's what we're doing with the municipalities and that's what we're trying to do and discuss or, at least, not waste the time arguing politically, or at least lose it as little as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u288	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs. Prado has the floor for the turn of the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Vice-President, it is certainly true that the Union cooperates with the councils. But in the municipalities where PP doesn't rule, what do the tides of Podemos do? Well, they spend it all on campaigns and nothing on caring for the victims. Look, Santiago is flooded these days with banners, vinyls, t-shirts, mandrels, umbrellas, plates, stickers. The concierge of Equality made a tour in July for all Members to accompany the entrepreneur who did that campaign, Mrs. Uqui Permui and Lucía Canoura, so that the Deputies would hire that company and take that campaign to all the municipalities of Galicia. Even they have just gone to Brussels — if you don't know very well what — and you don't know very well who paid the trip and what that trip is going to do. [[Murmurs.]] And it was also the entrepreneurs, Mrs. Uqui Permui and Mrs. Lucia Canoura: those who are taking from the Town Hall of Santiago split or not fractionated contracts that Mr. Martiño Noriega pays. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the reality of campaigns. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, look, what do they do for the victims? Nothing, Mr. Vice President, because they don't get comfort with signs or t-shirts. Because the Women's Information Center in the Town Hall of Santiago is completely dismantled: professionals have no director, psychologist and lawyer are precarious. And with that, ladies and gentlemen, in the square of the Opratoiro with all the signs, the victims don't attend. And you tell me that the Board — because I saw it in the memory of the Women's Information Centre that I asked for through article 9 — gave the Women's Information Centre EUR 45,000 this year. But in addition to the General Secretariat of Equality, he gave a grant for CIM equipment. Where did the Town Hall of Santiago spend the CIM equipment? In an office for the concierge of Equality! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u290	Quiet, please. [[Interruptions.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence, and listen to who is in the use of the word. Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u291	We're used to it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, who used to sit on that chair...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u292	Excuse me, Mrs. Prado, excuse me. Please listen to who is in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u293	They don't like it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u294	Don't worry, the one who's addressing is the advisor, who's going to answer. So, please listen to who's in the use of the word so you don't have to call anyone's order. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much. Continue, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u295	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm counterminding the way of making politics in equality: some buy orders for the concierge and others pay attention to the victims and give money to the municipalities to invest them in victims, not in billboards or offices, as did in their day to Mrs. Yolanda Díaz when she entered the concierge in Ferrol, who the first one she did was also the dispatch. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u296	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u297	We're no longer surprised at anything they do, gentlemen. And the Block has left because the Block is supporting the tides of Podemos in the Town Hall of Santiago. He's supporting all this policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u298	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u299	...—better said, all this depoliticism—that doesn't care for the victims. So, for them, first they...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u300	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u301	... marketing and advertising, and then victims. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u302	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administrations and Justice have the floor for the replication. Thank you very much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, you're not in the debate, so please... please... please... I formally ask you not to interrupt or I'll have to call the order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have this question, the last intervention and another question to finish the full. I think it was pretty good all the time to have you now call anyone's order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u303	Thank you, Mr. President. In the end, when criticisms are not accepted, critics of no one or anything are said to be accepted, and that's impossible. Therefore, regarding what we have just heard here: I speak for everyone and Mrs. Prado was in use of the word, but I think she was telling us all. Look, if that's the case, I'd say it's good for them, right, but it's good for them doesn't mean it's good for others. Probably, if this money in campaigns... I'm talking about campaigns because it's the only thing we've been able to talk about during these days... the opposition groups, especially some, when we had to be talking about other things. For example, if everyone had devoted their budgets — and I hope that no administration would be able to say that this is a competition for the Galician Union and that, therefore, they do not have to be involved — if we all could — and it would not be because the Union did not ask for it — to bring together the budgets for regular aid, we would probably come to more women and we would get more. Now, each one decides how he wants to spend his money. Local autonomy ultimately gives for a lot of good things and also gives for a lot of bad things. And if in the end the Town Hall of Santiago decided to spend it on furniture, spend it on trips, and not spend it as it is spending it on the board of Galicia, to have the budget against the masculine violence—as it was recognized here and I appreciate it—the highest in the history of autonomy, for there they! The bad thing is that they may be very happy, but the women who really need it are not so happy. So sometimes it's easy to understand certain things that happen and it's very difficult to understand certain criticisms that we always have to receive. We accept them, but in front of them I think they often can't say that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u304	Thank you very much, Vice President. We moved on to the last question. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the deadline for the withdrawal of the advertising campaign entitled The largest of Galicia shall not be mistreated
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u305	To put the question, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u306	Thank you. Before we begin, we obviously have to answer to this barbarity. The only ones who make a partisan use, crawler, and who also lie without any kind of shame, are you. And I'm not going to spend more than ten seconds with her, we just have to say what luck Compostela has!, what luck we have the women we live in Compostela... [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u307	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u308	...to have a conch like Marta Lois! How lucky we are, that opens a women's home and makes feminist policies because he's actually a feminist. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not like you, who have equality as a stick, but, at the time of truth, they don't understand anything about what the perspective of gender means. [[Applause]] That's why today we've come to ask you about how long it will take to withdraw this evil campaign by November 25th. Without any intention to make a partisan use, but understanding that this campaign is malicious and that the reasons why they should withdraw it are very obvious. As I say, the obvious thing is that they don't understand what gender perspectives and feminist policies mean. This campaign does not sensitize against male violence and reinforces gender roles, so we are against this campaign. Because every campaign I understand they've done themselves willingly, but this one doesn't help us women at all. And even if they don't understand it, because, as I say, they wouldn't be ashamed to defend a campaign like this, perhaps they could do a minimum of self-criticism and listen to all the feminist groups and all the women who have explained since Sunday why this campaign is not positive. I think it's very obvious and also quite absurd to have to explain why this campaign cosifices us. The cartel equips us with elements of our heritage, and we have to remind you that we're not things. As early as March 8th, there was a campaign that talked about the fact that there are a lot of big things in Galicia, and the biggest, women. No, we're not things, we're people. And we don't have to be great or brave, Mrs. Prado, what we have to be free. You said you should admire the brave women who fought against macho violence. Well, I don't think women have to be brave, women have to be free, and we have to be subject to decision-making. [[Applause]] So what we have to have is rights and freedoms and not any paternalist government that talks about us in third person, because we have the ability to speak for ourselves. When it's said, they don't treat each other because they're big, they're co-hesitating, and it's a very obvious matter. Then do a minimum of self-criticism. They should have taken advantage of this campaign, the money they spend on this campaign, to raise awareness about the set of macho violence, about the resources we need to end with gender roles and stereotypes, because, as I said, this campaign only strengthens them, as always. Besides, they don't go along with this campaign with a single measure to fight against macho violence. On the one hand, neither visibility nor any kind of measurement. We think they're failing not only in this campaign -- which obviously lacks the gender perspective -- but also because it's the general dynamics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u309	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u310	I'm going to finish. The question is very clear: why do they not want to withdraw this campaign? And if, once and for all, they'll hear or continue to insist on their mistake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u311	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the answer, you have the floor of the Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administration and Justice, Mr Rueda Valenzuela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Quinteiro, look, I could tell you that advertising experts there are many in many places, we all have advertising experts who know much more about the subject than me and I'm sure that much more than you. The difference is that, of course!, as you are in possession of absolute truth, you are also in possession of absolute advertising truth. [[Murmurs.]] So, just the publicity of your experts, just the publicity you like, is what advertising you have to serve. In the end, we have to give Mrs Prado a reason, that you want a campaign to leave them alone and that's where it's all settled, you don't have to worry about anything else. Apart from that, travel to tell the campaign to everyone. If it takes time, so do the women she's going to, otherwise nothing happens. [[Murmurs.]] And that's it! Everything's done! That's all they do. Look, those who disqualify the actions of others... you say, no, she's well-intentioned but she's useless. For that direct disqualification, as possessor of absolute truth, in the end, what he does is to disallow it to you — I honestly believe — even to defend the things you are doing. Because he says, I don't have to explain why I don't like the campaign! I don't like it and it's done, take it off! And I call on Parliament here to tell you that you have to withdraw the campaign and I don't have to explain it to you, ask around! Well, if I ask around, there are a lot of people who think that this campaign is at all causing or making sense what you've got tired of saying: that it cosits women, who are paternalists, who are pursuing the opposite effect, who have no effect... Look, there are a lot of people, I suppose as respectable to you as it turns out to me those who have opinions and have already publicly manifested it in our campaign. So in the end, why don't we try to row all in the same direction? Why don't we think all the campaigns are to try to raise awareness and get that sad data not to be given to what I was referring to earlier, in the previous answer, that a quarter -- or more -- of boys and girls think that gender violence is a problem that is not there and doesn't have to worry about them? Why don't we lose, or rather why we're wasting time, why are you wasting time, thinking that disqualifying a campaign because you don't like it, because it's not your absolute truth, that's going to give them some kind of political income and the least effect you're producing to fight the real problem, which is gender violence? Why don't you understand this? As long as you don't understand this, you won't understand anything at all, and you won't understand that we're all here to row in the same direction, that people don't want to see us fighting in such important things as this, that you don't miss the opportunity to do it. I could be here criticizing your campaign, of course! I also have my opinion. I could be criticizing the United Left campaign in Zamora, which I also think is even worse, if I may. But I won't. All campaigns are worth me looking for the same goal, and the same goal is to fight and row together. Let's see if you understand and we'll start fixing things. In the meantime, we'll either go on, or they'll go on better, or we'll all go on because of them, wasting our time. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u313	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u314	They're very eager to row together, so they campaign unilaterally. You're very picky about the campaign in black because it's a campaign that's really involved and done from below, and it's not a partisan at all because there are also municipalities of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] They don't know, but there are municipalities of the People's Party that have joined that campaign, as much as they've tried to boycott it. And we don't talk about advertising. Obviously, I have no idea of advertising, but I do have any idea of gender perspective, and I do have any idea what feminism is, and I do have any idea what this campaign means. And I don't say it as an advertising expert, it's not a matter of advertising, whether I like the cartel more or if I like it less. It's a question that the poster reproduces gender roles, it's paternalist and it cositates women, and I've explained why. It was a way of speaking, but he shouldn't listen very well. This motto, for example, is more subtle, but on March 8 directly said, "There are many great things. The biggest is women." In the same sentence. I think it's a fairly simple question of understanding: There are big things. The biggest, the women. Things, women. No, we're not things. Tell me why that slogan doesn't cosify us, and explain to me why they don't want to make a minimum of self-criticism and say, "Well, we're wrong." This campaign has come and perhaps we haven't checked enough. They actually have the gender perspective set. That's the fundamental problem, they know they have this tax. And they're not feminists, so they have intolerable statements from some people, as you've already commented here. And we're not the biggest, we're the most oppressed. That's what we need to see: that all women suffer from macho violence at all times in our lives and in all spaces. And that's not dramatizing, it's not mourning, it's visualizing the reality that unfortunately we have to live every day and every space. Also within this Parliament. Sometimes we should reflect on the paternalist attitudes — if, many times — that some Members of the People's Party also have. And no, we're not heritage. I think the explanations why the campaign must be withdrawn are clear. No party target. In fact, if they remove it... they've already removed the one from "Give Me Galicia," because they do the same. Say, we're wrong, this campaign is not well done. Well, all the more, we're going to dedicate this money to him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u315	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u316	But to remain committed that all the campaigns of itself, because they say that the aim they pursue is against masculine violence, they're going to be fine, it seems a simplistic and rather ridiculous argument. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u317	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. The Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administrations and Justice have the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Briefly, Mrs. Quinteiro, if you notice. Our campaign is a campaign from below; our campaign is a very good one; our campaign is a campaign that even PPs support it. And so... well, then you have nothing to do with it. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] He's as sincere as everything he said until now here, then. [[Laughter]] Look, then what do you mean? That those who have joined our campaign—there are many—are they all from the PP, so they're all wrong because they have no idea and they have no right or right to think? That's the construction you make of a subject... If you had really listened, you'd realize that in the end it's the message that translucent: the smart ones are in our campaign, the sensitive ones are in our campaign, and those who have no idea get involved in other people's campaigns, which are not done from below, are made to do harm and are done not to hit. Do you realize that such sovereignty in such sensitive matters does not lead to anything at all? [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I told you before I don't know what they're looking for... I don't know what they think they can look for. [[Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo speaks words that are not perceived.]] I have it so clear that I should continue to talk about it — I have to say it sincerely — is to waste time on a subject where we shouldn't be wasting our time for anything. So much more than I say, it's all said. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-22-DSPG050.u319	Thank you very much, Vice President. At the end of the day, we got the session up.
