ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u1	Good morning. Let us resume the session with the sixth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for oral answer by the President of the Council of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the availability by the German Government of some plan to curb the socio-economic deterioration of rural
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u2	Whenever you want, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u3	Good morning. From BNG we ask a simple question: do you have any serious plans for the rural environment? This is an important question. We are in the midst of a serious demographic crisis, we have a problem of ageing the population, of depopulation of very important areas of our territory, a situation that we could almost qualify as genocide, and in order to reverse this trend we need a plan for the future and that living in rural areas does not become a second-rate citizen because of the lack of public services. I believe that the demographic crisis, the rural problem, will not solve it by its effective advertising and propaganda department. Last year we were promised that this would be the country's legislation, the same promise that I had already made four years before, but the grave thing is that reality is not going in that good direction where you speak to us. Since you are president, Galicia has led the fall of population in the rural environment of the entire state. Half of the jobs lost in rural areas throughout the Spanish state were jobs that were destroyed in Galicia. And in the face of this situation, you, with triumphalism and given to that career of thinking that propaganda solves our country's problems. Now we're told there's zero taxes. I don't know if that's Rajoy's cataclysm, which makes an apendre or a chicken in the countryside almost collapsing as if they were a cottage on the beach. They've been telling us for years that there's been very little money, but it's true that you had to end up returning 56 million euros to the European Union because it was unable to invest them in rural areas. And the last hit is this rural population fixation plan, which knows it's a remake of Galician rural development plan, which had already called for us; a plan, Mr. Feijóo, which had EUR 300 million less, in part, and essentially, because of Mr. Rajoy's commitment to this country. The same commitment that we have just seen in the budgets that you presented yesterday in the state, some budgets that I suggest that we in this House resubmit ourselves as the "cut-off" budgets, and that they constitute a real aggravating to our country; 442 million euros less investment, which are a scrapping in every rule in the face of the Greeks and the Greeks. The worst thing you've ever given to do is slap him on the visit of Vice President of Rajoy, a visit that we can consider today as a genuine coat of hair to all the Greeks and Greeks. You came here to make blatant propaganda, twenty-four hours before you put us in front of the table the cutout of the century. I imagine you won't want us to congratulate you because the Greeks and the Greeks have 442 million euros less investments, which, for one thing, happens when Mr Montoro tells us that we're going to have a collection almost would tell us that historical; that is, we're going to pay more taxes but we're going to have less state investments. Mr. Feijóo, you have a weight...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u5	...impressive in Madrid. And I don't know what Members and Members will think. I owe myself to each other in pen or pen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u7	In any case, my question, Mr. Feijóo, is whether you're going to do something or, like in the case of rural, just propaganda...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u8	That's it, we understand the question; the question is understood. Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u9	...and at most this latest version and that this spokesman is responsible for all the evils of humanity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón, your question is understood. Thank you. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, from rural you pass to AVE, from AVE passes to Mrs Soraya's visit and from there passes to the weight of feathers or feathers. As always, BNG uses rural as a crutch to talk about what matters to him. What matters to us is rural and, as a result, I am going to talk about what matters to us, rural. In any case, Your Honor, on weight feathers or feathers in Madrid, that BNG knows very much. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, look, one year ago the extinct AGE asked a question similar to yours and there she answered, a year ago, that we cannot really be close to the evolution of the societies most developed around us, which is Europe. In all the countries of Europe, the weight of the primary sector is falling in recent decades and in Galicia, indeed, we are experiencing a transformation process, just like our partners in the European Union. There's a very atomized, poorly modernized agricultural sector with a high degree of aging. Your Honor, what we're moving to is a more sustainable, more reinvigorated and more productive agricultural sector. Indeed, one of the problems that concerns me as President is the depopulation of rural areas. 90% of the area is rural, but only 40% live, and yet the remaining 10% live 60% of the area. And what I'm worried about is that 63% of landowners are over 55 years old. Well, Your Honor, this is what worries me and what I'm going to work on: the best perspectives of rural life. Yes, Your Honor, today there are better rural perspectives than when I took possession in 2009. Why? First, because we managed to maintain the CAP funds: €2,380 million in rural areas until 2020. Secondly, because we have passed laws in this Parliament which have never been adopted; for example, the first Law on the Mountains of the Autonomous Community or the Law on the improvement of the agricultural structure. For example, Your Honor, that you laugh, but Galicia is the only territory in Spain where zero taxes are paid for transmitting, buying, permuting or selling farms. I know, Your Honor, that IBI is now coming up, too bad the mayors of the BNG don't let him down! Look, Your Honor, about support for the modernization and incorporation of young people, they're currently incorporating younger people more than ever, younger people than ever; about the quality of life in rural areas, for we have infrastructure in rural areas more than ever; and in relation, Your Honor, with a good X-ray, that you should know but as you don't care about rural people and I will tell you. Productions and prices in wine. Your Honor, we have never produced as much wine as we do now. Over the past six years, we've been producing 9% more wine and we're exporting 65% more wine. In the dairy sector, in the last five years we have increased milk production in Galicia by 15% more and production per farm increased by 213% more in the last ten years. Your Honor, in ecological agriculture, your production is twice as much as when we arrive at the Government. In wood, in 2015 we increased the production of wood by 11%. Your Honor, I know this doesn't matter to you, but, if you were interested, the weight of the agricultural sector in GDP grew by 2.6% in 2016. Can you tell me a year from the BNG government where this happened? And unemployment fell by 12% in the rural sector in 2016 — EPA...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u13	...active population survey. Therefore, Your Honor, of course we have proposals for rural areas. You actually know one of the rural population's fixation plans. Why didn't the Bipartite make a plan like we just introduced? Your Honor, today rural people have more future than when I arrived at the Government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u15	Mr Feijóo, we lead the fall of population in rural areas throughout the Spanish state, half of the jobs lost in rural areas throughout the state went to Galicia and you come to this Parliament telling us that we are better. Better than who? What is your perspective for the future? Mr. Núñez Feijóo, look, we have proposals to make to him, and rural needs serious plans and not propaganda. We really want there to be a bet for closing productive cycles; you've never supported a group of Greek milk. We want to change forest policy. We want an extraordinary plan to be able to curb the depopulation of rural areas and improve public services and no longer remakes of the same propaganda that you've been repeating over the past few years. But I am surprised that you, who are a great statesman, are not able to understand that state investments have a direct effect on rural areas and the means we are going to have to deal with the depopulation and the serious problems our country has. You don't think rural Galicia deserves rail services? You don't mind if the state budgets don't make a bet on the modernization of the railway in Lugo and Ourense? Or do you think citizens living in rural areas have no right to such services? Aren't you going to do absolutely nothing and shut up before the biggest cut in state investments in this century's history with our country? Do you think this is really a triumph? We, Mr. Feijóo, believe we have a collective responsibility as a country. We have a responsibility and we have to tell Mr Rajoy that we do not accept his cut. I propose, Mr Feijóo, that we make an institutional statement in which we tell Mr Rajoy, loud and clear, that we do not accept budgets which clearly discriminate against Galicia and which do not meet our needs, because they go far beyond the end of the AVE by 2020 or 2021.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u17	Let's do it, Mr. Feijó. He dares to stand on the sidelines of the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. And we can, if you like, get them better understood in Madrid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u19	...for once, emulate Mr. Montoro. Yesterday, when Mr. Montoro presented the state budgets, he was asked whether he would allow the spending of the autonomous communities to be increased, and Mr. Montoro said, "no"; and for it to be clearer, he also said in German: "no." I propose, Mr. Feijóo, that we say to Mr. Rajoy "no" and, to make it clearer, we can also say to him in German: "neither", that Galicia does not accept any budgets that are aggravating with this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u20	Thank you. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u21	Look, Your Honor, the lack of respect that you have just committed to the Italian countryside is in the Journal of Sessions. Look, I suppose you'll leave some protagonists to the spokesman of the Socialist Party, who probably wants to talk about budgets given the statement of the question, but you talk about rural and you don't care about it, you talk about budgets, and now you want to make a statement to Mr. Rajoy. I understand, Your Honor: this is the first time BNG doesn't have a single deputy in the General Courts, it doesn't surprise me that you want to make a statement from here. No wonder, Your Honor. [[Applause]] But don't worry, Your Honor, that Mr. Rajoy, if someone from the BNG asks you about the investments, I'd just have to answer one thing: when the BNG was in Madrid, the fundamental goal of the BNG was to get 8% of the investment to Galicia and now, that we have 11% of the total investment to Galicia, it seems like a cut. Cut, ladies and gentlemen, that's what you proposed with the Socialist Government in Madrid when they ruled in command. Look, Mrs. Pontón, let's go back to the countryside, a little bit of respect for the countryside. I understand that you're not interested in saying that during the Bipartite we were losing more farms than ever; 1,770 farms a year, during the four years of the Nationalist Government in rural areas. I suppose you don't want rural people to know that, for example, the first year of the RDP, when you managed these European funds, only 10% were executed; only in the first year of this government did we run 38%. I suppose, Your Honor, that when you talk about forest policy, you don't mean the people who went through the fires when the Bipartite ruled; I suppose you're not interested, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u23	In four years the BNG burned 30.00 hectares more than in eight years of the Galician People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u24	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u25	I understand, Your Honor, that you have little interest in forestry policy. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, tell us we didn't do anything in the milk. Your Honor, Galicia's first cooperative just merged with us into the government. When you were there, zero mergers. And now the largest dairy cooperative in Galician history, Clun, has more milk than the Asturian Central Asturian. You should value it, I say. Do you know how many applications for agri-food investments are currently available in the autonomous community, Igape and the Rural Environment Council? More than ever. Do you know how many boys joined the rural sector? More than in the last ten years. Do you know, Your Honor, when he laughs at taxes, that for the first time there are 8,000 Greeks who are dedicated to rural people who paid zero euros for transmitting their property? What I propose is a pact with the IBI, Your Honor. Why didn't we agree, since the IBI is a municipal collection and since now the catastrophe marks more goods, that no German pays more for the IBI than it once paid? What do you think of the proposal? Isn't that a smart proposal, Your Honor? [[Applause]] Shouldn't you support her? And why don't you back her up, Your Honor? [[Applause]] Why don't you really support that the Greeks don't pay for the IBI any more than they paid before? Here, in Junta, the Greek rural workers do not pay taxes; however, in the municipalities where the BNG governs directly, or indirectly with the Socialist Party, in all, the IBI has increased. Is that so, is it Rajoy and Mr. Montoro's fault? Look, Mrs. Pontón, we are not fools to you, nor are we born in the countryside. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the guarantee by the Government of Galicia of the use of all the resources it has to address the problems of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u27	Mr. Leicega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u28	Good morning. In the budgetary debate, the Socialist Group made it clear that the Galician Union would no longer exhaust the deficit limit that was allocated to each of the autonomous communities. The difference between the forecast and the permit was one tenth, which was about 60 million euros in income for the autonomous community and therefore also in spending capacity. The president of the board told us at the last plenary that Galicia was resolutely using the Financial Facility Fund because he had a kind of zero interest. Therefore, additional indebtedness using this fund would mean no cost to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. And it keeps repeating that we are in a financial situation, in terms of comparative, extremely favourable terms, with which we have a margin. In short, we have legal capacity to be indebted, it won't cost us anything, and we haven't compromised financial stability in the medium and long term. So why don't you do it? That's the big question. There was no answer in the budget debate. We let three months pass, it's been over three, and by the fourth month of the year we see that the passivity on this subject continues. There is no proposal to amend the Budget Law registered in this House for its processing. When we realize it, it's over half of the exercise and we don't have the capacity to use this additional count, which is 60 million euros. Which indicates, in our opinion, either a diagnostic error or a project deficit. You see, in the 2017 Report on the social status of the nation, which you probably know, the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services concludes that we have already surpassed social emergency in Spain to install ourselves in precariousness and lack of opportunity. For many families the present remains a nightmare, despite the incipient economic recovery; and for many young people the future is a chimera. And this applies to Galicia, too. It's not just the functioning of the economic system, it's also the social policies practiced. Since public policies we're not giving, they're not giving, the right answers. In the same report, the DEC index — rights, economics and coverage — is collected on the development of social services. For an average Spanish of 4.5, Galicia is in 2.6, fourth position in the queue of autonomous communities and below the average in the three subscripts. This is the map, Mr Feijóo, and, as you see, Galicia in red in an absolutely regrettable situation in comparative terms in this matter. Look at this map and tell us you're using all the resources to strengthen social policies. They're qualifying with a very poor person for their social policies. And that's because Risga doesn't cover all those in need, because in the Dependency Act there's a too broad waiting list and because in other social policies they also leave much to wish for. And yet you refuse to use 60 million euros at zero cost. Mr Feijóo, do you consider that you are using all the resources available to alleviate the serious problems of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u29	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, I'm very interested in this question. Let me give you my valuation. Look, you ask me if we use all the resources available to tackle Galician problems. And you know, yes, because we spent all the budget and we made 0.54% of the public deficit. So we spent everything we had and owed ourselves to more than half a public deficit point. Therefore, Your Honor, of course we are spending all the budget. And in fact, you know that the year 2016 execution is 109%. In other words, the entire budget of the Autonomous Community has been implemented. We run EUR 8,806 million. You know, Your Honor, that we've reinforced social spending: 70 million more for health care, 38 more for dependency, 30 more for employment, 5 more for school transportation. And you also know that we have a controlled public debt. That's why I'm surprised when he says we could spend 60 million euros more at no cost. No, Your Honor, if we spend 60 million more, the Greeks owe 60 million more. So, look at the difference... If we spend 60 million euros more because we include more public deficits, the Greeks owe us 60 million euros more public debt. [[Murmurs.]] But look, Your Honor, look at the difference of responsibility in the Government. The year 2016 was an election year. Can we spend 60 million more? Yes. Did we? No, no, no, no. And do you think that in electoral times governments — especially socialists — not only spend what they have but leave the next government indebted to the following legislation? The test is what happened in Spain. And we thought, Your Honor, that the Greeks would vote for us if we left a healthy public account, and the Greeks understood our message, Mr. Leicega. That's why Galicia is an autonomous community that has a public debt that is not smaller, 18.7% of GDP, but it's six points smaller than the average of the rest of the autonomous communities. You're not the first time you tell me we have a high public debt. Oh, no? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you think it's low? All right, Mr. Leicega, I hope you will contact the rest of the opposition so that you will agree that Galicia's public debt must be increased. [[Murmurs.]] But look, Your Honor, you know, because you're an economist, that to tell a president of a government who increases public debt to increase current spending and not investment is something I don't know if the Socialist Party has changed its mind, but theoretically Social Democracy wouldn't go there. Look, I'm going to give you the dependency data, because I'm obviously worried. Do you know that this year we are on top of the state's attention ratio for the first time? In Galicia, 73.5 % of care; and in the State, 71.8%. Do you know, Your Honor, that we are the second autonomous community in the valuation of dependents? 97.5% have an rating. Do you know, Your Honor, that we are the fourth autonomous community that has increased net beneficiaries the most in 2015? And you know, Your Honor, that the rate of people waiting in Galicia is under the middle of the state? I'll give you a date, Your Honor. When we arrived at the Government in 2009 and you ruled, 14,000 dependents were paid per month in Galicia. We're paying over 48,000 right now. Therefore, Your Honor, of course, we have increased the expenditure, but in addition, we have increased it by fulfilling the public deficit, being the autonomous community more indebted. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u32	And by the way, Mr. Leicega, a fact you didn't remind me: for a long time they told us that our economy, as a result of controlling the deficit, would not grow. And now it turns out it's grown more than Spain's economy. Mr. Leicega, don't worry, we're going to have more money this year, we're going to bring a bill to raise the ceiling. I'm counting on something with you, which the number of dependents attended in Galicia in 2017 is 60,000, going from 48,000 to 60,000. That's the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Leicega's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u34	Mr President, I can't answer all the things you're suggesting that they don't have to do with the question, but in any case let me tell you that in the employment programs last year — official data from the Board — the level of execution at some of them was thirty percent, thirty percent, and so many percent! [[Applause]] And, you see, the public debt in Galicia is clear that it's not a comparative problem. The thing is, why? And that's the bottom line. When we commit ourselves, what are the results we achieve? And you know perfectly well that Galicia's growth in terms of GDP, but above all in terms of employment and employment — which is what matters to us —, since you are President, is much lower than the Spanish average. And that's the valid benchmark. So don't come here to tell us milongas, which are not the property of a president of Galician Union. But, look, I want to make a proposal. And the proposal is clear, the proposal is that we have already introduced — we do not have to wait until the state budgets are completed — a bill to amend the expenditure ceiling and modify the budget that allows us to use the additional 60 million to which we have the right, which have no interest cost. They don't have any interest costs -- or you're telling us what the conditions of the Financial Facility Fund are -- and would otherwise allow us to address our dependents and those people who need attention, for example, through the Risk. Risk reaches 15,000 people, but there's 100,000 severe material deprivation in Galicia. Risga has 400 euros a month; in Basque Country, 665. We increased the risk allocation by 30 million, which would allow us to care for 5,000 more beneficiaries and increase their count by 15 percent. Let's do something like the dependency. Look, you can tell us what you want, but your CEO recently told us that there were 17,000 dependents of attention, 17,000. The waiting list is 17,000. Of course, there is a progressive increase in the number of dependents. It was a progressive implementation law, and still recently entered the last group. So the number of caregivers has to increase, because otherwise we wouldn't be complying with the law. The point is how fast we're doing it. And we're doing it wrong, we're doing it below what would be possible. With 30 million extras for the dependency, we would have the ability to delete the waiting list this year 2017. That's what I'm proposing to you, we use 60 million that are available for this, and we substantially improve social policy, going from the very poor that managers and directors give at least to the level of approval. And then we'll get higher quotas. Here's the thing. Look, here's a letter from a father of an autistic boy who complains that, as a result of a review of his office, they reduce the availability of his particular PIA to half for budgetary reasons. That's what can't be when we have available resources that have a zero cost for citizens of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u35	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u36	Thank you very much. Tell me, Mr. Leicega, to which we dedicate the public debt. Two things: investment and social expenditure. What do we dedicate to the public debt? Do you know that Galicia invests twice as much as they invest in the rest of the autonomous communities under its own budget? That data is supposed to have: in Galicia, 12%; and in the middle of autonomous communities, 6.4%. Do you know, for example, that the largest investment effort per resident with autonomous budgets is in Galicia, with 382 euros per investment inhabitant, and that the average is 198? I mean, almost 100 euros more per inhabitant and year. So, first question, Your Honor, on investments. Second question, in social services, of course. Look, the home help service increased six times as much as it did in 2009. The teleassisted service, the double, the double in 2009. The bookstores, 97% more than in 2009. Squares held with public funds, 35% more than in 2009. And if you want, we'll talk about squares. Day centers — Mr. Leicega, you must be interested in this data — 174% more squares than in 2009, from 960 to 2,700; larger residences, more than 1,300 new squares; alzeimer centers, 106% more; disability squares, 18% more; teleassisted, 92% more; home care, 500% more. Your Honor, do you really say that this government is not social? It's the most social government we had in Galicia, according to the budget available. [[Applause]] Your Honor, I repeat: it is the most social government we had in Galicia, according to the budget available. [[Applause]] If you paid 14,000 dependents with 10,800 million budget and we paid 48,000 dependents with 9,000 million budget, really, what is a social government, Mr. Leicega? Who's betting on a social government? [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Leicega, the poverty rate or the exclusion rate, let's compare it. The poverty rate, according to INE, in 2008 was 20.9 % and is now – 2015 – 19.4 %. Well, if you don't know, it's because they don't consult the INE; lately in the ranks of the Socialist Party, except you and some others, there are others who don't know what the National Institute of Statistics is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's how you do it, Your Honor. [[Laughter]] But since you want to be serious, I'm going to be serious. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Leicega, the best thing a country can do is to stand up for those who are going to happen to us. If you invite me to continue spending, then you owe us and leave us debt to the following legislation, that's your proposal; I understand that's the proposal you always make, Your Honor. And the problem is, in the following legislates, we have to come in order to settle the accounts. Look, we approve the assumptions earlier than anyone in Spain, we meet the public deficit, we maintain a public debt that assumes that the Greek social services are healthy for the future and for the present, we have the greatest execution of the budget level we remember, we invest more than the rest of the autonomous communities, we increase social policies more than the rest of the autonomous communities, unemployment is falling, the economy is growing above the average of Spain and the European Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u38	Your Honor, if you tell me that there are problems in Galicia, of course, Your Honor. You know what? If the cities accompanied us with this kind of management, I can assure you that social policies would be better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u40	If you want, one day we're talking about which council spends less social investment in Galicia. You and I know that. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. in Marea, about the grey areas in the financing of the Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u42	Mr. Villares has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Núñez. Just fifteen days ago, you were ashamed of Galician citizenship when, as President of the Board and CEO of the PP, you said that all parties "we used grey areas of the law to fund electoral campaigns." This way of justifying the political corruption of his party was still patched up when he added that it is very different from illicit enrichment: "one thing is a donation to one party and another to grant a public work in exchange for a commission." Mr. Feijóo, the grey areas produce a lot of shadow, to start with, in prison. And that would have to ask you -- you see what's coming over there -- to Basel or Crespo. As far as political funding is concerned, I apologize for a millionaire donation from a company that is then a government contractor and say that there is no illicit enrichment is simply unusual. And it's unusual because there is illegal enrichment, illegal enrichment of a party that then pays its Members with envelopes B. The grey areas of the law in this case produce black money. It seems irresponsible that what you have the opportunity and what you have the duty and responsibility to govern, and a party that has voted a law of funding political parties, if you take advantage of those grey areas of that law that they have approved themselves for an illicit benefit. That has a name and it's called institutional corruption. Institutional corruption is to create a legal framework for fraud. It'll be legal but it's cheating, because it's looking for an unloved benefit by law. We would be interested to know how many laws Mr Feijóo brings to Parliament with grey areas, and whether these grey areas are, first, already planned to have a particular benefit to the detriment of the public good. It's a public scandal that a ruler recognizes that laws with grey areas are made to privately benefit from them, because gray areas produce red alarms. In a crisis-stricken population, there is a scandal that those who will then hire a government are the ones who make unauthorized prayers to the parties. This is absolutely unacceptable. And when a ruler uses a grey zone without getting incarnated, is he on the dark side -- we think -- But it's just that the grey areas could also be interpreted as regards the financing of the Union for the common good; it's something you're not doing. At the previous government control session we asked about the FLA, and we told you: Tell us that article of the law prevented the FLA from going to finance itself instead of going to the private bank, which would have reported to us the savings of hundreds of millions of euros in interest that we could have used for social policies of social investment and real investment. This week we'll pick them up somewhere else. You said -- and we have here our initiative and your answer -- when it was the occasion of the spending ceiling, that they were missing 250 million euros, because the revenues we had to collect from the state were miscalculated, the deliveries to the account. The Consecutor of Fairy told us we weren't strict in that estimate and wouldn't take them into account. Well, two days ago, Soraya Sáenz came from Santamaría, the vice president of the Government, saying that he was under the law; there were no grey areas, so clear it was that he was seen from Madrid; and from Madrid they came to tell him that you were wrong. Look, there are two ways of doing politics in Galicia: that of the People's Party, which uses the areas called law grays to benefit itself, and that of En Marea, which believes that strict interpretation of the law can benefit the majority of society. And the question is this: do you recognize that you were wrong to interpret the law and establish the income of the Union?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u44	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u45	Mr. Villares, in fact, there are two ways of doing politics in Galicia: that of the party the Greeks vote for and that of En Marea. You all right? Well, Mr. Villares, the Greeks will continue to vote and see that there are two ways of doing politics in Galicia; don't worry, I hope you remain a Member in the next legislation. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Villares, you need a lot of gray matter to pose the encircling of your question. I can answer any part you consider appropriate. In any case, I'm glad you follow closely the interviews that they do to the president of the board. What surprises me is that you don't know how to interpret them, but that, naturally, I've been seeing it for quite a few months. Look, Mr. Villares, the subject is serious enough not to joke about it. And so, Your Honor, I have to admit that in my party there are people who took advantage of politics to enrich themselves. In the Catalan parties in favor of the right of self-determination, which you protect, without comment. In the Socialist Party we have the last two presidents of the Socialist Party charged by the Supreme Court. And, therefore, Your Honor, the fellows of En Marea—section We can, subsection Churches, negotiated Venezuela—that, if it seems to you, we don't keep talking. Because if you're an example of a gray area of funding, I understand that Mr. Monedero's gray brain can give you lots of explanations, you have no doubt. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, let's leave metaphors and look at the facts. Yes, yes, I know that there is in your party and in your group people who applaud because they don't care about Podemos, they're more interested in those of Anova; others are more interested in En Marea, others are interested in them more Allah, and others are interested in the brutal mess that you have, that we're ashamed of as Greeks that they are every day in the media. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, I understand that there are replicas, doubles and triples among you, but that's your problem. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, let's go to the facts. Are there members within the People's Party who have been enriched? Yes. Are there members within the Socialist Party who have been enriched? Yes. Are there members of all political parties who have been enriched? Yes. Do you have... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u46	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u47	But if you don't mind, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u48	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u49	...if I understand you don't mind buying official protection housing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u50	Quiet. [[Mrs. Santos Queiruga speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Santos, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u51	...maybe using fraudulent scholarships working in Madrid and having scholarships in Malaga. The last hypocrisy of your party... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u52	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u53	...it was yesterday...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u54	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u55	...with such a picturesque and so romantic image of a senator taking Coca-Cola. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Villares, if you want to be serious, this is a House to be serious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u56	Mrs. Santos, be quiet. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u57	If what you want is to raise absurd questions... [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, I'm just going to tell you one thing -- but you look at the people of Podemos being nervous, Mr. President --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u58	Mrs. Santos, call her in order, call her in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u59	For the first time in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u60	I call her in order, because she's interrupting constantly. You have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u61	...we brought a law on political party financing. I'm proud of that law. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because in that law there are no gray areas. What did you guys do? To vote against. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because maybe they're interested in the gray areas. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u63	Mr President, we have asked you if you admit that you were wrong in applying the law to determine the income of the Union. Would you like to answer that? Yes or no? The question was quite clear — it will be recorded in the Journal of Sessions —... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u64	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u65	...and you have the opportunity to answer it, if you want, in the replica turn or not. But, in any case, in relation to the grey areas, you're right: you have to end the grey areas, and the best way to end the grey areas in the field of corruption is to shed light on the subject. And that's why In Marea brought here a month ago, at the plenary session of this House, the initiative that the Board asked the Attorney General's Office of State and the Ministry of Justice to create in Galicia a delegation of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, because we believe it was necessary to deal with facts that caused social alarm and that were also objectively necessary. What did the People's Party do? To vote against, to vary. And why did they vote against it? Because they don't see it clearly; they'd see it gray maybe, wouldn't they? No, we saw it clearly, because we thought it was necessary. And this week he was re-amended, because the state attorney general came to say that this special prosecutor's office would probably be created for Galicia; it's very likely, even though you voted against it, nothing happens! And indeed, then that brought about a cause, explained by Fernando Suances himself, Galician superior prosecutor. In 2015 -- the last one about which we have the data explained by the Attorney General's Office in Galicia -- more than 200 criminal cases have been opened for corruption in our country, and that justified, in saying, the Attorney General of the State, with that data, the creation of this Attorney General Anti-Corruption. Once again we see another situation, which there are two ways of understanding politics: that of the People's Party, which puts obstacles even in this Parliament to investigating the cases of corruption, and that of En Marea, which is the one that seeks agile and effective justice to end corruption. The state attorney general feels like In Marea, and what do you think? Leave the dark side and come with us, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u66	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Quiet, please. Please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Let's go back to closing this question. Mr. President, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u67	Thank you, Mr. Villares. I'm going to think seriously about the political offer I've just made in public. Look, actually, let's talk about what you want. Now you're talking to me about the state's income, 247 million euros. Well, less bad than at last those of En Marea agree that the Union will have more budget without going to the public debt, Mr. Leicega. Look, we budget these 247 about 80 million euros. We also knew that we were going to raise salaries to public employees by 1%; that is about 50 million euros. And now we're going to receive an additional EUR 110 million, and what I was proposing to Mr. Leicega was that I commit myself to 60,000 dependents being charged this year. Why didn't we do it before, Your Honor? Because we had, first, no legal qualifications; second, because the state budgets will be approved, Mr. Villares. Are you going to support the state budget so Galicia has another EUR 247 million? Isn't that right, Mr. Villares? So what are you talking about? [[Murmurs.]] Are you telling me that you're assuming something fictitious so that there's no law of budgets and that then that budget law doesn't contain the income of the Galician Union? That's what the Bipartite has done, and we're paying 2,000 million euros of hole. I'm not going to let anyone go, Your Honor, 'cause I'd rather be a responsible president than a president who's talking all day and not paying for what he's doing. But, Mr. Villares, let's keep working on that. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Villares, we brought here, on August 7, 2015, a law on funding political formations to strengthen the control of political parties' accounts, and to say loud and clear in Galicia that, if anyone asks for a prayer for a political party, that prayer is for him, because political parties in Galicia cannot receive a euro from any company. He's the first president of an autonomous community — in Galicia — who says so. That's why, Mr. Villares, if anyone asks for a prayer for a political party knows it's false, it's for him, because the political party can't receive it. Why did you vote against it, Mr. Villares? We have brought more laws, such as the Council of Auditors Act, to equip you with skills in the prevention of corruption, to say that the staff of the Board of Auditors must be independent, to say that the members of the Board of Auditors cannot be politicians or take the last six years dedicated to politics. Your Honor, why did you vote against it? Your Honor, we amend the law of transparency and good governance, and we entrust ourselves to the People's Valedor, a body that monitors transparency and good governance. Why did they vote against it? In Madrid we tightened up the penalties for corruption, extended the deadlines for prescription, made a high-ranking law, made a law for economic and administrative control of the parties. Why did you vote against it, Mr. Villares? Why did they vote against it? What exactly are your proposals, Mr. Villares?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u69	Your Honor, you always talk about teaching everyone. We saw it this weekend: "The appointment of Mr. Villares is illegitimate, breaks a consensus list, excludes sensibilities." "The appointment of Mr. Villares is illegitimate," said his companions. Is that a gray zone, Your Honor, of the coalition of parties that you pose?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u70	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u71	Look, Your Honor, about the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, what we've done is, if the prosecutor proposes it, we're equipped with means. Do you know that in justice — you should know, should you know if you've dedicated yourself to justice — we've invested more in these five years than in the fifteen years since the transfer was made?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u73	Mr. Villares, we're used to listening with some curiosity. Look, Mr. Villares, everyone is bad or bad except you, it's true. You're not worth what most of the Greeks say, you're not worth what justice says, you're not worth the People's Valedor, no, you're not worth the People's Valedor, you're not worth your own partymates. And so it goes. But, Mr. Villares, don't worry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u75	...that, while I am president, the law of political parties will be fulfilled. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue with non-law proposals. Specifically with the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luis Bará Torres. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the drive by the Greek Government of an integral plan of action to improve the quality of life and minimize the impact of the various communication infrastructures in the parish of Chapela, in the Town Hall of Roundola
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u77	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u78	To formulate the proposal, Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u79	We will wait until the exodus of MPs of the People's Party is over, which will certainly manifest themselves against the State's budgets. They will manifest their discomfort.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u80	Start, start. You leave them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u81	I suppose, as we're going to talk about things that have to do with the Education Council or that have to do with the Territorial Management Board, they'll be interested in their leaders. But well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u82	Well, let's go over there, start talking about it later, come on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u83	Let's go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u84	Give it to him, give it to him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u85	Well, I want... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u86	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u87	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u88	Quiet, let's let it start.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u89	I want to begin by greeting the neighbouring representatives of the parish of Chapel, who are the representation of a collective formed by the neighborhood association, by the commission of those affected by enlargement works, by the school community and by all the groups of the parish who have been fighting for years and defending what is right. And thanks, precisely, to that struggle, to that mobilization, some things are being achieved. And much more remains to be achieved, than we're going to talk about here today. We're talking about a topic that affects a parish that has a lot of population, which is right at the Vigo entrance, limiting with Teis, between Rande and Vigo, and which is suffering the consequences of an extension of the Rande bridge that was adopted on its day with the approval of the two major parties, both by the People's Party and by the PSOE. The project, specifically, was supported by the time of Minister José Blanco, and is causing a real defeat in the parish, in the parish of Chapla and also in Trasmanó and in the area of Teis, with a brutal impact both from an environmental, economic, social and human point of view during the execution of the works themselves, as it is logical, by the movement of heavy machinery, by the noises, by the vibrations, by traffic, as well as by the consequences that will already have in the medium and long term if these negative impacts are not corrected in an area that is fully urban, which has a lot of population and in which there are many public equipment: health center, educational centers, the parish church and public leisure spaces. And the reality is that this is not everything, which rains on wet, because Chapela's parish can be called, without excess, as a true martyr parish, because over time, over the decades, it has been damaged by an infinity of infrastructure that crosses, divides, breaks the parish, from the railway to the 552 highway or the AP-9 itself since its construction. And now, with this enlargement, let's say that all limits of possible conditions, discomfort and negative impact are already exceeded. And this makes it necessary, in our view, to adopt a specific plan of action which is essentially the responsibility of the Ministry of Development and also the concessionaire of the motorway, to try, on the one hand, to minimize, correct the negative impacts that this infrastructure has — that we defend that it has not been done, that it was not necessary, but the reality is that it is now very advanced in its work—; secondly, to try to take advantage of this action to improve the quality of life in the parish and to create new public spaces, new equipment, which needs the parish of Chapel. Therefore, a joint action plan in a set of measures that we summarize in the following: First of all, it seems to us that it is essential to take this opportunity to definitely end the abolition of the peax between Roundabout and Vigo, to give the character of circumvalidation to that stretch of the highway, and it is also necessary to complement with another pending action, which is also giving urban character to the truce in Teis, in the Teis district, of the motorway between the towers of Padin and the city of Vigo, which would allow to divert much of the heavy traffic that now crosses Sanjurjo Badía Street. This, in addition, is a shared demand for Vigo and Round it up. In the Town Hall of Roundup, the theme of the abolition of the fee was, in addition, the adoption of a unanimous motion, at the initiative of the BNG, at the beginning of this mandate. It therefore has the support of all political forces; it also relies on the support of the social groups, both Round it and Vigo, and significantly those of Chapela; it also relies on the support of the circle of entrepreneurs, transporters and, finally, the board itself seems to have also expressed its intention to manage and support this initiative. So we think that all the circumstances are given to confront and follow this action, which would also allow another action that would be absolutely essential for the improvement of the quality of life of the Chapel parish: urbanization — with characteristics of urban street, therefore, and not a road of passage — of National 552 to its passage through the parish of Chapel, through the urban center of Chapel, which is possibly the one that has the greatest impact at these times on the quality of life of the population. We have to keep in mind that it is a road that passes every day over 15,000 vehicles, which is a barrier that divides into two urban cores, which is virtually impossible to move from one side to another rather than through the steps of enabled pedestrians and traffic lights; therefore, it has some characteristics that make it very aggressive, very hostile and that complicate much the coexistence and quality of life in this area. It is therefore another absolutely priority action. And in this case you must avoid previous mistakes. Because there has already been some action, for example, in the area of Trasmannó, with a pedestrian trail of a little over a mile away — which is really not the action that must be done in these times as to the improvement of road safety and accessibility — in which 200,000 euros were invested with a result I think very small. Thirdly, it seems to us that it is also essential that we move on once and without further delay, because it's been a long time, the question of measures against the acoustic impact of the highway. In 2012 a noise map was already approved, which identified in the area of Chapela, in the area of Teis, points with the greatest acoustic impact of the entire AP-9 motorway. We're talking about more than 15,000 people affected and more than 5,500 people affected by this situation. There is an action plan, since 2012, and since this noise map has been approved, nothing has been done. I think you can't wait anymore. This action plan must be implemented, and it must begin with the parish of Chapel, it must begin with the area of Teis, with the installation of screens or noise protection systems. And also measures such as, for example, a floor that allows to absorb noise and minimize impact. I mean, it must be done as soon as possible and not wait any longer, because the neighbors are enduring those inconveniences. Fourthly, another of the fundamental issues to be addressed is the construction of a new school. Within the allocation of public spaces, public equipment, educational centres, schools and schools are the most affected. The school of the church, of course, is, differently, the most affected by the works. At this point, with the expansion of the third lane, we can say that the track is almost a meter away, that you can touch that third lane with your hand. So they're putting up with teaching in absolutely unbearable conditions. And it has to be said, thanks to social pressure, the pressure of neighbouring groups, the pressure, above all, of the school community of the school of Chapela, that a commitment has been made, and that was later realized in an agreement between Audasa, Fomento and the Town Hall, to move that center to a new plot of 33,000 square meters, approximately, in the place of Citadel. Well, that agreement was in 2015 — March 31, 2015 — it's been over two years, and little has been done, actually, to enable, to implement, that agreement. It turns out that last month, in February, there was a demonstration scheduled for Friday, February 17, and curiously landed there the councillor, who had to leave for education, and the adviser, who had to leave too — they must go there to meet with Members and Members. Well, it turns out they were there two days ago to announce that they already had a solution for land reclassification, and that... well, it's been two years, I think things have to go faster. The works could already be started because there's some land, there's a money putting on Audasa, and it's only necessary to re-align the land, which is a competition from the Union and can't last any longer. They can't tell us it'll take eight months. We propose on this initiative that the works begin this year, and at this rate will not begin this year. Nor will that commitment, at this rate, be fulfilled that the school is in operation at the beginning of the 2019-2020 course. And also, in this sense, I am glad to say — because Mr Losada was concerned about this — that we are going to accept his amendment on a question that seems common to us, and that they also defend all the neighborhood groups and the school community: that the third lane is not opened as long as the new school is not built and the teaching activity is transferred to the new center. Because it would be invisible — it is now — to have that third lane stuck to the school wall. In addition to this, there is also a demand to build a child's school, a new equipment, for which there would be those lands purchased by Audasa, where there is enough place — because the school would have an occupation of about 10,000 square meters —. We therefore ask the Galician Council to make a commitment in that sense too and to bet on the construction of a child's school. There are also other issues, which may seem smaller but are also important, such as the maintenance of the mail service in the current location until an alternative location is reached in a public building. And finally, with regard to the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party, we will accept the amendment that refers to Trasmanó, the improvement of the bridge connecting to Trasmanó, which also corresponds to a motion approved by the plenary in November 2015. And in the rest of the amendments, in which he refers to expropriations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u91	...we think it's a delicate question that we'd have to deal with, I think, with a text that's better different, and also the one that makes reference to historical heritage. In any case, to conclude, what we asked here is to do what we could call a "Plan Chapel." The parish of Chapel has suffered numerous hardships, has suffered many injustices and is now suffering a great silence. So that adversity we think may be an opportunity to make that Chapel Plan, to make that investment plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u93	...that there may be political will to carry it out, that there may be firmness on the part of the board of Galicia to carry it out,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u94	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u95	...and in the budgets, which we don't see in the general budgets of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr. Losada Álvarez. [[Speak words from the guest gallery.]] Please, I beg the people in the audience... please, I invite them, according to Article 109, to evict these people. [[Speak words from the guest gallery.]] [[Speak words from the guest gallery.]] One moment, Mr. Losada, and I'll give you the floor. [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. So we moved on to the next intervention. Mr. Losada, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to start with a less solemn statement and then a more solemn statement. The first one is that at all I'm upset with my shoes, I've been very comfortable with them for 53 years. And the second is that the Socialist Members, and I believe that the Members on the left of this Parliament, we all know what the National Institute of Statistics is, all of us. [[Applause]] I don't know the rest. [[Applause]] The left ones, all of them. Giovanni Sartori passed away. A journalist asked him why he was so high, so high. And he said something that I especially like, he said there are certain characters that are pygmy and that it's inevitable to look at them from above. I believe that this is the general framework in which the debates in this Parliament sometimes take place. The lie — I say a lie and, of course, I will not remove it from the agenda — when used as a systematic political weapon, turns political characters into Pygmies. And when someone says that 90% of the contracts signed in this country are undefined, mind. There's no other word to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u98	Mr. Losada, I'll call the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u99	Yes, yes, you absolutely have to see the lie...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u100	I'll call the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u101	...with Chapel and AP-9. I'll explain why.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u102	Well, see if that explanation is convincing, because I think it's gonna be a very big joke.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u103	I'm sure you, who knows what INE is, understand methodologically the approach to the subject. 9.92% of the contracts signed in Galicia last month were undefined, and 91% were temporary, say the Secretary General of the People's Party of Galicia, with allusions or not, whatever you say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u104	Mr. Losada, I call the matter a second time. Please, let's see if you can.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u105	All right. I'll try. Just like I answered you yesterday, with the microphone closed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I hope so, with the microphone closed. [[Applause]] The BOE of Saturday, February 5, 2000 — it was when Spain went well and there were imperial weddings in the Escorial; now they are almost all in Alcalá Meco — says in clause 16 which is set as a final closing for the deadline for the concession of the AP-9 motorway on August 18, 2048. It's the last highway in the state that's gonna have to pay for a private company. And that's got to hang him on the tab -- I don't know if at INE or anywhere else, I think essentially on the board of directors of Itinera -- the government of the People's Party, the government of Mr. Aznar. And I want to talk about figures. I want to talk about when it's privatized. It is continued in the year 2000, privatised in the year 2003. Yes, it privatizes a first phase for 1,586 million euros and six years later it sells for 3,170 million euros. As the poet would say, who was Sacyr Vallehermoso!, who was Sacyr Vallehermoso! I insist that if the subject of statistics is difficult to understand, from 1,586 million euros to exactly five years later, 3,170 million euros. Isn't that true? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right, all right, all right! You see, you're the members of the People's Party who go to the INE. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Chapel is a parish with a high density of population, as we all know, with extremely complex orographic conditions for the tracing of long-distance channels of communication and, of course, as Mr Bará said, very affected by railway lines, highways, different roads, etc. The extension of the AP-9 and Rande Bridge itself is a project that starts in 2008. I spent every day I came to Santiago there, and I saw every day like that school of the church -- and I'm going to focus on that subject -- when I was, let's say, starting this enlargement project, we all felt that it was very stuck on the highway when it had two lanes. Enlargement is planned and Galician Union begins the transfer process when the third rail is built. I insist, 8 and 9 are 17 -- I'm saying by the INE too -- so they were nine years old to think that if two lanes were too close, in a normal Euclidian space three would be much closer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u107	And, I insist, until now the school is still there, the children are still there and the third lane passes literally — and when I say "literally" I invite them not from the area that goes around -- stuck to the wall of the building, not from the courtyard or anything like it, but from the building, to the wall of the classroom.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u108	Please finish, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u109	It's over, Mr. President. So we are of course going to support this initiative on all the issues that have to do with the quality of life of citizens, which in the end is what we are talking about, and, of course, we have much less to care about the results of Itiner.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u111	By the way, the shareholders' meeting is the day of my birthday, June 2nd. I'm sure there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u113	...something has to do with, in statistical terms, this badly extended.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Cal Ogong has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u115	Good morning to all and to all. Good morning. I don't know if there's a representative of the neighborhood platform and neighbors of Chapel, I don't think anymore, right? From the Parliamentary Group in Marea, we are going to support, as it cannot be otherwise, this proposal that brings today the Nationalist Block Galego. It seems to us totally acquitted, just like the amendments the Socialist Party makes. And it seems to us that it should be supported by all political groups, because we are talking about justice, equality and equity; we are talking about protection against neighbourhood, ensuring quality services, meeting people's needs. We understand that there should be a consensus here between the various political groups because there is also a consensus in the parish of Chapel and in this affected area where people of all political colors, of all sensitivity, understand that these actions are absolutely necessary. And as the voices of the Block and the PSOE have also commented, we're talking about a parish with which we have a historical debt, which has been suffering from the problems of being crossed by the highway and in a situation of absolute abandonment by the institutions for thirty years. And it's time, this is an opportunity, to start making up for that historic debt with this area. It's a debt that starts thirty years ago with the construction of this highway, which at first had a planned plot that passed through the mountain side, which did not suppose the problem of passing through the houses. And on his day, in a very unfair way, he changed, moved, that plot taking into account the interests of the least, taking into account the interests of large private companies — people you are from there, from the area, you know perfectly what we mean — and thus betraying citizenship to benefit the economic interests of large companies. And therefore, as I say, this is time to start clearing the neighborhood of this area. We must be on the side of citizenship, meet their needs, meet their demands. The neighborhood of Chapela is also bearing a maintenance — which also seems important to us — a maintenance of the highway, the sawmills, the lighting, totally defective. We know what great benefits Audasa is having with the exploitation of the highway, but the institutions at no time demanded that she have made a good maintenance, finding us up to four meters trees at some point in a cliff in the middle of an urban hull, which is totally reprehensible and cannot be allowed. We need to humanize this parish, which is totally dehumanized. And for the last two years, as you've also noted, there's been an increase in discomfort, enduring noises, enduring jams in urban centers. With regard to these proposals, I would say very much above that the abolition of the AP-9 peas between Rande and Vigo seems absolutely necessary and of common sense. We're talking about an urban highway that passes through the center of the dwellings and that the logic is that it is used as a round, as a circle, for the use of neighbors and neighbors. Because they support the highway, at least if they benefit from it, in addition to that it would be a benefit that would dynamize the area socially and economically. So everyone benefits by releasing that part of the highway. With regard to the urbanization of 552, road safety, accessibility, mobility must be given priority, so that the citizenry living in that area has a more liveable life in its surroundings. It is also a proposal of common sense and we understand that there is no reason to be against it. On the maintenance of the mail service, if the Galician board is unable to plan and change services, the logical thing is to ensure that, while it does not change, the services — or the state — are kept there, but we are urging the state, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The fourth of what we are talking about, the anti-fraud protection systems, of course, is also another totally coherent demand in which we will all agree. And with regard to the school of the church, as they have already commented, thirty years ago that school should no longer be there. It's a demand from the mothers and parents of the children that are there, and we have to make sure that this is solved. And to finish, that I don't have much time left, as Mr Pazos will come out to defend the position of the People's Party, already on one occasion Mr Pazos voted against enlargement, this enlargement, he held banners supporting neighbouring, and then here in Parliament voted the opposite. We hope that at this moment, Mr Pazos will also support the neighborhood and the neighboring platform in these demands — which made me know when I went to the demonstration to Round it, that he was in agreement and couldn't attend because he had other things to do and he couldn't attend, but that he was in favour of those demands—
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u117	...and we hope that it will be consistent and that it will vote in favour of this proposal and so correct...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u119	...with your neighbour that previous situation. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. You have the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u121	Well, they're gonna let me start talking about coherence. Coherence is to try not to deceive people, and that's why I have to explain that the Education Adviser and the Infrastructure Advisor do not remain in this plenary, among other things, because they are not Members. Then you have to get out of here when the government questions are over, because they're working. That is something you should know about at least the Members of this House. The PPs are here to listen to the problems of the neighbors of Chapel and debate about them. [[Applause]] Look, every time this group asks a question like this for the Government, they call us a belligerent initiative. I have to say that I have a certain surprise when, for the first time since I was a member of parliament, a campaign initiative in it presents a group of opposition. That's why I have to announce, Your Honor, the positive vote on this non-law proposal. I want to thank you for your presentation and, yes, I'm going to do it in the "popular style," that is, without making them fall into a donkey after announcing that we've agreed; contrary to what you usually do. How are we not going to support this initiative that requires explicit recognition of PP policy to solve the problems of AP-9 enlargement in Chapela? Do you want to ask the State to urbanize National 552? For I have already announced that the People's Group of Roundup, with the support of the Galician Union, has already done that management and has already begun the processing of the access reorganization project and the adequacy of the National 522 margins in Chapela. The estimated initial amount is 1.05 million euros. Do you ask for the maintenance of the mail service? I've already told you that you are taking, with the relevant administrations, some jobs that I hope will soon bring fruit and leave that problem permanently solved. They request the installation of anti-fraud protection systems in Chapela and Teis. Well, look, we've already approved on this issue in a parliamentary committee just weeks ago, the People's Group initiative. They call for a shift in the lands of the Jinaria estate, where the new school centre of the Church will be located, and last week the Councillor for Culture, Education and Ordination — who has now gone to work — announced the processing of that requalification by the exceptional procedure of Law 3/2016, the so-called Citroën law. You're asking for construction in those very lands of a child's school. We already have the written commitment of the Social Services Council to its construction, pending post at the disposal of the land. And I don't want to forget either of your request to send the State the abolition of the AP-9 to the third Rande-Vigo. And I've already told you that, as planned and transferred also to the Joint Committee of Galicia-Ministry of Development, we will also support that request. [[Applause]] Mr Bará, Mr Bará, you brought us here today an initiative that was intended to be a letter to the Magi Kings, and the truth is that most of your wishes today are already certain commitments, in the process of execution, and not by magic art precisely, but by the work of some institutions governed by the People's Party that are committed to diminish the damage caused to the Chapel. Thanks to that work, it was made free of charge at the Jinaria estate, which the nationalists and the socialists wanted the Roundup Council to pay for more than two million euros. Thanks to that work, there will be a new open-ended school for the Council or the Town Hall of Roundup, and students will not continue to be required to stay in the old school or to be distributed to the centres of the parish already in Chapel, which was what the Socialist Party wanted. Thanks to these works, the entrances of the parish of Chapel will be improved and the access bridge will be expanded to Trasmanó, which was not provided for in the royal decree that approved the extension of AP-9. Mr. Losada, Mr. Losada, your Chapel is worth the same thing as corruption, as a gun throws. I was here yesterday for the resignation of the president of Murcia for being charged. That is, yes, yes, yes, yes, it has the mayor of Vigo in exactly the same situation, but it says nothing about it; that is his coherence. [[Applause]] Look, the royal decree passed on November 18, 2011 — the last council of government ministers Zapatero—; that day, less than forty-eight hours before general elections were held, Minister Pepe Blanco announces his approval, with diurnity, relief and concealment. The minister announces that good news, the greatest glory of Mr. Caballero, who now exercises as a friend of Chapela, sends a trick! but, yes, Mr. Blanco also announces that day that the conditions of the AP-9 enlargement agreement will be made public after the election day, historical shows socialist transparency. They hid us from increasing the toll on the AP-9 throughout their course for the next 20 years and they closed until after the election, until after the election. Look, it was the last joke of a very long list of socialist aggravations in the Chapel. Look, it was Mr. Touriño and Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u122	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u123	...the ones who agreed to release Vigo's plot toll, except for Rande. It was the Socialists who decided to prioritize the extension of AP-9 to the detriment of A-57, against the criteria of the Galician Union. It was the socialists who refused for years to meet with the neighbors of Chapel. It was Mr. Zapatero's governments who didn't contemplate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u124	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u125	...no improvement for Chapel in the royal decree of enlargement. I'm done. It was Mr Blanco's minister who imposed in that royal decree not a single measure of protection to the historical heritage. And after all this, you have the courage to present us with an amendment that is nothing more than the list of matters currently being negotiated by the Roundup Council to minimize the outcome you have created, including issues that you yourself have refused to approve in the roundup. It's embarrassing, it's a hair jacket. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u126	Thank you very much, Mr Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u127	We cannot of course support that, and I already tell you that, if you do not articulate a possibility that you will support your motion and not the amendment that you present, we will vote against and present initiatives defending, this time if you really do, the interests of the neighbors of Chapela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u128	Thank you very much. You have the word in the turn of the replica Mr. Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u129	Don't get angry, Pajos. You know, right? Don't get mad. I mean, I understand that... No, it's because of that saying I told you the other day about not getting angry. I understand you're gonna be a little nervous, because, besides, now it seems like the race begins... pre-electional round her, looks like the current mayor isn't going to follow, you have to look for a replacement, you have to do some merit, right? , then it's a little altered Mr. Pazos. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] It's okay, because, besides, yeah. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u130	Please don't dialogue and listen to who's using the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u131	No, it's just that it's boring, you have to give it a little bit of salsa. Anyway, what I have to say to you, in order to be in favour of everything, is that if the People's Party is already practically all in progress, with little success, because these things are several years old, they're not yesterday or early, you've been -- how many? -- five or six years in the Union and in the Central Government, they've been able to do more. We're talking about a work that's been going on for several years, the anti-noise plan is 2012, the noise map, so the measures could be taken in time. The deal to do the new school is 2015; they could also do a little reclassification. By the way, I remind you, too, that the Roundup Council has responsibilities in that agreement as well; let's also hope that it will put the economic means needed to urbanize the land, it will not be that the special infrastructure plan will then be made and the Roundup Council does not do its homework. Finally, this unanimous agreement of Parliament seems to us to be an important step forward. Let us hope so, because we are going to accept some of the amendments of the Socialist Group, and also hope that it will have sensitivity to support them, because it is not a rabieta; that is to say, if they are reasonable questions, for example, that the third lane is not open until the new school is built, we are going to support the issue of the Trasmanó bridge, an agreement of the Roundup Town, of the Roundup Town Hall, at the initiative of the PSOE, which was also approved unanimously; therefore, we think it is reasonable to support it. Even though they must have taken the measures before, we also find it reasonable to recover as far as possible, because the outcome is already capital, the heritage affected by the works, both architectural and industrial. Those issues seem reasonable to us, just like you're referring to. So, 5 bis, 4 bis and 4 -- I don't know if this word can be said here, because it's 4 sex; sometimes, I don't know, we put some like that -- sex, we're also going to support it, which refers to the theme of historical heritage. Those three we're going to support them. I also hope that the People's Party too does not seem bad to include these issues that complement them, improving the central issues that are in the BNG proposal. So it's a step forward, it's an important step, but it doesn't come up with this deal. From now on we need political will, decision, firmness, also on the part of the Galician Council, to carry out all these measures, especially those that are fundamental, which is the liberalization of the fee, the urbanization of the N-552 and the transfer as soon as possible to the new construction of the Church school. Therefore, I would like to thank you for your support and hope that all these measures will be realized as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Did I get it right: 4 bis, 5 bis and 4 sexies, like you said? All right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we moved on to the debate of the next non-legislation proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Investment Development necessary to ensure a railway service of wide metrics - Renfe-Feve- in Galicia in the best possible conditions, as well as the transfer to Galicia's board of competences in the field
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u133	Two amendments were tabled: the Galician Socialist Group and the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u134	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodil has the floor. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u135	Thank you, President. Today we have a full initiative with regard to an infrastructure that is key to our country, but above all for the districts of Ferrolterra, Ortegal and the Navy, which is the old line of Feb, a line that was transferred to ADIF in 2013 and whose operation of services belongs to Renfe Operator. I mean, by clarifying the ideas a little bit, if you can transfer this information to the President of the Board, who last week, in the press presence, thought that Fever still had president of his. The old line of Febe, I said, is rubbed out because of the dislosure of the Ministry of Development, but also because of the inoperation of the Infrastructure Council. By the way, there are nine mayors still today waiting to meet with counsellor Mrs. Ethel Vázquez; I hope you can receive them without much further delay. The old Febe is in love with the lack of investment, particularly by a Spanish government to which the railway connection of the northern cortex of our country matters little, or rather nothing, because, if we take care of the reality, the facts speak for themselves. An amount of EUR 12.8 million was cancelled without any explanation for track maintenance between 2017 and 2020. The German Government — it must also be said — did not reacquisition even the least when this suppression occurred. We also saw the constant suppressions in our own services, almost six hundred last year 2016, and that adds to the lack of maintenance personnel, reviewers, mechanics and even attention to users at different stations and pedestrians, some of these docks, by the way, without parking area or cleaning service, among others. In the meantime, all we know about the response of the Galician Board to this premeditated dismantling, which has been orchestrating by the Ministry of Development for several years, is that it has sent letters to the Ministry of Development and to the Operator Renfe itself in which the advisor tells them — and I read it textually — "I would be grateful if you would take the appropriate steps to resolve the lack of operationality of the railway line Ferrol-Ribadeo." The Spanish Government has been suffocating the service for years and justifying it in addition to the figures it suffocates the dismantling of the service, and the most we see capable of doing to the Infrastructure Advisor is sending a letter asking to see if anything can be done. We don't know if you've been answered, but, in view of the latest data, we understand that no, because on March 31 that is, on Friday last week, the services Ferrol-Oviedo-Oviedo-Oviedo-Oviedo-Ferrol were suppressed in the morning—of course, the connection of all the municipalities by which the old Febe in the Navy depends precisely on this line—and Ferrol-San Sadurniño in the afternoon. Days before, the withdrawal of the cargo cargo zones at Moeche and Ponte Mera began, because, according to Renfe-ADIF, they are underutilized, and that there is not a lot of convoys from the Sardinian station with cargo and precisely from the Moeche loading zone also with wood towards Euskadi, besides that there is not, of course, any rolling or personal material for the transport of goods assigned to Galicia, but services are provided directly from Asturias, like the customer's pay telephone, to make any complaint or claim, which must be called an Asturian telephone. From the Galician Nationalist Block, we believe that there must be more to do than send letters to the Ministry of Development and the Renfe. We need to defend a public service, which is fundamental to the vertebration of our territory, by also demanding the fulfilment of the commitments made with regard to investments for the maintenance of our own route, or at least raising our voice to ask for explanations when these investments are suppressed. We therefore put forward this non-law proposal, which raises two clear demands: firstly, to address the Ministry of Development — and by extension also to the Spanish Government — to demand the necessary investments and thus ensure the maintenance of the track, by the way, in better conditions in the 1980s if we take care of travel times than today. And it also has a good opportunity for this Parliament after the draft budgets were presented for 2017 to exert pressure, given that this parliamentary negotiation process now opens in the Spanish Courts, to see if we also hear something more about our country in the context of these talks; we are talking more about the Canary Islands in the Spanish Courts than in Galicia. The second is to demand the transfer of competences, because what makes it clear to us, in view of the reality that we are living in recent years in relation to Fever, is that the Spanish Government doesn't care at all. But we play the communications of three districts in an area that concentrates more than two hundred and forty thousand people and an exit door to our merchandise. To make an idea, only Alcoa moves by day 350 tons of aluminium plate, but let's look at the paradox: the way of the Fever passes by bordering the fence of the Alcoa plant itself, but it does not have any type of cargo space within the factory itself, which obliges us to transfer the goods to the ground, in trucks, through the urban centers of the area. And yet, with this situation from our point of view absolutely unrealistic in a developed country, Alcoa uses four weekly frequencies to transfer that aluminium plate from the Jupiter station. Imagine the economic possibilities that would open up, not only for Alcoa, but also for the wood industry and others in these districts of Ortegal, Ferrolterra and the Navy, the possibility of having a good commodity service and the commercial use of the northern dock of Porto Morás, for example, that we have also recently urged in Commission 5 to be rescued for the public and open to commercial uses. The Galician transfer of management of what was formerly Fever is possible; it is possible in addition to the narrow framework of our prevailing legality, although there are voices — tell me — in this House that they believe it is not. In 1971 the old renfe was transferred to the Basque Government, through companies that later became in 1982 in the Euskotren; and in 2011 the Catalan Rodalies, who also belonged to that line of the old Feb, were also transferred to the Government of the Generalitat. In this sense, and because we're also introducing all the pieces of analysis, we're not going to accept the Socialist Party's amendment, and I explain why. Because if you accept the House as a whole to transfer or request the transfer of these powers to the Spanish Government, it is assumed that this transfer will involve the opening of a bilateral negotiating table to see how that transfer is carried out. We understand that the mere fact that we remember that the old Febe is managed directly by the Board of Galicia has already opened this conversation and that negotiation with the Spanish State. Since the BNG we have the conviction that we must — and I have already commented on it yesterday — on scholarships for study aid, we have to take responsibility for our own lives and for the future of our country. Let's stop sending letters asking us to solve our problems, as the People's Party proposes in the amendment, which we won't accept, and we've already transferred it to the spokesperson of the People's Group. What we understand is that we must collectively, as a people, as a German Parliament and as well as the Galician Union, collectively take responsibility and begin to take steps to integrate our country into a yellow network of rail transport of proximity, starting precisely by the old Feb. We have an obligation to offer quality service to the population of Ortegal, to the population of Ferrolterra, also to the population of the Navy, to those who are going to work, to those who are going to study, to those who will make use of public services, such as the Coast Hospital, or simply to those who want to enjoy a leisure afternoon. We have to equip our country's companies in addition to the infrastructure under the circumstances, ultimately, we believe that we bet on the 21st century Galicia, because as far as the train is concerned, on the Feb, on the nearest train or even on the high speed in this country, we are still installed in the 19th century. For me, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u136	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. The parliamentary groups have the floor Mr Fernández Fernández, representing the Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. The Galego Nationalist Block today brings to the House a non-law proposal on rail transport, in this case the line of Fever Ferrol-Ribadeo, a question of rail transport by traditional lines, including the transport of proximity, which has already been widely debated in this same Chamber in the past legislate. We remember what he had in his presentation of initiatives the application of Royal Decree No. 22/2012 of 20 July, of what, under the costume of rationalization of railway services, approved by the Government of Mr. Rajoy, with the approval of the Government of Mr. Feijóo, his practical application, through the way of facts, placed the traditional rail transport at the edge of his disappearance, premature and consented by the popular governments. All the actions undertaken in the line of that decree, what they did, were to weaken the rail transport to justify their dismantling. We must remember that the actions took place in four measures: closing and stopping stations, removing itineraries, reducing and removing frequencies and changing schedules, which made it impermissible from the point of view of public offer to citizens. The effects of these actions have harmed and harmed the towns and villages located in the areas of these same routes; the damaged, again, the neighbours and neighbors who live primarily in the vicinity of the cities, but within the countryside. Mrs. Rodil, the nearby railway service, has been as widely debated in this House as ignored by central and autonomous governments, in the hands of the People's Party. So it seems idle to repeat arguments that we all know and that all of us also recognize. There seems to be only a substantial difference: the groups we are in the opposition make arguments for their implementation and even demand a competitive and financial transfer to make it a reality for the benefit of the citizens and also, of course, of the mobility needed for those neighbours, and the People's Group, on the other hand, that governs both Galicia and Spain, recognizes these arguments, but indefinitely delays taking firm steps for their implementation. The amendment of the People's Party to this initiative goes, moreover, by that ambiguous line that allows them to keep alive something that they will never fulfill. It seems that the People's Government has a communication problem — I think it might, in fact, be —. Of course your amendment to this initiative — yes but no, but no — will not solve this communication problem, because it must be remembered that Mr. Feijó's government has been announcing progress in the implementation of the nearby railway service since 2011 and the population has not seen them anywhere. It should also be recalled that on 2 October 2014, Commission 2a approved a proposal from the People's Group, which was negotiated with the Socialist Group, which literally said: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to request the Government of Spain to approve the study of the feasibility analysis of the deployment of proximity services in the metropolitan areas of Galicia, in order to implement a quality public railway service for the Greek users." That's the problem of incommunicado; I don't think it's a communication problem of the People's Party; rather, it's a problem of non-compliance with its announcements and also of non-compliance with the agreements of this House, even those of the People's Parliamentary Group itself. There's a reality that offers no doubt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u138	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u139	...the neighbors and neighbors of the metropolitan areas Vigo-Pontevedra and Ferrol-La Coruña, or the extension of this initiative to Ribadeo, also have a problem of communication, of railway communication, provoked and propitiated by the non-compliances of the popular governments. I am finished, Mr President, to tell Mrs. Rodil, the exponent of this initiative, that we agree with her exhibition part and we make a amendment in point 2, that you have already said you refused, but that in any case did not change the substance. We believe that these are just small issues, and therefore the Socialist Group will also approve this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. You have the floor, by the Galician People's Group, Mr. Vega Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u141	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. First of all, I would like to highlight and make clear a position that I think is to believe the truth, and to believe the truth is trusted with facts, Mrs. Rodil. It's hardly worth asking if those requests are not believed to be facts, and our facts are a demonstration of a concern that exists permanently by the railway line Ferrol-Ribadeo. The commitment of the German Government is clear, and we don't need to be told from the left what we have to do, and much less let the Socialist Party tell us to break our promises. And what is your promise and your commitment to the line while you were in Madrid? Zero — I'm telling you — zero. Therefore, lessons, none. When you say the councillor didn't meet with the mayors, what does the mayor mean? Because I've already told you that the councillor met with the mayors of the area. That meeting with these mayors, together with the Council and with the Government of Greece, has become a request made to the Ministry and the Government of the State, and to the President of Renfe, now ADIF, and there has been a petition. That petition has been filed because there is a concern about that railway line Ferrol-Ribadeo. But of course, it is now that he comes to the left to tell us that we have to worry and work for that line, but I say yes, I say yes, and I tell him that there are measures and that we are going to consider urgent measures for that. And we're going to demand the Ministry of Development, which is the only one with the skills, who works on that line. We're also going to work on boosting new communications services, rolling transport as well. I think that's important, it's important to go parallel to working together with transport services. And you're telling us that we have to transfer our powers to the state. I didn't know that was going to solve the problem. Now, Mrs. Rodil, if that is your commitment and your solution to work on this line, hey! for mercy, my God, why have you abandoned me? Because of course, that doesn't work out. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, I think it's up to me, not you. He's already shined in the morning, he's seen himself. [[Murmurs.]] So what I'm going to tell you clearly is that subdividing competences doesn't make it more viable, quite the opposite: it makes it more deficit. And you know that Fever, Spanish railway lines, I have to tell you clearly that there is Basque Country, Cantabria, Asturias, Galicia. Of course, subdividing the losses is what you say. And more so, you want to tell the Greeks that they have to pay for this deficit service from their pocket. That's what you're telling the Greeks. You to the Greeks are not transmitting that we are going to solve the problem together, and you, who systematically say that they want pacts, that they want permanent dialogue, you see. Can't a pact come out here between all political formations? I think it was the most necessary, that all the political formations we had agreed on, we decided that we would do this line, work and push decisively, decisively, because I already tell you that we will lead this project and we will clearly say that this will have a solution. And I'm telling you, we at the first point agree, with the second point clearly not. So I want to finish by telling you that I would like you to have the ability to say -- they have the ability, they have the ability to say it every day -- that we have to reach agreements and agreements -- I said it every day -- but to see if they can do it once. And they respect that this Chamber, this plenary, this Parliament has a vocation and the vocation is to reach agreements and understanding. For the part of the People's Group it was all and it is possible to come to an understanding. You've already told us not to. Look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u143	...you have a routine call for slippers -- I say by holding banners -- and that's why you don't solve the problems, but they get worse. [[Laughter]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vega. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u145	Sometimes the only way to deal with it seriously is to get a little out of the mood. The phrase of the People's Party MP that the commitment to this People's Party project is of course reminded me of a sentence by Tirano Banderas, who was very good. An indigenous American told a Spanish: "The mother country will be very big but the samples she sends us here are well chinged." For the compromise will be very great, but the samples, well chinged, Mr. People's Party. You just need to see how Feve's line is. And only someone very cynical can come here to deny that he is in a state of deliberate abandonment, only someone very cynical. It's obvious that the people's party's cynicism is very high and it's hard to overcome, we're not surprised at anything. Go that way, go that way, I'm not willing to discuss reality. You can say that here, you have 41, you can say it's a perfectly fat machine on Febe. Instead, we know that the only cleanup of the tracks and the edges of the tracks that have that line is the machine itself when it passes, which is cutting down the woods. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] What we know is that services are constantly suspended and contracted with bus companies, those that then give wine to certain members who have the power to decide on bus concessions. We know that. [[Murmurs.]] We know more buses work than trains, that's what we know. And we know that it is necessary, a necessary condition but not enough, that Galicia governs and designs its own railway lines — don't catch it or freeze with it. Because, if not, how do we explain, Mr. People's Party, the current situation of railways in this country and its design? If even Mr. Feijóo just admitted on a board recently that the only two competitive lines are the Santiago-Ourense line and The Vigo-Coruña line, the Atlantic axis, right? Mr. Feijó said so. And, of course, look, what a coincidence that the only two competitive routes are hitting passenger records!, so you can change your chip when you talk about subdividing your losses. No, no, is that the north needs rail connection to goods and passengers, and to connect the Navy, which has a historic deficit, which I suppose you in the thirty years that have been in the Government have nothing to do with it, right? A hundred thousand people in the Navy are much less informed than citizens from other parts of the country and should have the same rights. And if that's the case, and if there's a need for that railway connection, you guys, who've been in government for 30 years and you've had friends who say it's in Madrid, we see today's a good day to see what governments friends have when they beat budget cuts records, and yet Mr. Puy says it's an effort for the cohesion of the Spanish state. Of course, to develop subdeveloped territories like Catalonia, of course yes, and we have to endure the pulp as a pet. Of course, and it's also a good day after a high office of the People's Party, of ADIF, Mr. Cortabitte, come and declare, because in Europe there are people who are neutral and who are not in the state's railway policy mafia, who have been throughout all these years designing railway policies — money, not rationality, money —. Because, if not, how is it possible for these two competitive lines, large millionaire works, multimillionaires, to live together with the absolute abandonment of the rest? The absolute abandonment of the rest means there's no improvement in 100 years. That's abandonment. Or how you define that, don't you? And we have to stand by and say that we're going to lead the project. But it's been 30 years of government! What did they do? You guys didn't just get here. We therefore support this initiative for a number of reasons: for the usefulness of this railway, which we believe is one more step in changing the model necessary for the rail connections of this country and its design, as it is necessary to vertebrate the country through the connection between the most important cities and towns, the application of rationality and austerity not only in social services, health or education, but rationality with the companies that then give you the money. Yes, that rationality, which means that, if we have a way that is necessary, we can maintain it. And not how you guys do this year, they drop 10 million euros to the maintenance of the Feb and it's 2 million and a half. 10 million will reduce it in the budgets of the state!, those wonderful budgets that will help the cohesion of the Spanish state. That's right, we got two candles in Galicia thanks to its great political weight. And, finally, if Mr. Cortabitte has the right not to testify, but he is still high in charge of ADIF, you have the duty to demand that he cease this gentleman for constantly failing to respect the victims of the accident and citizenship in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u146	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u147	All right, let's go. I like to do an exercise that in journalism is called "the cursed hemerotheca", which is to review what was discussed in this House before many of the people we are part of today's parliamentary arch arrived here. Look, in 2009 -- I was just entering the People's Party again at Galicia's board, and you like to remind us constantly -- I was counsellor of Augustine Hernández's Infrastructure. In 2009, at this same parliamentary headquarters, he promised and committed to creating a Galician railway company to seek a better and more efficient use of the railways we have near today — around. The de facto powers for Galicia to have its own railway company and manage the entire railway connection within its country are recognised in the 1981 Statute. And what impresses me — as I say in some way — is that we are questioning Galicia's self-government or capacity to decide for ourselves. Because, then, what do we do together in defending the transfer of AP-9 management, supported by the People's Party for some time now. We understand, and in view of the very data that lie not only the State budgets for 2017 — that, by the way, it has to do with the line of Fever in the province of Lugo, to which we belong both Mr Vega and myself, what they expect is an investment of 15,000 euros; 15,000 euros to keep a trainway, even if it is of a width metric, is to laugh or cry! — that the remaining evidence is that the interest of the Spanish Ministry of Development and the Government of Spain in respect of the old train, Fever is null. If we want there to be a possibility for the future to connect the population and also as a key infrastructure for the economic development of the Ortegal, Ferrolterra and The Navy districts, it happens because we assume the management of that infrastructure. To the Government of the Spanish State two hundred and forty thousand people and three comarcas like ours, because they don't suppose anything, but they represent a fundamental part of our country. And there's no more to compare. If we compare the population that the city of Lugo has, those three comarcas as a whole multiply by three that number of inhabitants. For us it's a fundamental service, it's a key element in the socio-economic dynamization of these three districts. And just to comment, because you said something here that isn't true, that is, the Infrastructure Advisor, who, we're sorry, hasn't arrived yet, he's not here, he hasn't met with the councils affected by the Feb line. And I quote you exactly what are the municipalities that have recently met, that on April 7 they will try to meet with her approaching the council itself: Viveiro, Ortigueira, Cariño, Valdovinho, Cedera, Sardinian, Moeche, San Sadurniño, Narón and Ferrol's own Town Hall. We accept the point vote because it gives less a stone. We have said it on more occasions, but you are acquiring — and you know — a commitment to require the Government of the Spanish State to invest more than currently planned in the 2017 budget proposal. We will be vigilant and we will continue to bring this House, as many times as necessary, that Galicia, if you want to have a proximity train, goods and passengers according to your country's needs, will pass because it assumes the management and political responsibility of having a proximity train. From the Ministry of Development we see that little or nothing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u148	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u149	...we can wait. Nothing else. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Now that the debate on non-law proposals is over, we begin with the vote on the proposals. Firstly, we shall vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the launching by the Government of Galicia of the mechanisms necessary to consensual with the political forces the position that Galicia will defend in the General Commission of the Autonomous Communities of the Senate in relation to the Covenant on Social and Political Status for Education. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u151	We are now voting for the Group of the European People's Party. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez and Ms. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece to curb the plague of the chestnut. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u152	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group. I was pending a transaction. If there is a transaction, please ask the honourable Member to read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u153	Yes, I read to the reached transaction: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to promote jointly with the Fegamp, with which concrete formulas and deadlines will be agreed, the creation of supra-municipal cemeteries that can meet the demand for burials according to the criteria of minority religious confessions with greater raignification in Galicia, within the framework of general and sectoral legislation." And a second point that would urge the amendment of Decree 151/2014 of 20 November, of dead health in Galicia, to regulate those burials that have to be made in contact with the earth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u154	Thank you. If he makes it to the Juridical Services, we thank him. We voted for this transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Alberto Pazos Couñago and six other Members, on the impetus for the Galician Union, together with Fegamp, of the creation of supramunicipal cemeteries that can meet the demand for burials according to the requirements of the minority confessions with greater raignification in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 59; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u155	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The amendment was accepted but how to add it. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de la Concepción Burgo López and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the demands that the Government of Galicia must make to the central government in relation to the current system of concession and the regulatory regulation of scholarships and aids to the study. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u156	And now we are voting for the En Marea Parliamentary Group. The amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was accepted and a point of order was also put to the vote. I don't know if this keeps him. Do they hold a point vote? So it's three points. How can we vote?: Two and one, three or four, can we group them? How? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let us first vote points 1, 2 and 4. We vote. Vote of points one, the second and the fourth of the proposed non-legislative G.P. text. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members, on the demand that the Government of Greece should make to the Ministry of Public Society Development Soelo Empresarial del Atlantico, S.L. of new seeding processes with bonus prices that make the industrial polygon of Vimianzo more competitive and initiatives for its promotion, as well as the start of the procedures to achieve the transfer to Xestur of all industrial soil offers in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. These points were therefore adopted by 72 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u157	And now we are voting on point 3. We vote. Third-point vote on the proposed non-law of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal and three other Members, on the demand that the Government of Greece should make to the Ministry of Public Society Development Soelo Empresarial del Atlantico, S.L. of new seeding processes with bonus prices that make the industrial polygon of Vimianzo more competitive and initiatives for its promotion, as well as the start of the procedures to achieve the transfer to Xestur of all industrial soil offers in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u158	We are now voting on the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group. Yesterday it was said that the first part of the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was accepted, but a transaction was pending. If you read our transaction, if there's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u159	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to draw up a programme to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the declaration by Santiago de Compostela of the Council of Europe, which recognises the Way of Santiago as the first European cultural itinerary, while collecting on the same actions for the recognition of the other European cultural itineraries of the Council of Europe from which Galicia participates. For the elaboration of this programme, the Galician Union will request the collaboration of the municipalities involved through the Fegamp."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u160	Thank you. If you get us the transaction to the Juridical Services... We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. On the initiative of Da María Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez and six other Members, on the preparation by the Galician Council of a programme to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the declaration by the European Union of the Way of Santiago as the first European cultural itinerary in which the other European itineraries of the Council of Europe take part. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 59; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u161	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Three points were accepted, in particular, of the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which is already expressed here. A point of order was not accepted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D Xosé Luis Bará Torres and five other Members, on the drive by the Greek Government of an integral plan of action to improve the quality of life and minimize the impact of the various communication infrastructures in the parish of Chapela, in the Town Hall of Roundola. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u162	And finally, we voted for the Parliamentary Group, too, for the Nationalist Block of Wales. The amendments were not accepted, but the voting was accepted by points. That's two points. First, let us vote on the first point. We vote. Vote of the first point of the Proposal, not the law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Investment Development to ensure a railway service of wide metrics in Galicia in the best possible conditions, as well as the transfer to Galicia's board of competences on the subject. [[Rinfe-Feve]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This point was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u163	Let us now vote on the second point. We vote. Vote of the second point of the Proposal, not the law of the G.P. Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the demand by the Greek Government to the Ministry of Investment Development to ensure a railway service of wide metrics in Galicia in the best possible conditions, as well as the transfer to Galicia's board of competences on the subject. [[Rinfe-Feve]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u164	At the end of the vote, we moved on to the fifth item on the agenda, petitions, with the only one left. Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on registration in the register of property property property of the Catholic Church
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u165	To formulate this question, Mrs Vilán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u166	Thank you, President. Good morning. One day, in this same gallery, a member of the People's Party rose up and said that you are self-denominated liberals; for, sadly, much older and more reactionary than those Liberals of the 18th and 19th centuries who were protagonists of demortization in Spain. Those moderate and progressive liberals, not only took them three centuries of advantage at that time, but already three hundred years ago they had political, economic and ideological reasons for taking action with the properties of the Catholic Church; three hundred years later, you don't have them. Such measures as those today would make much more sense in a country where people have to pay taxes, whereas the Catholic Church not only pays taxes, but even allows it, by its legislation, to take advantage of what should be the national heritage, the heritage of all citizens. Those Liberals, whom you should copy, played a role in what was called demortization, a long historical, economic and social process that began in 1798; as Tomás and Valiente said, a set of different but similar legal texts that complemented what was essentially suppressed three hundred years ago the prohibition of selling the properties of the Catholic Church, of the Crown, of the nobles, of all those who were called "dead hands" in our country. They placed themselves in the market, expropriatingly and through public auctions, lands and goods that until then could not be sold and that were in the hands of, for example, the Catholic Church or religious orders that had accumulated them for having received prayers or wills knows God as--never better said. Demortization was a political weapon with which those liberals, who not only had three centuries of advantage — I would say three thousand — modified the regime of the property of the Old Regime, to implement the new liberal state, which, curiously, you like it so much. It would be good if they were to copy Campomanes, Mendizábal and Spartero, because with that demortization — which had begun with Campomanes — that man, in 1798, only ventured to paralyze the process of land accumulation in the name of the Catholic Church. If you had copied Campomanes, you could have done the same thing that happened to Campomanes: he was banned and the Catholic Church, in his book Treaty of Royality of Amortization, declared his book forbidden. It's true that you should have written a book first. [[Applause]] You copy Mendizábal, who was brave not to compensate the Catholic Church for expropriations, and the Church, then, decided to excommunicate all the demortizers and all the buyers. Oh, God, what a horror! But the process was already unstoppable. You copy the Spartero, which completed the demortization of the assets of the Catholic Church declaring national property to those who belonged to the secular clergy and gave them for sale. The moderates arrived and reached an agreement with the Vatican, with the Vatican State, through an agreement of 1851. And they agreed that the Catholic Church accepted the sales that had been made before, but imposed three conditions, three spiritual conditions: one, that the Government had economically supported the clergy; two, that the Government considered Catholicism to be the State religion; and three, that the Government recognized the Church institutions' ability to acquire goods. And that same spirit of 1851, two hundred years later, was collected by another liberal of pros called José María Aznar, who, through his Royal Decree 1867/1998, amended the Mortgage Regulation — Article 5 — ended with the ban on the registration of the temples dedicated to Catholic worship and allowed the Catholic Church to record a multitude of goods to its name. Because until that time, the temples dedicated to worship were out of the register, because they were goods of public domain, which cannot be acquired simply by using them or because time passes. In 2014, gathering the spirit of those Demostic Campomanes, Mendizábal and Espartero, a former president for you, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, decided to put an end to this royal decree of the year 1998 through a reform of the Mortgage Law. And where there's a pattern, there's no shipping order, and the regulation's gone for nothing. But, just as I had done Aznar with that decree that soon took the Constitutional Court, and that made all Spanish citizens have had to pay off those workers who were dismissed without compensation those amounts that José María Aznar had decided to take them away at the moment, the evil was already done, and you left nothing, they let the Catholic Church write goods in their favor, exactly as it had been three hundred years ago. Yesterday, in the Congress of Deputies, this same non-legislative proposal was rightly debated; I really can promise that neither they did it on purpose, nor did they, but you were curiously debated, and you — as is customary in these cases — voted against, going from the hands of the Catholic Church. May those liberals return, including that progressive liberal that Julio Baroja quoted, and not that based on our reform of the Mortgage Law in 2014, saying: "The total extinction of religious orders is the most gigantic step we have taken in the present era, is the real act of reform and revolution." Today we want to know what your opinion is. The State Government has already given it to you yesterday. We assume that, as you do, as one of our comrades told us before, you are silent for him when President Rajoy says something, you would also vote against, but that's why we ask them questions. What is your opinion that the temples dedicated to Catholic worship remain or not outside the property register? If you consider that the goods dedicated to the Catholic temple may be acquired for possession or not, or if it is necessary to have a title of property? And how many immovable goods have been registered for the first time in Galicia in favor of the Catholic Church since 1998, taking advantage of that real decree of that liberal that now seems ideologically also to leave them to you, because they're too left on the left? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. The vice president and councillor, the public administrations and the judiciary have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vilan, after this story lesson that you have given us, which has also used to call us fools, to say that we don't understand anything, to say, at last, that all this matter is unclear and we are a bunch of carcasses, because of course you give us our posture. Look, it's just that our posture is very simple. It's just that you bring me here, and I come, of course, and you always tell me that I'm telling you the same thing. But it's true. And you, who could and I suppose you're in charge of asking questions about the management of Galician board in your powers in matters of administration and justice, don't do them; we're not doing it so badly. Instead, come here to ask me about the opinion of the Galician Council in the amendments to the regulation and the mortgage law. He says it was debated yesterday in Congress. That's where we have to debate. It's just that if we have to say here whether the mortgage law has to change it or not it has to be changed, then what exactly does Congress have to say? That's where you talk, that's where you talk. And there's been talk of more than that than you say, because in 1998 there was a change, not only of that, but of more things, and derived from a Constitutional Court ruling -- that's what I think you didn't say either -- where it said that, in fact, the Church couldn't be treated as a public law corporation, it had to be treated as a private law subject. And so they had certain properties, those reserved for worship, access to the property register. But it was running a Constitutional Court sentence, Mrs. Vilán. I suppose you know that. He doesn't say it because, then, the ideological construction of always blames the defenders of the Catholic Church, those who were against Mendizábal, those of the erratic priests, those of the PP. So, of course, it's said that a ruling by the Constitutional Court was being executed. Nor does it speak of the year 2015, where a Government, which I don't think was just Mr. Zapatero, said that that privilege that the Catholic Church had of providing what is called "domain certificates", that is, of notoriety, and not having to provide a real title of property in order to access the register of property, that ended up for the Catholic Church. For local authorities, for public administrations, yes, but not the Catholic Church. That's what a PP government said. And you asked that the holiday year be abolished, so that there were no massive registrations, and we said yes. But what are we talking about, if we agree on it, what do you bring here now? What he wants to tell us is that in 1998 he was a government of the PP which has complied with a constitutional ruling and because in 2015 he was again a government of the PP which said that privilege of the Catholic Church could not continue, now bring me here to say what. What do we defend who? We defend the right and also fulfill our powers. And, of course, in the Galician Parliament if we now have to change the mortgage law, I tell you: why exactly is Congress left? I say more: where is the rule of law?, where is the legal order?, what are we talking about? You ask me if you have record of Galician council of how many goods you have registered in Galicia on the property register of the Catholic Church to its name. And as I quote, and I see you're in touch, so in contact that I'm sure you've been told to present this in the autonomic parliaments, and that's why you're presenting it, being faithful to what your party tells you in Madrid. And, hey!, ask him what those who have the competence to really know how many goods the Catholic Church has registered in Galicia and everywhere in the property register. I'll read it because it doesn't know, and if you know it doesn't read it, and as you don't read it, I'll read it myself. He told Mrs. Zaida Cantera, who asked for this at the Congress of Deputies too, the answer was that "The data concerning domain ownership and other real rights about immovable property are not found in the General Directorate of Registers and the Notary"—which is where they could be, and surely they could not be here and are— "dependent on the Ministry of Justice, but on the records of the property in whose constituency the immovables lie, since the registrants of the property are the only officials who have the power to certify what is the result of the books of the register." In this I suppose you'll agree with yourself? "This is due to the territorial organization established by the Mortgage Law, article 1, second paragraph, and implies the responsibility of each registrar of the property of the data they operate in their archives and the advertising they provide. That's why the Government, through the Ministry of Justice, has no data on the registration of the assets of the Catholic Church, when it comes to a matter other than its competences." Imagine ours! "Neither the autonomous or territorial decantations of the College of Property and Mercantis registrators have such data. The advertising of this data must be provided by the registrants holding the respective property registers where the goods may be entered, as is the result of Articles 2.22 and 2.37 of the Mortgage Law and Articles 3, 32 et seq. of the Mortgage Regulation". I say, if you knew this question, and come to ask me how to join Galicia the same thing that the Ministry of Justice can't say, I don't understand anything. And if I didn't know this question and your answer, I don't understand anything either, Mrs. Vilan. In any case, replied. Second question: Does the Greek Government consider that the temples dedicated to Catholic worship should remain outside the register of the property? Listen, what the German Government and the Greeks and the Welsh in general — I suppose, including you too — is what we have to do is comply with the Mortgage Law and regulation. So what you can access, you can access, and what you can't access, you can't access. And it will have to be accomplished regardless of what we consider. Because, of course, if the question now is: do we consider that the laws must be fulfilled? The answer is yes. If you're asking me that question, I hope not. In any case, do you think the Catholic Church has to have privileges as if it were an administration? No, but it's not that I believe it, neither does the government of the PP in the state, which in 2015 -- you didn't say so, of course, as I tell you, if you didn't, you'd fall down all of its arguments -- that's what you said that the domain certifications were finished, that you had to have a title that believed the property, and if not the Church can no longer register. And besides, the holiday is eliminated by law to eliminate the temptation there might be, that I don't know if there was going to be or not talking about the Church, to make massive registrations during the vacation law. So this is our answer. I'm glad that it was a Government in 1998 of the People's Party who had carried out a Constitutional ruling and had said that the Catholic Church is no longer — as you said at that time — privileges of public administration, and I am also glad that it was again a Government of the People's Party who had said, less than a year ago, that the privileges of certifications of property have ended, and if the Catholic Church wants to register, it has to believe that it is the owner and, if not, as any particular one, it cannot register. And if the registration was wrong, that's what the courts are for, who perform their role in the separation of powers, Mrs. Vilán. Of course, if we believe that Parliament is here to value whether laws should be fulfilled, then I don't understand anything and don't tell me or my group. From here, I'm telling you, compliance with the law, mortgage legislation, legislation wherever it is, too. From here, if it's not worth it, come back here again and they call us ideologically "trabucaides" or whatever; we comply with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u169	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor for Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo's replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u170	Mr. Rueda, I don't have to ask anyone for permission to come here or register any initiative. It seems from your speech that you do have or had to ask permission from the Catholic Church to respond to the interpellation we make this morning. By the way, one thing is to interpelate, and we came here, and another thing is not the law propositions. I haven't asked you for anything yet. The only thing I've ever done, the only thing we've done since the Socialist Parliamentary Group are three questions. By the way, the first one you can't answer, you just said. And the other two say what you can access, you can access, and what you can't access, you can't access. It was almost better if I had given a written answer, Mr. Rueda, that it was a written question and that it had given me a written answer. Because, the truth is, the vice president of the board is here saying that he can't answer the first question and that the two seconds are what he can access, he can access, and what he can't access, he can't really access, Mr. Rueda, that they give a little pity those three answers! I didn't call them butter or carcasses. These are two words you just used here, and I didn't use them. You can read the debate later. Neither butter nor carcasses. I said you were "old and reactionary" and "retrographed." You search the Royal Academy dictionary, you search... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] President, I didn't interrupt. I wish they'd let me finish my speech. You search for "retrograde", look for "old" and look for "reactionary" in the Royal Academy dictionary or in the Royal Galician Academy dictionary and sure that "burre" and "carca" are not a synonym, I'm sure not. And it would be very good because I'm sure so, perhaps even reading the dictionary, I could answer these questions that I asked you, some of them; not with funny phrases or saying that you can't answer them. Mr Vice-President, thanks to that reform, which you say was because the Constitutional Court sent them and because you respect the law, the Catholic Church was able to carry out one of the greatest historic booms in Spain, which was registered with the Mosque of Córdoba in its favor, with a name in addition to the "holy cathedral of Córdoba", and for 30 euros. It was thanks to the reform you did in 1998, it wasn't thanks to the reform of no one else. They've had centuries to do it, but they've had to do it thanks to a reform of the year 1998, which you say was forced by the Constitutional Court because you comply with the laws. And he comes to say someone who orders to send e-mails to pressure the lawyers that they do want to comply with the laws. Mr. Rueda, it's a little strange, a little strange. By the way, the culmination of that disarray that was the registration of the Córdoba mosque in favor of the Catholic Church was the source of a question from the People's Parliamentary Group, after 2015, that you decided that the Catholic Church had no privileges in what you just said. His parliamentary group, the municipal group of his party in the Córdoba Council asked a question, because he believed that, in fact, the Catholic Church was legitimized for registration, and asked whether the title of ownership would have to be of the Catholic Church or of the Córdoba Council itself. And they made the secretary of that council have had to issue a report telling his fellow People's Party that it is not enough the documents that the Catholic Church brought at that time to demonstrate its title, that it was a prayer by King Fernando III to a bishop, when the Christians conquered the city, and that therefore you could not go out of the Church's hand to request that the Córdoba mosque be registered, which is the heritage of humanity and therefore is out of the trade of men; you could not register it in your favour. And that's after the year 2015, that you decided exactly the opposite. And it says the report of this secretary of the Córdoba Council that "religious consecration is not a way to acquire property." That's why we asked them if religious consecration for you is a way to acquire property in our country. By the way, from the Galician Parliament we can ask questions that also have to do with state laws, which also apply in our autonomous community, and later, through the motion, of the motion that we then make...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u172	...—now finished, President—we will also be able to urge you not to anticipate that we will urge you from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u173	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. The vice president and president's adviser, public administrations and justice have the turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vilan, first and foremost out of the answer to the question, you're very expert at insinuations and throwing the stone and hiding your hand. I hope what you just said about emails can believe it. I don't even know what you're talking about, but as it is in the Journal of Sessions, I'm going to ask for that record, and I hope you can believe what you just said. I suppose you're not aware of the gravity of what you say, just like you're not aware of many things you say here, but I hope you can believe it because I already say that you're very expert at rocking and hiding your hand, but you stayed in the act. That said, if you want to commit yourself to the inquiry to discuss the registration process in the record of the Córdoba mosque. I have no idea what it was like, but we're talking here in the Galician Parliament about the vicissitudes there was, if I don't know about the Secretary of the Town Hall, if I don't know what about the Córdoba mosque, how much the inscription cost. If you want to talk about it here, Mrs. Vilan. If you believe that the Galician Parliament is for that and not to speak of the powers of the Union in the field of the administration of justice, I am delighted to talk about it. I'm saying I don't know what that process was like, how the Córdoba mosque was registered. You are very interested in the matter, explained it here, devoted almost all the second part of your intervention to talking to us about it. It's good to know those things, because it's good to know everything. But I see that there are more useful things, and I can answer what I can give you. And, of course, if you believe — and I have to read it again — that is what I told you that the Ministry of Justice says that it has no data on the inscriptions of the assets of the Catholic Church because these data only have the registrants and have to supply them in accordance with the regulated situations that the law sets, that is to say that I do not know how to answer your question, because, in fact, I don't know, what do you want me to tell you? I just don't know, because I don't have the data, the law won't let them supply it, it's the registrants' business. Well, nothing, I don't know. And in the second and third I told you that what you can record, you can write, and what you can't, no. In fact, mortgage legislation is based precisely on this: security. It's just nothing but that. Because the publicity that is in doubt, unless it is also believed by the legal means that a good is not well registered and that there is no right, is that it is based on the registration of property and our mortgage system. And so what I can tell you is this: that what allows the law to register is what you can record, and what you can't, no. That's right. When there are privileges that have no justification, the Government of the People's Party comes, whether it's about the Catholic Church or about anyone, it removes them. You've ruled for many years and you've had the opportunity to do all that. But no, it was a Government of the People's Party, Mariano Rajoy, who said: the Church can't take advantage of domain certifications, you have to believe the property, you have to do it. And it was us, Mrs. Vilan. I'm telling you, from there I'm not going to come in, "retrograde", "carca"... you're the one who's here insinuating what we all know, that's what you're going to do, that's what you're going to introduce later with the proposition. Of course, you have the right to comply with the orders that they give you and bring you here and try to insinuate at the national level first in the nation's Parliament and then in every autonomous Parliament that the PP defends the Church. But, chance!, those who take privileges from the Church, at least registrar privileges, it was us. You talk a lot, you put a lot in your face, but then the PP comes up and says the Church has to sign up like anyone, not administration, because it doesn't have the powers that the administration has, because it doesn't represent the public interest as an administration. It's us, it's like it's us. Perhaps, as it is so obvious, that is why you want to bring here this ideological debate, which, in my opinion — I'm sorry to tell you — does not stand at all. If you want to innovate here and make proposals so that you can vote on them at national level, you can do it without any problems. You did it a little while ago. It turns out you brought here a proposal saying that the autonomous community had to pay the VVI of the shift of duty, you had to pay it to the autonomous community, that's what you proposed, like not? If he was then amended at the Congress saying that no one had to pay for it. What do you think we pay that VAT, if not with the taxes of the Greeks? You brought here this proposal that drew the colors in the Congress of Deputies, that they said no. And, in the end, fortunately, he pushed the cord, which is what we defended from the beginning. Not you, who said — I insist — the Greeks paid him with his taxes. And you don't have to pay the EVI in the shift of duty. You moved forward because I don't know exactly what you wanted to do, but it remained in evidence. Just as in my opinion, with all due respect, it was evidenced, not by this, but by what he said about the mails, which I hope he can believe. In any case, and with regard to mortgage legislation, look, ask Mr. Paco Vázquez, who, as far as I know, is still a socialist and speaks of the agreements and says that they have to exist, because if the Catholic Church were not in disequilibrium, and that guarantees its stability. You agree, at least agree to discuss these issues. Because, in the end, if not what they believe is confusion and they get what it was like now in my opinion — I tell you honestly and convinced — to stand out as it was in the shift of duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u175	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the next item on the agenda, which are the questions to the Government. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the demand of the central government for the maintenance of the records of property suppressed in Galicia by Royal Decree 195/2017 of 3 March
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u176	To put the question, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u177	Thank you, President. Mr. Wheel, I don't usually come here to say things if I can't say them, when I say them is because I can say them. Look, you put, not you expressly, because this has to do with property records, so it's also a state rule, but I'm going to have to ask you about a state rule that has to do with justice. By the way, you say I haven't presented any initiatives in justice. You see the initiatives, the number of initiatives that have been presented by this parliamentary group in the Committee on Justice, and you will see what we are asking about, state laws and others that are not. This year, also as a result of a royal decree of the Ministry of Justice and for theoretical reasons of demands of society, they decided in Madrid that Bande and Celanova will have the record in Allariz; that in Ribadavia, Verín and Viana do Bolo will have it in Carballin; Walls in Corcubion; Quiroga in Monforte; The Foundry in Ribadeo; Becerreá in Sarria; and Caldela Bridge in Round. At the moment, they're out of registrar. From here on, the General Directorate of Registers and Notaries will prepare studies for the change in records within three years. It will depend on these studies; studies which, according to the actual decree itself, will be based on official data, if possible, and if not on other duly motivated data. This data, unfortunately, will not be the data provided by the municipalities, because you didn't speak to the municipalities, nor did you speak to the municipalities from Madrid. And so that's how Fegamp himself unanimously approved fifteen days ago, requesting the Ministry of Justice to keep all records of the property that exist today in Galicia open. From Becerrea to Sarria 40 minutes drive. From Walls to Corcubion an hour or so, when Noia is about half an hour or so, and when Walls was up to the present liquidation office. By the way, you haven't talked to the 2,700 people who have presented signatures for record maintenance in the Government Sub-Delegation. From the Founce to Ribbed it for an hour and a half. From Ponte Caldelas to Round it up half an hour. With the roads that we have in Galicia, with our geographical dispersion, with the difficulty of access to public transport, with the aging of our population, less bad than the purpose of reform was to improve citizens' accessibility to public services in the national territory. We suppose it would be from the Danish national territory, because it's very complicated from the German national territory. The Greek Government, as it is a rule that comes from Madrid, has decided to make it dumb, to keep quiet, and they haven't talked to Fegamp, they haven't spoken to the municipalities. I know that the only ones we don't talk about are the ones here, that we don't even talk to the shift of office. And that's why we're asking you if you're going to urge the State Government to maintain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u179	...ten records of property deleted through this royal decree of the year 2017. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. The Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vilan, I'm glad you're starting your speech — I didn't know you were going to touch me again — and I'm glad with a non-small excuse, manifest accusation. But that doesn't take away what he said, and we'll see. But I'm also glad that your intervention is again -- what do you want me to tell you? -- about a state jurisdiction; we have no jurisdiction over records. You ask me again about a state competition, but I'm glad that, at least, it touches more, we're no longer in Cordoba, we're already here, we're already affecting the Greek records, and something we're moving forward, something else I can tell you that on the previous occasion. And what I can tell you is that, first, welcome is your concern. The decree has entered into force, but we've been talking about this since 2013. This is the first time your group has asked this in Parliament. It's fine because we've been trying — and we've been able — to modify the decree, at least the initial planning. What do you want me to say? Yes, I will. Read the decree. It's just that if you read the decree you can't tell me some things you're saying right now, and you can't say they're closing, they're disappearing. Look, they're kept open to the public for all operations that belong to them; all existing registry offices are kept open to the public for all operations that are their own. There's no capital, that is, any log town. "There is no capital" — the decree says — "with currently established record that as a result of this demarcation remains without it." That's what he says. So, do you come here to say they're gone? What's going to have to make big moves? Do you know who's going to have to make the moves? The registries. Actually, if you're worried about the registries, don't try to mask them otherwise. [[Murmurs.]] But, of course, the people who went to the register are going to keep going to that log, which will do the operations. The registrar won't be here. He'll have to move. That's the difference. If this question is a matter of concern to the registries, I certainly don't have it. I have to keep the offices open, I have it because the functions that are being done are still being done, I have it because the Galician board that functioned as tax liquidators continue to work exactly the same, regardless of the regulation. All that, well... you say no, but I say yes. But what I suspect is that you honestly haven't read the decree, you're worried about the registrants, and that's why you ask me this question. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u182	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor for Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u183	Thank you, President. I will not have read the decree, which I have read, of course, to be able to ask the question. But you seem incredible to be the Vice President of the Galician Council and to say here in two questions that are made to him that he has no competence to demand anything from the Government of the State. The truth is, he has to think. [[Applause]] And if you don't have these powers to demand our self-government, after all, ask them for them, because there are other autonomous communities, in particular two, that if they have executive, managerial, registrar appointment and the establishment of registrar demarcations. They decide, they determine the number of logs that will be grouped or created in their autonomous community. One of them is the example that you like most, is Andalusia. Curiously, you can carry out for yourself all the studies necessary to verify your legal reality, you can decide to modify your demarcation, you can decide to collect from the institutions and agents involved the statistics and surveys needed to raise pronouncements to the Ministry of Justice itself. There's nothing. Galicia doesn't have these powers because you don't ask them, because you decide that when it comes to a state-owned law or a state-owned regulation you don't have powers and you can't even open your mouth. That's what I just said here. And that's why our Autonomy Statute -- which I also read -- in Article 26, says that if Galicia can decide on the appointment of the property registrants, so I'm concerned about the extent of concern to the property registrants that each of us can have, because our Autonomy Statute expressly says that we must take into account the geographic characteristics of our population. So we have to paint something. By the way, there is another autonomous community that you also like very much, which is Catalonia, which also has these management skills. It would be nice if you were to copy from Andalusia or from Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u184	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u185	And they ask, or at least if you don't ask, that you don't, because it's already seen that they haven't done so, that they vote for the next initiative we're going to bring here, which is to ask precisely that you ask for these powers just like those two autonomous communities. We just recorded it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u186	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. You have the floor for the Government's reply to the vice president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u187	Well nothing, Mrs. Vilán, we're back in Andalusia. And if we go back to Andalusia, taking advantage of that you also say in your question that the Government of Galician Union has done nothing, I'm going to tell you that since 2013 we're moving on with this issue. You just reacted now, welcome you and your group! You weren't before, or I was, I don't know anymore, the case is that you didn't react, that we're moving. Do you know that the initial writing said that records would be closed under one thousand eight hundred inscriptions? Yes. Do you know who said the number should be down to a thousand? Was it Andalusia? No, Andalusia didn't say anything, it was worth a thousand eight hundred. It was us, it was Galicia, so it stayed in a thousand. Do you know that this is the only criterion and that another criterion has been introduced in this decree, that records have to have passed two calls without any registrar or registrar being interested in covering, that is, in fact they were still vacant, that this had to be a requirement, that it had been shown that it was very difficult for these squares to be covered? [[Applause]] Do you know who asked that requirement to be introduced? Was it Andalusia? No, Andalusia was worth it perfectly. It was Galicia, it was Galicia, the community that did absolutely nothing. It was Galicia, Mrs. Vilán. I almost wish I didn't have those skills, but I really care about something more than the registries. If they have to move, they'll move. I'm worried about you, I'm worried about you as German citizens or Welsh people who live here, but I'm worried a lot more than people can keep having offices without having to move. So I read it again — you say you read it, because then I don't understand anything — "keep open to the public for all operations that are their own," for all operations that are their own, i.e. what they were doing. "There is no currently established register capitality that is left without it as a result of this demarcation." Therefore, operations can continue. That's what the decree says, regardless of whether or not the registrants are displaced. Of course, if you tell me that it turns out that the Galician Board, in addition to the competent adviser in the matter, will withdraw those who had them if the powers of the liquidation office are grouped together, and I tell them you're going to keep them, and you tell me you don't, then you know more than I do, you know more than I do, of course more than you have to know, and then we can't argue, because you're the one who's in charge. It's less bad than the one he's in charge, but today Galicia would be paying for the VVI on duty and, fortunately, we're not paying for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u188	Thank you very much, Vice President. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u189	We turned to the next question for a change in the agenda, Question No. 6678. Question by Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, on the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the continuation of grant grants to support associations for pregnant women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u190	To put the question, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u191	Thank you, President. Today we came to ask you about the help they receive from organizations that are against the right to decide from women, such as RedMadre, who in 2016 received more than 110,000 euros. I'm going to make a preliminary clarification: support for women management is not the object of this debate. We bet because everyone who wants to take forward their management can do it in the best conditions. It's more: we don't comply with the current situation, we think that it needs to be improved and that quality and integral care is given from public administrations. But as I said, this is not the subject of the debate. I preferred to make this clarification to prevent them from giving me an answer by circumventing the subject that concerns us. The question is, why do they dismantle public services, such as the Querote centres, to delegate tasks to delegations such as RedMadre? These organizations offer, under the pretext of counselling, ideological indoctrination; they do not inform us of the options we have, they just want to convince and impose maternity. And I make these statements based on their own statements: Antonio Torres, president of the association, said textually: "Women are pressured to abort, among other things, by the permit laws of abortion"—if we would like to have them—"or by doctors and clinics with spousal reasons." Amaya Azcona, director general of the foundation, went further, and said that "For women it was always better to have a child, who were aborted if they felt very bad, because they broke their personality. They end up taking anxiolytics because they know they've killed the child in their bosom." Another spokesman said that "Legal abortion is the price we pay for being sexually irresponsible, and that this, abortion, is the most machist there is." But these words are not taken out of context, they're not a bad interpretation, because on their own website we can see how they reaffirm themselves. In addition, you accompany them in a report of various medical techniques to carry out voluntary interruptions of pregnancy in a very uncertain way, which remember anything but a medical procedure. I'm not going to play it, but I invite them to open the website, read it carefully, because it has no waste. But they also tell us about all the pain we're going through, about the medical complications that we're going to be able to suffer in a very detailed way. And I'm asking you if you don't think a website is the most appropriate way to provide information on medical procedures. Do you think this is the treatment we need to have information about these types of interventions? I'm sure you know the informed consents, and that these, in addition to taking all the recommendations in writing, must come from verbal information. Medical personnel have an obligation to ensure that the person understands the information. That's why it's more than enough to value the irresponsibility that exists behind this kind of organization. This organization doesn't advise, it doesn't report, what it does is make moral evaluations. That's why the question is very clear: have you thought about the Galician Union still subsidizing associations that are going against the right to choose women freely? And we'd like them to explain to us what are the real reasons they have to do so. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u192	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. The vice president and councillor, the public administrations and the judiciary have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u193	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mrs. Quinteiro, look where, I wasn't going to tell you at all, I wouldn't give you the debate, or I'll do it, about whether we're talking about the support of the management woman or not. I think the debate isn't this, what you're proposing is an ideological debate, which can be summed up, or at least I summarize it like this, in which ideology must be a determining criterion when distributing public subsidies; competitive competition procedures die. It is here that if you agree with what I think, you will receive public subsidies, or if you believe otherwise, if you do not agree with what I think you should think, you will not have the right to receive public subsidies. That's the debate you're raising. And it's good to talk about support for RedMadre, and it's good to talk about any subsidy that is given, because if we want to take this ideological debate to other parts of public activity or the activity that is subsidized with public money, we have enough field. So I'm going to the ideological debate, I'm not going to the specific issue, and I'm telling you that we respect plurality, we respect competitive competition procedures. And if you want me to give you specific data, because I also understand that I have to give you an answer here: last year, in the procedures that were approved, this entity took around 5% of the total money that was distributed. I'm sure other organizations with absolutely opposite ideology and contrary to what this entity stands for have also been money recipients. I'm sure, but I don't know, because those who had to share it came to objective criteria, because that's the competitive competition. That's to say, if you think like I do, and if you don't think like me dry stick, that of course this government won't. This is done in other places, in other continents, in other latitudes, and so it goes. It doesn't contain this government to do that. The Bipartite didn't even do it when he was ruling, because it turns out these entities were also carrying money. I don't understand what was going on then. Perhaps, I want to think that they also understood that competitive competition is a guarantee of democracy. And we, of course, while we're here, are very glad to know that we're preventing you from doing what you're proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u194	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor to reply to Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u195	The right to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy is that, a right, and these organizations are against a fundamental right. So it's not a question of matching or disagreeing, which, of course, we disagree with what they promote. But they're against a fundamental right. And you're standing by to be able to get through the back door what you couldn't do through the front door. You tried, Mr. Gallardón had the prime minister to reform the abortion law, but they were unable, people went out to the street, mobilized against this abortion law reform, people also managed to resign Minister Gallardón. So, now that they haven't been able to put it through the front door, they use friendly organizations; they're friends and they're up against arguments or people. I'm only going to mention one of your presidents, Mr. Benigno Blanco, you know him, right? He was Secretary of State of the Government of Aznar, president of the Spanish Family Forum and is now vice president of RedMadre, curious coincidences! You use these organizations to make ideology, to make ideological indoctrination, not to defend the management women. I'm glad you didn't get the debate on that issue, because they'd get into many... [[Murmurs.]] You can't talk like that. At the very least, I would ask them to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u196	Look, excuse me for a moment. I'd like everyone to respect the person she's talking about. And when I say they're all. So, please listen carefully to the person you're talking to, and the others too. Thank you very much. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u197	You are doing draft laws with utterances that seem neutral, assumed by all, such as the Law that establishes and regulates a network of support for pregnant women or the Law of support for the family and coexistence of Galicia, but in practice these laws are only serving to perpetuate the image of women with a unique and irremediable destiny: motherhood. And we, of course, in this House and in every place on the street, will again mobilize ourselves so that a fundamental right, as is the right to voluntarily interrupt our pregnancy, will not be diminished in any of the circumstances. And if they wanted to defend the women of the management, they wouldn't close the centers of Love You, they wouldn't close the COPs, they wouldn't reduce the attention to public health. So, that's really defending women management, not what these organizations do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u198	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u199	...that all they do is mobilize against a fundamental human right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u200	Thank you very much. You have the floor for the Government's reply to the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Quinteiro, it is only too bad that I wouldn't take the debate there. Well, finally, I won't. [[Laughter]] And I'll tell you again that plurality lives. I don't want anything, honestly, that any one of my group had asked a question like the one you're asking, protesting because organizations — as I said before — with totally contrary ideology, and there are them and I'm sure that they are subsidized, that you're talking about, and the Galician Union turns out to have given them money because they thought they met the conditions. I wouldn't like anything, but I'm sure you won't, because in that we're also very different. And I'm glad it does. We believe in plurality. That is a fundamental right, that each one defends what he believes, and meets the conditions for access to public money that he does, and if not, no. And it doesn't have to look like ideology, or if I get better because you think like me, or I fall worse because you think like those who don't think like me. You do that, you confuse everything. And let me tell them this is how it goes, so it goes, and I'm angry with them in a very long time because this country isn't like that. And everyone has the right to have an opportunity to do what they believe. And if public administrations think they meet the conditions -- to receive their help, even if they defend the opposite postulates. We're very different. And we have the right to be all, and that is democracy, Mrs. Quinteiro. By the way, the centers I love you have not disappeared, you are well informed, but, in any case, the sixty entities who have received public money to develop their activities under this order, and who will probably receive them in this year's call, which certainly increases almost 3%, there is absolutely absolutely everything, fortunately! Of course, if there were only one way to think, this would be a sick society. Fortunately we're not a sick society, nor are we going to let you try to get yourself sick and not be as healthy as I think you are, at least in these things. Amplitude of glances, Mrs Quinteiro, because if it doesn't start like this, it ends up getting the ones we consider enemies, acting for ideological reasons, ending up protesting the informer because it makes uncomfortable questions and I don't like them, and it probably ends up — as your friends once said — smoking in the bathroom and taking the administrations of jokes. [[Murmurs]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u202	Thank you very much, Vice President. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Greek Government regarding the maintenance of the socio-sanitary use of lands of the former residence of Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u203	Let's move on to the next question. To make it speak to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u204	Thank you, President. Resolves the doubt of who would not answer this question that we had yesterday, and excuse the joke, we asked you, Counsellor, today for a question that concerns especially and much in Lugo City, and that is what will happen to the buildings that housed the old residence, in disuse — as you know — after the opening of the new hospital, the HULA. From these buildings it was said over the last few years, that it would host a CAP, giving a transfer to what we currently have in the Fingoi district, the only one we have in the city of Lugo. That was promised in March 2012 by that health adviser, Rocío Mosquera. So they also committed themselves to creating a health centre to meet the needs of the population of the Milagrosa neighbourhood, which, as you know, currently has a single health centre to which three thousand people are enrolled, and is absolutely overwhelmed. Five years ago, it was said here in 2012, that those works of recovery of the old residence and works to improve that infrastructure were imminent. Five years have passed and nothing was known. In 2015, the manager of Sergas said that they would study again the feasibility of being able to deploy this Miracle Health Center. Nothing yet. In September 2016, during the election campaign, the president of the Union committed to creating an enterprise centre directed at the aeronautical industry, linked to the industrial pole they have in Rozas, and at the same time re- The same election promise campaign after campaign. Finally, what we see is that the idea you're talking about is to provide the Spanish police in Lugo with a new police station installed in that infrastructure. An initiative that — you know and is known to our position — we do not support, because we understand that the Galician Union does not have to serve as a real estate agency to the Ministry of the Interior, and less when we have health care needs in the city. For sure you were accompanied at that meeting by Mrs. Elena Candia, who as we all know is president of the People's Party in Lugo, and Mr. José Manuel Barreiro, also leader of the People's Party, in this case a voice at the Senate. We don't know too well that it was due precisely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u205	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u206	...that these people were accompanying you in the negotiations. The question is simple and direct: will the socio-sanitary use of the lands of the former residence be maintained, which is a sine qua non condition for the development of the health centre of the Miracle? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u207	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Mr. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u208	I will try to tell you three questions: the first, that this government has always been concerned and busy giving a viable and useful solution to the old land of residence. I think we have some experience in using large equipment in Lugo, because you remember it was a PP government who first pushed the construction of the new Lugo hospital, Lucus Augusti. And it was also this current PP government, prioritizing performances with more than twenty-five million euros in times of very weak cows, who had to equip and put into operation to enjoy the citizens of Lugo from a 21st century hospital. So I think it's quite clear what this government's commitment to Lugo's health is to drive that construction and subsequent equipment. The second question I want to highlight is that the stage at which we are now is different. And what we're now trying to find is a viable, useful and agile solution to these residential lands. There's no doubt in him the slightest effort this government will make. It's a solution that, of course, will include new socio-sanitary uses, but that will go much further. You just mentioned yourself, because in that we are antithetics about you, that we do believe there is more than enough space so that a modern building of a fundamental service can be built, as is what the National Police provide. In fact, I myself met in Madrid with certain people, representatives of both the National Police and the General Treasury of Social Security. And what I can tell you is that what I've detected is the police's interest in continuing this project and the willingness of the General Social Security Treasury to facilitate the whole process, because, as you know, we have to do something very similar to what we've just done with Vigo's old hospital, because there has to be a backlog file and an immediate assignment for new uses, among which the socio-sanitary will follow. So we're in a new phase. And what we're trying to do is to make it easier to try to make this action financially viable so important that it deserves the citizens of Lugo, especially those of the Residence. So there will be socio-sanitary uses. Some of them have already advanced them, and I can also tell you that even some more. That's what we're working on, but I'd rather bring concretes, which in very little time will be materialized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u209	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u210	Thank you, President. I think I just reported different dates of how we were told in 2012, in 2015 and more recently in 2016 that these socio-sanitary uses would be maintained and that this new health center would be opened to decongested what we have in the Miracle neighborhood, but we also have to say that The Residence remains in the same situation. There wasn't any kind of performance on the part of the German Government. We continue with the saturated Miracle Health Center and, of course, must I believe his word after we believe it in 2012, in 2015 and more recently, I repeat, in 2016? All we see is that it's taking shape, it's unique and exclusively transferring the police station to a space. From our point of view — we have repeated — we have never been in favour of either the Council of Lugo or this Parliament that this former residence has hosted the police station for a basic reason, and that is that we understand — and I said it in my first intervention — that there are more urgent health care needs than giving the police a new job space. The Ministry of the Interior may seek another space — because it has other possibilities — to give the police station an incubation. What we want to be clear about, that tells us clearly, is whether this health center is going to be opened; if that old residence is going to accommodate the new health center for the Miracle; when it is going to be done; if in the framework of these negotiations, the socio-sanitary uses of the residential district will be maintained; when the studies and works that were necessary to enable this space to be directed to a new health center are being started; and if the idea of that by the aeronautical industry that we were also told about in the election campaign remains maintained. How are there going to live spaces as diverse as a health center, offices for unmanned aircraft and the Spanish police themselves inside a space where I don't know if they've ever been on occasion but I don't know what's going on for everything?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u211	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u212	I don't know if you can explain anything to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u213	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You have the Government's reply, Mr. Farmer's Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u214	I will try to clarify your concerns, which I am concerned about are the concerns of the citizens of Lugo and, within them, also those of the residents. Four questions I wanted to highlight. A viable, useful, axile and global solution. It is viable because, as you well know, speaking and not having funding to carry out the proceedings would be a mistake, and that is why we do not commit ourselves, at least in this government. Others, when they had to perform certain performances in Lugo, what they left was an unfinished, unequipped hospital. Useful; useful for the citizens of Lugo, first of all, but, secondly, also useful for the people who live in the Residence; a neighborhood that well deserves consideration and in which from the use that is intended to give to the current buildings and lands that there are there can live harmoniously, and among them, some of the issues that have been brought forward by you, which are only to collect what has been formulated by this government. And thirdly, global, because, indeed, we believe that in this piece there is a socio-health issue which is fundamental. That's why, too, you know, within the Council of Health, in particular, in Sergas, you've already had quite advanced what would be a preliminary draft of uses, which would be rooted above all in what could be the Mother's Hospital. But you also know very well that there is a small building that currently has psychiatric uses — two mental health units, it seems to me to remember, and also a few workshops — that will happen to be also within what is the current Materno. For what? To use this remaining building, which is also catalogued, for employment issues, which we are paying rents, because all this is within the Zero Rental Plan that I was referring to yesterday, among other matters. But we also want to act on another. There's enough space. Please note that there are approximately 48,000 meters built right now. You don't need to get to 48,000 to clear that structure there, especially where it's added to the Mother Hospital, which, if it's not catalogued, the normal thing is to rule out the current immovable and build a new one, which will be above all a future solution for the autonomous community, like the Rocks Pole. Other graces removed their group when the whole theme of Rozas began, which is a reality today and which we hope to consolidate, but will also go into other kinds of administrative matters. So in agility is where we are right now, knowing very clearly that this process of regression and assignment leads to some parameters that will have to occur. But I don't hide from you that it will take a month, as it has happened at Vigo Hospital, that today is already completely destroyed a part and is already begun to be the new City of Justice. Therefore, a global and modern project and a process that well deserves Lugo's citizenship and which well deserves the residential area to dynamize the area. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u215	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the position defended by Galicia in the General Commission of the Autonomous Communities of the Senate on the need for a social and political state pact for education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u216	To put the question, Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u217	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Last Monday, 27 March, a meeting of the General Commission of the Autonomous Communities of the Senate took place in which a monographic debate on the social and political pact for education took place, in which the different autonomous communities, through their representatives, approached positions or defended which were the positions of each of these autonomous communities towards the elaboration of this future covenant so demanded by society. From the People's Parliamentary Group we understand that it is of interest to know which are the subjects of debate discussed in this session and also to know by first hand what was the position that, in this case, from Galicia and represented by its cultural, educational and Universitary ordination adviser, was defended at this session by the General Committee of the Autonomous Communities of the Senate to reach what is Galicia's position towards this education pact. So the question is very simple, and we would like to know what position Galicia defended in the General Commission of the Autonomous Communities of the Senate with regard to the need for a national pact in education. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, first of all, I would like to celebrate the political moment in which we are in education, since we are addressing one of the major challenges in this country's democratic history, which has been trying to achieve an educational pact that basically enables the whole of society, which enables all the political forces and ultimately the entire educational communities to have a constant spinal axis over time, that in some way they are not changing according to each government and that gives stability to a system that in recent years and in recent decades has experienced a constant succession of organic laws, promoted — yes, all at least one — fundamentally by the Socialist Party. In fact, Galicia's position in this regard, in the first place, is to welcome the fact that we can be debating this issue in different forums. Indeed, on 27 March I had the opportunity to participate in the General Commission of the Autonomous Communities in the field of the Senate to pose the vision of Galicia, and — I insist — the posture of Galicia, not of any political formation, but of the position of the Government of Galicia, of the Government democratically elected in Galicia, about what we believe must be the education pact in the future. And obviously we don't start from zero, we don't start from zero, we already have a number of basic axes on the table, 15 basic axes -- 10 in the non-university and 5 in the university -- which are, to some extent, focusing the political debate so that we can boost this education pact. Galicia, obviously, has been working since institutional loyalty, but it's also always working on the representation and defense of Galicia's legitimate interests. And in this sense, some of these basic axes, many of which are linked to preagreements or agreements signed at their time between Citizens and PSOE, and later between Citizens and the People's Party, have even reached general agreements in the area of Congress of Members. Starting from this situation, Galicia what it does is a series of approaches that we understand are important. And basically, our approaches are aimed at promoting the permanence of the student in the system; it's something that we're very concerned about. And how? Basically by considering — and so on — a series of itineraries and flexible curricula for those students with special educational needs or who have complex family situations so that certifications can be made that believe the skills and also the knowledge of these people, also achieving and seeking that students aged 18 or even 18 are within the education system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u220	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u221	...and trying to reduce school dropout as much as possible, so that no student will leave the education system without a degree. Finally, we've also been thinking about providing our experience on those issues where we understand we have had good results over these years and we're also paying attention to those issues...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u222	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u223	...that other autonomous communities can think of and also serve to improve our teaching. In any case, we're considering Galicia's position and we're working since loyalty, always defending the interests of the autonomous community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u224	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u225	Thank you, President. Counsellor, first of all, I want to thank you for your answer. He let in his first intervention which, of course, the future social and political pact on education in Spain has already defined a series of basic lines or axes, which must be those that go, in some way, clarifying the path to which this pact has to go. And in that sense, I would like, firstly, to highlight, on the one hand, that we have shared many of the approaches that have been made from Galicia for the incorporation into this future education pact. We understand that the experience of the Welsh education system, which is referred to by the good results in the Pisa report, for the good results of early abandonment — which we have also had the opportunity to know and talk about in this House — is now a reinforced position and which, therefore, Galicia has enough to say when it comes to drawing up and determining which key points of this pact will be. But, as I said before, we would also like to know — since in this forum of dialogue if you are producing a multi-directional relationship between the different autonomous communities, the different components of the educational community, and, ultimately, all the social and political agents involved in the educational fabric — which are those basic axes or fundamental lines on which you are turning the whole discussion around the achievement of this social and political pact for education. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. For the Government's reply, the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I have to say that the current Education Pact already consists of a series of forums, I think open and plural, where the whole educational community is participating, and where even many organizations linked to educational communities here in Galicia are participating. And I refer primarily to three: firstly, in the area of Congress, there is a subcommittee created by political agreement that basically discusses more political issues; in the Senate's ruling, there is a presentation, also within the General Commission of the Autonomous Communities, in which the issues linked to the different territorial areas that make up the whole of the State are dealt with basically; and also, in turn, there is a body in which these autonomous communities are represented and we are giving our vision of how this situation should be posed, which is the Ministerial Sector Conference. And, within the Sector Conference, we also have the General Commission, where we are considering — and so there was a final agreement at the last Sector Conference — in this area the role that autonomous communities should play, well thinking about the subject of the sub-committee well in the area of the presentation. But I'm going back to what I said in the previous answer. From Galicia we understand that, from the scope of the Government, we are representing the legitimate interests of Galicia, because at the bottom we are a democratically elected government. And, of course, we have largely defended the educational model that we have been implementing in recent decades within the scope of our skills in Galicia; an educational model that has made it possible to achieve good results in different variables, both in Pisa reports and in a data from which we are very proud, which is in the progressive reduction of early school dropout, which is undoubtedly one of the most anti-equitable data that can exist, that students go out on the street without any type of qualification and without any type of school certification. So one of the important points that we put on the table is to get a school dropout as little as possible and that there are certifications. And with respect to vertebral axes, as I said, there are five. They're not closed, obviously, but they're discussing them because we understand that the pillars of a good educational system are 15, 10 in the pre-university and 10 in the university. They tell us about early schooling; they tell us to seek the completion of compulsory teaching; they also tell us to adapt post-war training to the needs of the student; they tell us to promote the teaching of vocational training, to adapt the needs of the productive sectors to the employability of students; they also tell us to update curricula to pedagogical methodologies; they also tell us to adopt the educational responses of the centres; of the autonomy of the centres; they talk about promoting ICTs in teaching; they also talk about promoting multilingual teaching; they also provide centres with tools to be able to innovate; they also tell us to ensure the social and professional recognition of the teacher; they also tell us to evaluate — important questions — the student's result and the functioning of the system as essential factors to improve quality; and they also tell us, in the university, to improve what is the educational offer, to link it to productive sectors, to overcome also the models and the model of financing, to improve the results; to the educational results; to examine us, to improve the educational results. I mean, they tell us about a series of very broad, very diverse questions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u229	...that will enable, if we are able — I insist — to reach basic agreements, a line of work that will undoubtedly improve our education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u230	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the actions planned by the Government of Galicia in the face of the evident contradiction between the new criteria for financing of concerted education and the equal education plan of the Union of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u231	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u232	Good morning, Counselor. We bring this question here today because, as you know, just two weeks ago, your board launched the new order that will refuse public funding from private centers in our country from next year. You will remember, Mr. Román, that it is not the first time that we brought this matter to this plenary, but what a few months ago were quite well-founded fears, today become evidence. The Government of the People's Party insists on continuing to fund the centres that separate the student. Once again, the words go on one side and the facts by the side of the front, and not just that anymore, but some words go on one side and the other on the other. So they say one thing, but they decree the opposite. We can check this if we contrast the Equality Action Plan at the Galician Educational Centres 2016-2020 and the Order of March 14, 2017; an order that enshrines differentiated education, making it disappear as a preferred object for educational concerts the development of the principle of co-education at all educational stages, as you established in the previous orders of 2009 and 2013. For this government co-education is no longer important. That would mean, among many other things, that they change their mind very quickly, because, as I said, the Education Equality Plan is only one year old; a plan in which they talk up to 58 times about the importance of co-education. We can quote one of them at random, like the first one, in which it's said to co-education involves educating without distinguishing messages based on sex. What a thing! It turns out we didn't make this up, it wasn't an occurrence of En Marea, but you wrote it -- as I said -- just a year ago. But do you know where they were talking about co-education? In the campaign. In the program we don't know, because, frankly, it's impossible to find the education program with which they were presented to the elections, it's impossible to find it on the web; they may have a lot to hide or we can't find it. And, in this Parliament, every time they are asked about their commitment to equality, you win that equality plan that is now on a wet paper. Just as in his turn he can explain to us this incomprehensible change of criteria. Unfortunately, it is not the only change that brings us this order, dictated to apply, as students applied, the precepts of LOMCE; a law that knows perfectly that it will fall, however hard they try to resist it. With it they also extended the duration of concerts from 4 to 6 years, but this law established that this duration was only for primary. And here you are, indeed, generous; since private education is always generous, and extending it to special education, to vocational training, which means that all concerts signed in this country will last until August 31, 2023, or what is the same, half of the following legislation. They want to leave everything tied up and well tied up for their friends, it's not gonna be that things don't go out the way they want. We know how good it is in that grey area of the concerts. Let them ask Granados and the 900,000 euros he put in his pocket with each concert. But, well, more news: private school funding increases...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u233	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u234	...in 10%, different from what happens in public schools. We know that recovery goes through neighborhoods. In view of this situation, we were asked: what will the Government of Greece do in the face of the most obvious contradiction between this order and what was supposed to be the commitment to the co-education they established in the Equal Education Plan?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u235	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. To answer that, you have the floor of the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Chao, I understand that you — and when I say you do not say it personally, I say it as a political group — respect the Constitution, understand it — if it does not respect it is another issue — and that it respects the great international bodies, such as UNESCO, or that it respects the fulfilment of the current legislation and the binding legal framework, which respects it, and I suppose you too will respect the freedom of families, the individual freedom of individuals. We understand that you respect it, because if you don't respect it, we could really talk very little. And what I just told you, the Constitution, the legal framework and the freedom of families, of individuals, is something we are doing from the point of view of educational concerts with centers that, in this case, do not segregate, but give a differentiated education based on gender as a pedagogical and educational modality more, where families go absolutely freely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u237	Sorry, I think we demanded a little bit about the people who were talking and who had listened to the rest. I ask you to listen to all Members who are speaking to; all, as I said before, to one side and others. Thank you very much. You can go on, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u238	I, when I talk about vigorous legality, I'm not only talking about LOMCE, I'm talking about LOE, in which it's said that teaching in differentiated education is not segregating at any time; I'm also talking about other legal frameworks, such as UNESCO, which says there's no discrimination in teaching separated by gender; and I'm talking about judgments by the Supreme Court. I can understand that you don't like it and that you even thought that people should be forced to choose on the basis of article 27 of the Constitution whether or not to go to an educational center. It is their way — I will not say totalitarian — of seeing the world, of interpreting people's freedom to choose their children's educational system. But what is true is that there is a legal framework, there is a case law and there is an individual family freedom to access one educational center or another. And here's one thing, and that's also, in the end -- and in conclusion -- you're starting from a mistake. You leave, Mrs Chao, a mistake that says co-education is equal to mixed education. Coeducation goes far beyond mixed education or gender-differentiated education. We are basically talking about educating in values, with respect to others, respecting the weak. That's co-education, which goes far beyond the gender difference. Look, you, in the end, what you're thinking is your vision, which you can understand. I also want to tell you that you finally introduced into the debate, although it was not formulated in the initial question, step 4 to 6 years. Look, what Galicia does has made other autonomous communities, and they are doing so autonomous communities like Asturias, like the Basque Country, like Balearics, where I understand that these reasonings are so correct because they will also apply to their left-wing fellows who are ruling in these autonomous communities, and to those who also ruled here in Galicia in the past, where, when they ruled, they kept and paid the educational concepts to this kind of center...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u239	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u240	...no problems of any kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u241	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u242	Bipartite, Andalusia, Balearic, Catalonia, nothing. The answer could be nothing. Because the question of what they're going to do to match the two regulations, the answer is nothing. Because talking about equality is very good, but making policies that promote it, that's for another day. Do you know what would be desirable? That at least they had the honesty enough to withdraw the Equal Plan from the schools. Take it away, because if it's wet paper, they'd be much more honest saying they've expired, that the measures you've included there are no longer convincing them, and that, indeed, they're now the other thing. They are, for example, continuing to increase the business of public education and are financing the educational centres that divide; no, they do not segregate, they differentiate, they separate; ultimately, the children on one side and the children on the other. There's no need for the girls to sew and the kids to dig, but well, that's for another day. Of course, contrary to the criterion of any pedagogical advance and, of course, contrary to the criterion of any equal specialist. If you have only one data from an expert or an equal expert who says that segregation is positive, I invite you to bring it in. And we can make a lot of turns, up to infinite, they can try to confuse and excuse themselves, but the facts define us. There is not a single article — you know it perfectly — in the Spanish Constitution which confers the right to a concerted education. And, on the remote case of him, you know? You'd have to change it. But there's no, there's no. It's just a lack of reality. The name of freedom is their excuse to put the market in public education, it's nothing else; what is consecrated is the right to education, just as for everyone, for children and for children, and that's not going to be possible when there are schools where children go to classes and girls go to other schools. He said, "What did you commit to? That's what's hard to know. They're always excused that they have the legitimacy of the polls, and it's true, but what did they commit to, with the equality plan or with what they did afterwards? Because, I insist, in the Equality Plan, you yourself said co-education was one of the most useful and powerful tools to end...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u243	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u244	...unequality. But not just that, just a week ago in this Parliament, when the Plan on Gender Violence was debated, it was stressed that the co-educational model should be reviewed. Maybe we don't understand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u245	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u246	...and it wasn't to review it, it was to liquidate co-education forever.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u247	Thank you very much, Mrs. Chao Pérez. He has the Government's reply to the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u248	Mrs. Chao, first of all, I'm sorry that you have such a limited view of education, co-education and also education. And, of course, you say that freedom of education is not in the Constitution. Home!, read article 27; the 27, you can surely tell your head of line. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You read article 27 of the Constitution, where the freedom of the families of the educational model is enshrined. By the way, it was a German minister, Minister Otero Novas, who put this issue in motion. But, well, I think you don't agree, from a political point of view, with a differentiated teaching, and I respect it. Now, what you cannot question is that there is a legal and legal framework that supports this modality of teaching, which is the Constitution in Article 27, is the different laws, some of which are promoted by the area on the left, such as LOE and LOMCE, and the Supreme Court's own judgments, which also support it, as long as there is no discrimination in what is taught in a field or elsewhere. Another thing is that kids in class are studying math and girls are studying something else, but that's what you know is a lie. Or, imagine, children do physical education in the courtyard and girls in a pavilion. That would be discriminatory, but it's discriminatory. But you have a very biased and confused vision, because this kind of center, by the way, are tremendously limited centers in Galicia; we're talking about 99.64% in Galicia going to mixed schools, with which, obviously, you're assuming and making an association that doesn't have a direct relationship. But, I insist, your political opinion is very respectable, we respect it, you have an opportunity to defend it, but what I insist on is that co-education is absolutely compatible with gender-differentiated education. These are clearly legitimate issues. Legally they are based on a fundamental issue, the freedom of families to choose the educational model of their children. If you ever question this constitutional basic principle, I think you have a problem with respecting the law and respecting the freedom of families. [[Murmurs.]] And I say it clearly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I also clearly say that one thing is teaching differentiated by gender, where the fundamental values that must be transmitted and which are in the formative curricula, and another thing is gender equality. How do we promote gender equality? Through a lot of measures. You know them. We must teach respect, give values in the educational system of respect, of the weak, of not abuse, and that all people have rights and duties. And just as all people have rights and duties, there also exists, because there is a legal framework. Another thing is when there are other political forms that change it, but as long as there is a legal framework that allows such centres to exist, we can't generate discrimination against families who freely choose an educational model.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u250	And I insist, the educational concepts are regulated by a left-wing government, by a left-wing government! They're protected by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u251	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u252	...and they're kept in autonomous communities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u253	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u254	...financed on the left, which also finance these types of centres. And what you do is it's a dissociation where you try to mix everything, mix education with gender equality, and ultimately gender equality is people's equality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u255	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u256	...in rights and duties, and also that there is no kind of discrimination or abuse by being a man or a woman or by having a physical or mental disability or any kind of disability. We have to respect people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u257	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u258	...a lot beyond your model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u259	Thank you very much. Question by Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and seven other Members of the G.P. Galician people, about the number of families that have benefited from the birth aid plan since its inception
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u260	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u261	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, on March 7 you came here, in this Parliament, to explain the strategic lines of your department towards the next four years. In his speech he indicated as one of the fundamental axes of performance support for families, especially families with children, families with middle incomes, single-parent families and numerous families. In the area of family, childhood and demographic dynamization, you pointed out that in this legislation, and according to the objectives of the Strategic Plan of Galicia, the priority was to continue with the improvement of social services directed at families and minors, as well as to promote reconciliation. At the end of 2015, the Galician Union launched the birth support plan. A plan that had various measures, including the Welcome Card, the Care Bonus, the Council Bonus or other kind of conciliation measures. So today, Counsellor, we want to know what the balance you've taken since you set up this birth support plan, and how many families have benefited from it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u262	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. The Social Policy Counsellor, Mr. King Varela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, ladies and gentlemen, President Feijóo and all his government, we have an inescapable commitment to the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks. The NAP, the birth aid plan, has three fundamental axes of action. The first package of measures has to do with economic incentives, with economic aid. The second block of measures has to do with the support for conciliation, as a fundamental element that has a direct impact on birth. And the third block of action has to do with the part of the services; of the services through which it is easier to have a family, it is easier to reconcile. Within this plan, there is a background goal that responds to all the blocks, which is the revitalization of the population, also one of the fundamental axes of the Government of the Strategic Plan of Galicia, where this program of birth support began, as you formulated, in 2015. In the set of measures set out in the plan, I can give you the data of beneficiaries, of 38,000 new families who have benefited from the NAP in Galicia. As for economic support, the most prominent measure is the Welcome Card, which we have just extended to 2017 and increase its recipients. Those families who are in custody of a child for adoptive purposes can also benefit at the moment of the card. So far, 15,112 families have benefited from this measure, for which we approve a multiannual expenditure of EUR 18 million, precisely to respond to the economic commitments of the card. In addition to the measure of the Welcome Card, as you know, we have maintained tax deductions — the highest in Spain — for the birth of children. In the conciliation section — also a fundamental instrument — thanks to the NAP we have increased the resources and services of conciliation, with 30 children's houses, and we have already announced another 30 this year, for rural municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants. We continue to expand also the squares of the Network of Child Schools held with public funds in Galicia, and we have a total of 22,439 squares available to families. We are located in 38% of the ratio, far above — as you know — of the European Union's demand. And in the service section, to quantify you two other NAP news...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u264	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u265	... launched in 2015, the PAN Council and the PAN Care, with 2,670 families benefited in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u266	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor to reply to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u267	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, today we have brought this question here, to the Galician Parliament, because we want to know how the situation is and how the birth support plan is being implemented, because we are responsible for what is happening right now in many families throughout our community, so we do not change our position. In Galicia we have a demographic problem and we have to act the way the Galician Union is doing. We continue to think that we must go ahead, develop this programme of birth support and complement those measures envisaged in it. We are still in the same position — I would point out — because there are other parliamentary groups that in certain forums recognize that Galicia has a demographic problem, but then, publicly, they do not agree with those measures of the Birth Support Plan. But don't worry, because they're the same ones that discovered the secret formula of Coca-Cola. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So keep going, Counselor. [[Applause]] We believe that this legislation is fundamental to increasing these measures of reconciliation and support for birth, and that Galicia, families and minors need it. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u268	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. For the Government's reply, the Social Policy Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, I have answered the question raised. We believe it is an important step to have effectively supported by names and surnames, 38,000 families in Galicia through a program. I would therefore like to take advantage of the question to thank the entire staff of the Social Policy Council for the intense work of putting in place many new measures, of working towards the fate of many new public funds that exist precisely to support families and support birth in Galicia. As you say, I don't even believe that there is a magic formula, which is clear that we have to deepen these three measures that form part of the NAP in Galicia: economic measures, conciliation measures, measures of non-discrimination of women and measures relating to services. We've done a lot. Of course, 38,000 families helped with the NAP, I think it's a very positive fact. But we're also very aware that there's still a lot to do. We precisely published in the Official Journal of Galicia this Monday the dependent child benefits of less than 3 years, 360 euros for the first son or daughter, 1,200 euros for the second or second and 2,400 euros for the third and next. We also have to address special situations in this new legislation, I'm referring to families that have a higher level of difficulty; I mean single parents and monomantals, which we think require specific plans that we will develop, without any doubt, and continue to expand much more services. As you know, the objective of legislation is that the 313 municipalities in Galicia have conciliation resources. We're going the right way, but, as I say, we still have a lot to do. I hope and hope that with everyone's effort, all administrations and all political groups, we can move forward on a very important goal, on a country objective, so that Galicia is increasingly a community that is characterized by its vocation and its social commitment. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u270	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the concrete measures taken or planned by the Galician Union to defend the land and jobs affected by the sex extraction projects promoted by Erimsa in the municipalities of Frades, Mesía, Oroso and Ores
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u271	To put the question, Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The company Erimsa, a subsidiary of the Norwegian Elken, integrated in the Chinese Blue Star, has four mining plans in the Orders Bisbar to extract metallurgical sex, three research permits and one granting of publicly exposed holdings. The threat of 6,721 acres, most of them land, in an area that lives mainly of the livestock, is manifest. They are high-productive land, with dairy farms, some ecological, which end products of great prestige and of which nearly 600 workers and workers depend; all of them, the land, improved with public money in the parcel concentration, the CAP etc. The extractive system consists of raising the flower of the earth and amorella, then searching for the cross by climbing to another land in situ, using for that heavy machinery that calls the clays and damage the aquifers, lowering them at the level. At the end of the process, the cross is taken, or part of it — it is the new blue gold — the flower of the earth rests, remaining the fine and beautiful farm. That's yes, much lower level, with the horizon of the undefined earth, seriously altering drainage and direct productivity. It'll produce something again as long as it's injected with nitrogen in the vein; i.e., I've cleaned the top. In the first storm, the water rests on the surface and the ground does not retain moisture etc. That is, the ground, the living organism that produces life, does not breathe, has changed its texturel porosity, fruit of millions of years, by a structural porosity fruit of waving the horizons, vary the spongy by excavation and compaction by the use of heavy machinery. We speak of silicon, the new blue gold, and this one that occupies us is of extraordinary purity. We're talking about extremely aggressive mining systems, owning colonial exploitations of the past. And all because? Well, clarine, here are the calculations: Erimsa pays the owner, for a hectare, 3,120 euros. It extracts 2,700 tons, at least, which generate an asset of 25-30 million euros per hectare, a million above, a million below. Repeat: colonial monopoly. Whoever is responsible for answering this question, in the BNG we believe you have something to say in favour of the inherited land, in favor of the permanence of more than 500 jobs, in favor of the continuity of sustainable wealth, of the permanence of this work generated by nature and the sweat of the ancestors, which is our balanced soil that has provided us, provides and must provide us with sustenance. Were you going to allow this outcome with top-quality agricultural land? Do you not speak — and you spoke to the Middle Rural Counsellor the other day — of the sossibility, of the territorial base, of the middle, of the rural legislation? Of what?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. Cruz. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u274	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas, I don't know where the coherence of the BNG is. Today the BNG asks the president for rural, and you bring up a question related to rural, because mining is also about rural, as long as it's responsible mining and environmentally sustainable mining. I am therefore greatly surprised at that lack of coherence. As always, you're in a hurry. Always trying to go ahead of the administration itself and always trying to go ahead of compliance with the regulations. Always. What I have to tell you is that this government is with the countryside. And I also have to tell you that this government is in mining. And I also have to tell you that this government is with industry. This government is with the economy, it is with the job and therefore it is with the sustainable economy. And of course we're also supporting a region that is a whole territory from the point of view of agribusiness, and of course we're defending the region of Orders! Mr. Rivas, you will agree with me that it would be good to enter into a context of compliance with the law, especially if you bear in mind that the Law on the Management of Mining in Galicia was passed by the Bipartite when I was counsellor a member of the BNG, and what this government is doing is applying that law. What you don't know if you want us not to apply the laws. Or the most surprising thing, that you don't want us to apply a law promoted by the BNG. That's really amazing! What I can tell you is that what we're doing is to process an application for exploitation under the Mining Management Act in Galicia. According to this request, you know that all the documentation is in public information, and you know perfectly well that there are a number of agencies that have to report this request and that you also have to report on the compatibility from the point of view of mining to agricultural activity. I think it would be good for the BNG not to be in such a hurry, to take pictures, to simply respect administrative procedures and, above all, to respect the enforcement of the law. And of course be assured, and be assured of all farmers and all livestock, that we are going to defend, logically, their interests, but we also have an obligation to comply with the regulations and with the Mining Management Act itself, which, as I tell you, is the context of what we provide for all political groups and of what the Government has provided, precisely, to ensure the development of a sustainable mining and to ensure also, logically, the development of agricultural activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u275	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u276	Counselor, did you understand something I told you and what I asked you about? I don't think so. It's also true that there's no worse deaf than what you don't want to hear. I told him about agricultural land, and I told him that the Conseileria do Medio Rural must defend the invested one on its own. I'm talking about lands improved by the partial concentration, the CAP, and I'm talking about sheep who, while threatened by the mining project, will not be able to charge the CAP. I'm talking to you about farms that are in eco-friendly and the ones that are going to be taken off the stamp if they go into that play. And I'm talking to you about a company that you know well who's behind, because I didn't tell you before, but behind you is Villar Mir, the protégé of all of you. It's funny, isn't it? Yes, yes, there's an instrumental company that's behind all this and there's a 33% stake. Look at the papers, they're there, although there's a lot of hidden. Look, you know there's still a firm agricultural protection there. You know that a partial concentration is being repeated, which delivers titles in 2013, and is still under ban from other uses. You know you won't be able to plant anything on those lands. You know that the company is using itself thoroughly with all its workers and families, attending the livestock assembly, coercing and provoking a confrontation that there is no. Coercing! I was there yesterday and I had to keep quiet, and I was embarrassed to see how this causes a company that manages everything you want! By the way, a company where Fraga buried the mad cows in that mining company. We're not going to talk about concomitances and strange threads, but this is the reality. And the reality that can't afford a government is that one comes to this confrontation. And the reality is that the Council of the Rural Environment has to take advantage of the defence of the agricultural lands of this country. That's good!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u277	Finish, please. Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas Cruz. You have the turn, for the Government's reply, the Economic, Employment and Industry advisor, Mr. Conde López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u278	I continue to regret your lack of knowledge of the administrative order. I still regret your absolute ignorance by Galician Mining Management Act... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u279	Please listen to who is in the use of the word. Listen to who's in the use of the word! It seems that the right has only a few. So, please listen to who's in the use of the word. The decoration of the House — Mrs. Pontón, you have no word — I try to keep it myself. So, please listen to who is in use of the word, just as some of the Members of this House asked a little while ago. Please! Yes, those benches. So, please, Mrs. Pontón...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u280	Thank you very much. Of course, I fully understood your technical explanation, I understood it perfectly. And farmers know it perfectly because, as you know, this company, Erinsa, has been developing this business for thirty years. Now it looks like you want to come here and create a social alarm. Why? What's wrong? For thirty years they weren't developing responsible mining? Look, Mr. Rivas, I think you know perfectly well, when you ask the Administration to act itself, that within the process you have to allow the public hearing to be published, and you know perfectly well that the municipalities concerned have to report on this authorization of exploitation. And you know perfectly well that the Gaga Ecological Federation has to report, and you know perfectly well that the Gaga Natural History Society has to report. And you know perfectly well that within the procedure, the Galician Council — you do not need to create a social alarm — within the planning and administrative process, will report. And you will report through the General Secretariat of Environmental Quality and Assessment, and you will report through the General Directorate of Forest Management and Production, and you will report through the General Directorate of Nature Conservation, and you will also report through the General Directorate of Agriculture and Agri-Food. Mr Rivas, there's a mining management law that's going to mark perfectly whether this exploitation is compatible or not with agribusiness, and it's going to be the different organisms, the municipalities, and also the associations linked to the agricultural sector, the ones that will report. I think you shouldn't be in such a hurry as a political group, but just respecting a regulation that, by the way, promoted BNG. I'm sorry that you're trying to create a social alarm with such an important theme as to support mining and support the agricultural sector. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u281	Quiet. Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Carlos Enrique López Crespo and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the evolution, by fleet segment, of discharges and sales in recent years in the national cantabrico northwest
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u282	Question by Mr Carlos Enrique López Crespo of the Popular Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u283	Good morning again, Counselor. We're finishing this whole thing that started at ten o'clock in the morning with an interesting question from the Galician Nationalist Block, interested in rural areas. She didn't talk about the sea, sure... wait, woman, that I'll explain. [[Interruptions.]] I'm sure the spokesperson for the BNG doesn't ignore the fact that the villages, villages and villages of the Navy are lit up, ortegal's balconies, the Lamb, the Coast of Death, the River of Walls and Girls, the Barbanza and the Lower Ries are also rural and are of great importance. Why didn't you name them? I'm sure it was because you know that, in that sense, the politics of the Union is very good and there's nothing to criticize. Thank you for that explicit recognition, Mrs. Pontón. Counsellor, within the audience you did the other day here, it became clear clearly that the work of the council and of yourself is important and positive to the people of the sea world. Don't worry, Mrs. Pontón, don't worry. I allowed you to do that. Then, on the subject of fishing, I want to transfer the next question to you. The European Union Regulation on the common fisheries policy provides that Member States shall apply transparent and objective criteria, including those of a social and economic environmental nature, in order to allocate the fishing opportunities available to them. The standard for the distribution of fishing opportunities is 2534/2015, of 17 November, so that a management plan is established for the ships of the censuses of the north-west Cantabrian national calator. It sets out the criteria that prevail for the allocation of fishing opportunities, which are historical catches, or also history of catches, along with other criteria that meet socio-economic circumstances, the capabilities of vessels and others. In addition to this order, they live with different forms of management, from the individual, which occurs in the case of drag, to the set for minor arts. After two campaigns in which the fleet of minor arts has been governed by this new management plan, Members and Members of the People's Group ask you the following question: What is the evolution, by fleet segment, of discharges and sales in recent years in the north-west Cantabrian national square?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u284	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u285	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. López Crespo, in order to analyze the sales and unloading data of our fleet, I think we must start by seeing how this data was handled in the entire range of the Galicians and for all the fleets. So, we see that the economic value of fish and seafood sales in 2016 reaches the best figure of the last 20 years. The billing amount was 491 million euros for a total of 188,600 tons. With this data in hand, we will be able to analyze what was the behavior of the fleet's discharges and sales that operates in our closest quadrants, and which covers together 4,250 smaller crafts, drag, siege and fixed arts, understanding, within this group, those that use scratches, flyers and longlines at the bottom. Well, in the last year, our fleet operating in the Northwest Cantabria has increased its discharges around 5 million kilos, which has reported an increase in its billing at first sale of around 21 million euros. That is, a 4,6 % increase in downloads and an 11.5 % increase in billing. By going to the specific case of each segment of the fleet, let's say that on the trawl we see as the rise of sales between 2015 and 2016 was in more than two million kilograms, reflecting an impact on the very positive stretch, since it increases its billing by more than 6 million euros; or what is the same, with 6% more fish, has reached 13% more billing. For fixed arts, the rise was more moderate, since it surrounded the 50,000 kilograms, if it also reached positive sales figures, by increasing more than one million euros, made, however, outstanding, considering that this fleet segment was the least benefited in the general distribution of fishing opportunities. As for the fleet of the siege, the sensitive rise of the discharges, which has been around over two million kilograms, had an opposite effect on the length, since the billing was reduced by 11%, with almost 4 million euros less. But undoubtedly the best stopped segment in comparative terms was that of the smaller arts, since it grew in its discharges something more than 8.5%, if well this had a translation up by more than 18%, first exceeding the more than 100 million euros for this segment of fleet. I think this data should make us look forward and serve as a stimulus, giving shape to improvement measures where to improve, but also knowing that the path and the figures reached must be a reference. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u286	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. López Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u287	Thank you for the information, Counselor. Once again, I personally, and the group too, we publicly recognize their work. Since the conception of what the sea is and how this work is reflected in the people who live from the sea. Much has been said about our fleet and its evolution. We have positive data within an order. Negotiation in the European Union has allowed quota notes to increase by as much as 40% since 2012, and this has increased by more than 96,000 tonnes, and in value, by 117%, which amounts to 690 million euros; this is for Spain. It has been achieved that in 2016 — for the first time in years — our fleet capacity has increased, and the productive area has increased to shellfish; this is a very important aspect. All of this has an image of this data you just gave us. And for these fleets there is one more fact, the division of quotas between arts and ships, which we see that so bad shouldn't have been. That's why we ask you, if you can, to tell us that we can stand out in this respect. And nothing else, to say that the rural environment of the sea has a future because it has a bearing on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u288	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo. Close this question, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u289	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. López Crespo, I thank you for your words, and the only thing I can tell you is that these data encourage us to keep working. Of all we've been talking about, and of all we're seeing in the evolution of the sector, I'd highlight two things. One, the positive path of growth, both in kilograms and invoicing, which we are detecting in most of the different segments of the fleet; and another, a very positive fact from my point of view, and is that, for the first time in many years, not only are new ships being made, but they are increasing the capacity of others, and it is done without help! I think that's what we can most value, because no one would be investing if he hadn't seen the future in an activity. And the fact that people keep betting on this sector, that they keep investing money in finding more comfortable boats every day to develop their fishing activity, that's what tells us we're on the right track. Together this is also to another very positive data, which is the constant increase that we are detecting in all our training schools. That increase in nautical-fishing schools over 46% of Thursdays who want to continue to bet on the development of this activity, it does make us look forward to an optimistic future for this sector that is so important to Galicia. So, with the data I was commenting on in my previous exhibition, and with these final reflection data I make to finish this question, the only thing I can assure you is that we will continue to work so that these increments that we are gradually detecting continue to give more people more future, and also consolidating all that we, at the moment, said: increase the fishing possibilities of our entire fleet, of all, not just a few, and also getting that economic activity that was generated earlier in other autonomous communities, now remain in Galicia, which is what we are most interested in. We're Spaniards, yes, but first Germans. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-05-DSPG024.u290	Thank you, Counselor. It ends here the Full. Good afternoon, everyone.
