ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. Let us resume the session with agenda item 7, which corresponds to questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assessment of the Greek Government regarding the social and political situation of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u2	We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u3	Thank you very much. Let me say my first words today are to express all our anger and indignation at the last murder of male violence: an 11-year-old boy. I want to ask them not to spare any efforts and resources to fight violence. And especially those who invest in education and equality, because we have to question the speech that underpins Machism. Mary Reimondez expressed it very well yesterday: "We owe it to women and minors for those who are already late," Mr. Feijóo. Violence is therefore a serious problem in our country. But yesterday the barometer at CIS also pointed to two of the main concerns that citizens have: unemployment and corruption. Two signs of identity of how to rule your party. I'm unemployed because their economic policies are causing the destruction of employment, precariousness and emigration. And corruption because, as Mr. Rajoy said, your party is in a tsunami of isolated cases of corruption. The latter, Operation Lezo, which directly highlights Galicia's interests. By the way, he was very upset at the last control session we had in this Parliament. But I can't help but tell you that at the BNG we're not going to shut up, that we want an investigation into the public concessions to Villar Mir. And as much as you're irritated — that we see that you're upset — we can't ignore the generous donations to the Fraga Foundation, by chance shortly after that government in office has authorized three new electrical concessions to Ferroatlántica. Plus, those concessions have expired, and you're the finger, in 2012, rescued them, and now that defendant wants to sell them illegally. Can you explain why you gave this gift to Villar Mir? Can you, as President of the Board, ensure that you will not accept the blackmail of this businessman who puts 300 jobs at risk on the Death Coast? Bear in mind, Mr. Feijóo, that employment is today one of the main concerns our citizens have, and the truth is that it is not at all. According to EPA, 60% of the state's new unemployed are Germans. There are 14% of workers in Galicia who are poor, and we have 132,000 people — Mr. Feijóo, 132,000 people! — in a situation of extreme poverty. This reality is the result of your economic model, but you don't want to change anything, you'd rather continue to camp around with your official triumphalism. From the Galician Nationalist Block, we have proposals to make. First of all, let's say no to Mr. Rajoy's cutback, which discriminates against us while there are millions of rain in other territories. We want an economic concert that allows us to have EUR 3,500 million more, that is now in Mr Montoro's pocket, and that would allow us to shield public services and create jobs. We defend, Mr. Feijóo, a Greek electric tariff. We benefit from electricity production. Get Galicia out of the R+D+i tail wagon, let's make a strategic bet for this, or we'll shake hands with all those guys and girls who had to leave in the face of the lack of opportunities. These measures, Mr Feijóo, would certainly create jobs, not their official triumphalism. So today, given this political and social context, I ask you if you don't think employment would improve if you stopped looking at those who were worse, you had abandoned Mr. Rajoy's submission and started defending the interests of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u5	Your Honor, no parricide can but pose a reprisal to the entire Greek people, whom I honour to represent from the Government. Mrs. Pontón, the populist of issues you bring to the collation must be that you have nothing concrete to ask. In any case, Your Honor, I shall try to answer to this House with the greatest possible respect, on the basis of the questions you have asked me. You ask me about the situation that Galicia is living in general. It's not easy to answer in a few minutes, but Galicia's social situation is comparable to Europe's areas of greater economic recovery. It is the country itself that is recovering solidly from the deep recession and economic crisis that we suffer, which clearly grows, which grows even more than the average of Spain and which has less unemployment than the average of Spain. And we still have a clear tendency to reduce unemployment and increase membership in Social Security. But this question is from the spokesman of the Socialist Party. As far as the Party's spokesman is concerned, let me extend it to him. Look, Your Honor, about the country's political situation, in Galicia there was a stable government that came out of the polls a few months ago. There's a stable government because Galicia didn't want to fall into the risk of non-government, nor did it want to give greater prominence to populist governments that are in other autonomous communities. Here's a stable government that governs, and there's a solid government and a parliamentary group that supports that solid government without cracks. I mean, the Greeks just voted for political stability. And then, obviously, there's an opposition. There's an opposition that everyone together took fewer votes than the party that's in the government. There is an opposition in which there is a party that tries to find its place in a Greek society that, whenever there are elections, gives it its back. There's another party that tries to rebuild itself as an alternative. Let's hope you can do it someday, especially to know what you want to be an alternative. And then there's a party of incendiary speeches and populist proposals that are in eternal struggle between themselves, even though that fight between themselves is called internal debate. Your Honor, this is the social and political situation in Galicia. What are we going to do? Well, we don't worry much about the problems of opposition, and we worry more about the problems of the Greeks. The job, Your Honor. We continue with the aim of employment in Galicia moving around 15.4% at the end of this year. And we continue, of course, working for families with difficulties. The poverty rate you're referring to is -- it just came out published at the INE -- at 19%; no doubt a lot, but 3.3 points below the average of Spain and 4 tenths below last year. By the way, Your Honor, Galicia is one of the five autonomous communities in which the poverty rate is lower today than in 2008, when you pressed the Government button and didn't worry about the poverty of your country. And we are one of four autonomous communities that are the lowest in terms of poverty from the point of view of people with many difficulties to arrive at the end of the month. As you will understand, Your Honor, we have a lot of work, more resources for families with difficulties, more economic policy to continue to reduce unemployment and, of course, to ensure political stability and social stability in Galicia. I'm sorry, Your Honor, that you don't focus on anything, except that desolation they suffer, election after election, for seeing that Galician society no longer understands deceptions, but understands specific issues. Your Honor, on the problems of families and on the problem of employment here there is only one ally: the Government of Galician Union and the majority parliamentary group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u7	Well, Mr. Feijóo, I'm telling you about the problems and concerns of the citizens, you tell me about votes, and you come here to oppose the opposition by reinventing Parliament. In any case, Mr. Feijóo, I don't see where you see the stability of a party that is trumped by corruption and that generates instability throughout the state; that's the reality. You here want to flee and you don't want to talk about what are the extensions that corruption has in our country, in particular in that Operation Lezo, and in the dark interests behind Mr. Villar Mir. It doesn't speak. The silence makes him complicit in that situation, Mr. Feijóo. Make him an accomplice! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Which side would you be on? Two of the People's Party that denounce corruption or those of the silent People's Party? Because you also had your problems related to dark issues with corruption, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, don't want to slip your responsibility. As far as I know, you are a member of the state party's leadership who is accused of political corruption, with many ramifications and many doubts as to what is the weight of that political corruption in our country. In any case, we also wanted to talk to you today about another great problem that Galicia has, although you — I insist — would rather remain installed in official triumphalism. EPA data told us that 60% of the state's new and new unemployed are Germans, that more people are unemployed in the first quarter, and that the increase in unemployment in Galicia is much higher than the average state. But all that matters to you, all he cares about is if he's prepared the headline he's going to put on the news tomorrow. That's absolutely the only thing that worries the president of the Galician Union. We make proposals, you don't accept any. In any case, I also now celebrate that at this last stage you are doing a lot of other autonomic presidents. In particular, you just became very fan of Urkullu. He says what Mr. Urkullu gets for Euskadi is fantastic for Galicia. That's the reading you made from your paper on the subject of state budgets. Now -- because you want to put us in that debate -- we may wonder why Euskadi has an 11.9% unemployment rate and Galicia has 17.4% unemployment. Do you know why, Mr. Feijóo? Because Euskadi has a financing model — like what the Galician Nationalist Block defends for this country — that allows him to manage 100 percent of his resources and have more money to improve health or employment. Because they made a strategic bet on the R+D+i while you put us in the tail wagon. And finally, Mr. Feijó, because in Euskadi...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u8	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u9	...they have a president who exercises as president of a nation and defends his interests, and in Galicia we have you, become a puppet of Mr. Rajoy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u11	Thank you very much. Look, Your Honor, if you want to talk about EPA, ask the question about EPA. Don't you realize that you lack respect for Mr. Leicega by talking about matters that don't happen to you except in the morning, depending on what happens in the press of the day? Look, Your Honor, parliamentary questions are something serious, and lately I feel like you're not taking Parliament's or Parliament's questions seriously. Yes, because it doesn't take corruption seriously, for example. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] No, no, no, no. The corrupt are part of a trap that has nothing to do with the parties. To the corrupt PP, to the corrupt PSOE, to the corrupt BNG, what they're clearly interested in is to forget their own personal corruption and try to tarnish the party of what they're part of. And trying to stain a party of which a corrupt party — although nationalist — is trying to spot the BNG, which, naturally, I won't do. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, on those kinds of issues, we have it clear. So, as we have made it clear, we are absolutely calm and we are powerful in this matter. I still don't have any members of my government charged for anything. You ruled in Galicia only four years and still have a government member charged with something, Mrs. Pontón, and yet we don't know exactly what the BNG Industry Advisor did. So, Your Honor, saying that the BNG Industry Advisor is a corrupt, before he's tried, I think it's excessive. [[Murmurs.]] And to say that you're a corrupt person because you're a companion to that BNG advisor seems to me to be an excess that I'm not going to commit. Look, Your Honor, you really need to have a face to speak in that tone and with that subtlety. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Pontón, let's take a closer look at what you want. It seems to you that Euskadi has just reached a great political agreement because AVE will arrive three years after it arrives in Galicia. And yet in Galicia we are abandoned by the Government because the AVE arrives three years earlier. It seems to you a great deal of business about electricity in Euskadi, and you want to fool people by saying there's a custom rate for Basquedi. [[Murmurs.]] Falso! And you, yes, want to hide that the Greeks have our own concerns from the point of view of the tariff. For example, the costs of interruption are assumed. You know what we're talking about? We're talking about Alcoa, we're talking about Megasa, we're talking about Ferroatlantics. How much is that supposed to be on the fare, Mrs. Pontón? How much is it supposed to be on the fare, more or less than Euskadi? [[Murmurs.]] I'll tell you a lot more. Look, Mrs. Pontón, we're not stupid, eh! He doesn't believe that those who don't engage in the BNG are fools, because that would be like telling all of Galicia what fools we are! And we're not stupid to you, Mrs. Pontón, we know how to distinguish. Look, Your Honor, what would happen if the BNG had Members in Madrid? Would you be willing to agree with the PP on the 2017 budget with specific matches for Galicia? Or is it that just as the PP governs with that one can't deal in any way? [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, you who used to engage in the BNG and now some who are in the Tides have six Members in the Tides. Are the six Mareas Members proposing something to the PP in favour of Galicia to deal with the general budget of the State? Would you like something? Mrs. Pontón, stop sectarianism, we have no country complex, and stop looking out constantly. You say you're nationalists but you're always looking at what happens outside Galicia. Look, first they were allies of Convergence and Union,, yes, Your Honor, that's history, allies of Convergence and Union. [[Murmurs.]] Now they're from the Republican Left, then they're from the PNV, now they're with Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u12	Finish it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u13	Look, Mrs. Pontón, do you know something? His slogan I think it was something like "Building Galicia with illusion." No, Your Honor, your model is to build Galicia by imitation. Not me, Your Honor, I'm proud to be a German and I'm proud to be president of most of the Greeks. To be president of all the Greeks, including you. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the data of the Labour Market Survey in Galicia, recently known
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u15	Question by Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u16	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, the recently published data of the EPA, in the first quarter of this year, are a call for attention — I think it is shocking — about the inadequacies of its labour policy and, by extension, its economic policy. The rate of growth in last year's employment in Galicia was half the rate of growth in Spain. The rate of drop in unemployment was 40% of Spanish. These data are already dramatic in themselves, but they only lengthen a trend that comes from the last eight years, especially the last four, since the middle of the 2012 exercise, and which, according to existing forecasts, will also extend over the last two years. See the latest report published by the BBVA Regional Observatory. We need to discuss this situation seriously. We must abandon the bad parliamentary practice of opposing the opposition and seriously discuss what is going on in the labour market. Let's take EPA, compare the evolution of the Spanish media, take it from the beginning of its mandate and talk about what's going on. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, today in Galicia — he has given you a figure that is central to me — 136,700 people less employed than when you arrived at the presidency of the Union. There are 136,700 people less employed than when you arrived at the Presidency of the Union. At the rate of last year, Spain will take two to recover the employment level of the first quarter of 2009. Do you know how long it's gonna take Galicia at the pace of the last year? Eleven years to regain the level of employment that was in Galicia when you arrived at the Presidency of the Union! Greek society cannot wait for that time. Our youth must have much better expectations than these. The cost of pensions would be unbearable if we extended this situation. His 2009 Galicia contract promised jobs for all. Can you assure us today that when we leave the Chair of the Board in 2020 we will have a higher level of occupation than you found in 2009? Mr. Núñez Feijóo, if you had managed to get Galicia to behave in these years as the Spanish average, we would have 85,400 more jobs, we would eliminate unemployment for those who have been in this situation for more than two years and we would have 46,000 fewer unemployed; we would be able to solve the problem of unemployment for those between 25 and 34 years. The great divergence with Spain takes place in this matter, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, and is worse since Mr. Conde is an economic advisor. Something is wrong when the economic expansion of 3% leads to an increase in employment in Galicia, which is 1% or less, as is expected for the next two years. And there is no relief in the youth world, both youth occupation and youth unemployment also behave worse than in Spain. It's essential to change some elements, central elements of their economic policy and their labour policy, because EPA data tells us we're going wrong. What evaluation does that data deserve you, Mr. Núñez Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u17	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u18	Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, thank you for the question. And since you're asking me to be serious about EPA, we're serious about EPA. It's not very serious about a quarter EPA. It's not very serious, but you want to talk about a quarter EPA. Do you know that if we take EPA from the last twenty years, in seventeen years, the EPA from the first quarter is worse than the EPA from the last quarter of last year. But you don't want to talk about it. Anyway, he says he wants to talk to you seriously. I'll try, Your Honor. Look, you know that EPA marks less unemployment than in the rest of Spain, something that forgets; exactly 1.4 points less. EPA says we've been 12 consecutive quarters down the number of unemployed and at the lowest level of the last six years, Your Honor, of the last six years; the lowest level of unemployment in the first quarter of the last six years. EPA says the level of busy people keeps growing, and we've been, according to EPA, 12,500 busy more than a year ago. Your Honor, if you ask me about EPA's data, EPA's data in no way seems excellent to the Government, of course not. Now, what we think is positive is that today we have less unemployment than a year ago and that we have less unemployment, according to the EPA, which six years ago. And what we think is positive is that job creation is being consolidated in the last year. You spoke of youth unemployment. Why did you omit the fact that the first quarter EPA points to youth unemployment as low as 22%? Exactly 5,900 boys less unemployed. Why did you omit the fact that we have an eight-point youth unemployment difference over the last EPA? Why have you omitted the data, Your Honor, that occupation grows, for example, in agri-food at 14% and in industry at more than 4%? Why do you omit the data, Your Honor, that almost 8% of your homes are down with all their members unemployed? And why do you skip the data that the homes go up with all the members working? More than 9,000 new homes with all members working. Your Honor, why do you omit the unemployment data registered in April? That's after EPA. On unemployment recorded in April there are two considerations: today we have 23,000 unemployed less than a year ago. Secondly, we have less registered unemployment today than when I took possession in 2009. I repeat: less registered unemployment than when I took possession in 2009. But we're leaving EPA and registered unemployment. What do you think if we talk about memberships of Social Security? We have 21,000 more members of Social Security than a year ago. Mr. Leicega, talking about active population and busy population without talking about demography is cheating, and you shouldn't be cheating. Not only as a parliamentarian, but as a professor of economics, Mr. Leicega. Do you know how low the population was between 16 and 34 years of age? He's down 183,900. And suppose we now have 183,900 young people less as a result of the demographic crisis of the 1990s and so on, do you charge it now? Mr. Leicega, what a coincidence!, the figure of 183,900 minus young people between 16 and 34 years of age is approximately equivalent to the fall of assets in 184,000. Mr. Leicega, if you want to be serious about EPA, don't talk about EPA without the demographic problems of the country. And if you want to be serious about EPA, if I'd like you to tell me what the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party revenue is. Because you know what, Your Honor? The situation that I found in Galicia you know well: it was the recipes of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u21	Well, not by getting drunk with the figures, you're able to discuss what I told you. And those are pretty dramatic. Tell me: 136,700 busy less than when you arrived at the Presidency of the Union. He didn't argue with me because it's not questionable. That's right. EPA is the official register in terms of employment and unemployment. What all European countries do, all European countries! So we're discussing the tools we're giving to measure this issue. Do it INE, we don't mistrust him. Spain has already equalled the level of unemployment it had in the first quarter of 2009, Galicia is 35% above. And you're telling me we're talking about demo? If the number of assets falls, we should have the opportunity to increase our level of employment by less than the population. [[Applause]] But no, it doesn't happen because unemployment is just a comparison with that contingent. Demography works in favour of reducing unemployment rates, not on the contrary, Mr Feijóo, you should know that. But I make it easier, are you today able to tell us that you will fulfill your investment promise to create between 80,000 and 100,000 jobs during this term? Not the 136,700, but the 100,000 who said he was going to create during this term? Are you in a position to tell us this? Because in the last year he created 12,000, and this leads us, about, to half of those you committed to creating during the term of office. The unemployment rate of youth didn't reach 17% when you reached the Presidency of the Union, today it's 23.5%, with much less youth in the continuum of population. That's the big failure. Nothing to assume and much to worry about. And now he says he's going to update a youth guarantee plan that over the last three years they can't balance it because they wouldn't dare give the figures, and they're going to complicate it with more bureaucracy and little staffing. Do something simpler, that comes everywhere, with 90 million a year, to get to use 10,000 Thursdays a year. Not in four years, as you say, every year, because that's what we need to overcome an increase in the level of occupation of more than 20,000 people every year, which would allow us to follow the path of Spanish recovery and give us a chance on Thursdays, instead of having to leave or settle for unemployment in our country, and that would allow that demography which is so worrying to revitalize itself, and the only way is to create stable employment opportunities for our young people, who can have a vital project in Galicia. That is the key to all of this, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, and that will not be achieved if you continue with the labour and economic policy of recent years. I know it's not Mr. Conde's responsibility, it's the responsibility of the whole government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u23	...and of yourself, but it coincides with that. Since 2012 comparison with Spain is much worse; comparison with Spain is much worse. Look, just the evolution of the occupied in Galicia and Spain. Taking as reference the first quarter of the year 2009, up Spain and here Galicia. You know there's less busy in Galicia today than in the third quarter of 2012.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u24	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u25	Less busy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u26	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u27	Your Honor, what a bit of rigour! I'm sorry, Mr. Leicega, to speak again about a quarter EPA. [[Murmurs.]] Last year, when the third trimester in Galicia behaved much better than in Spain, you didn't say anything. The unemployment rate registered in April says nothing. From memberships to social security, which have no trap or card, they don't say anything. And it comes back — yes — to try to make a mistake and want to omit the fundamental data, which the population of Greece from 16 to 34 years old has fallen in 184,000 people. Now tell me there's less busy between Thursdays. Yes, Your Honor, we have 184,000 Thursdays under 16 to 34 years old, and you're talking about unemployment, about EPA, you don't care about demography, you mix everything, you talk about quarters, you don't talk about years, you don't talk about trend, you don't admit that during the last six years the best EPA is this, you don't admit that this EPA is less unemployed than the average of Spain 1.4 points. You don't admit anything at all. Look, Your Honor, if you ask me if we can fix the job outcome I found in 2009 as a whole, I'll say no. Mr. Leicega, you should know the data you left Galicia. Look, when you were ruling, in the last year, EPA threw 53,000 more unemployed, in a year of the Bipartite. And now EPA, that same EPA in the first quarter, says there are 11,000 unemployed less. When I arrived, the unemployment of the last year of the two-party government had increased to 51,000; in one year, 51,000 people. And now unemployment is falling in more than 23,000 people. In the last year of his two-party government, memberships of Social Security, which have neither trap nor card, have dropped 50,800; in a year, 50,800 affiliates less when you defended their labor policy. And now that it increases to 21,000 affiliates more in a year, you say we're not in a position to teach. No, no, give lessons, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Galicia's first problem is unemployment, without any doubt, I've always said it. You plant me if we're going to follow the target of the 80,000-100,000 new jobs. The answer is yes. The answer is yes, Mr. Leicega. You see, we could say that it depends on how the economy goes, it depends on who governs in Spain, because all this is obviously dependent on a lot of things, but we're going to continue with that objective. Why? Because our only interest is Galicia. We, Your Honor, when we hear you speak, defended policies of massive destruction of employment, left the country at the greatest rate of unemployment in democracy, and now it turns out they're going to tell us what their proposals are. Your Honor, allow me to make sure what your proposals are. Is the proposal the labour and economic model of Mrs Díaz in Andalusia, which is the most unemployed region in Europe? Your Honor, Galicia is not buying Mrs Díaz's economic and labor proposals. The proposal, on the contrary, is that of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who has no more proposal than to arrive at the government, regardless of his consecutive loss of all the elections to which he is presented? Mr. Leicega, if you still retain some consistency, you should take advantage of it in favour of Galicia. Don't do the ball to any candidate, Your Honor. You won't be taken into account, I assure you. They won't be careful to do the ball to Mrs. Díaz in the morning and Mr. Sánchez in the evening. Look, Your Honor, Galicia's first problem is unemployment. But unfortunately the proposals that we have received from the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party are the only thing that is to shadow even more the future of Spain and the future of Galicia. Today in Galicia there is less unemployment recorded than when I took possession in 2009, and today, according to the survey of active population, we have better data than when I took possession for the second time as president of the Autonomous Community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u29	As you will understand, the Greeks... yes, Your Honor, the EPA of the first quarter is better than the EPA of the first quarter of 2012. Mr. Leicega, you have to keep studying the data. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] I'm sorry. Yes, Mr. Leicega, what do you want the word for? [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If it's a clarification of something you said it wasn't real, you're entitled to that shift. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, the regulation contains it. If it's to rectify your own words, you can do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u31	The president of the board says he took possession in the first quarter of 2012, which is not so, took possession in the third quarter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u32	We all know when he took possession of the president of the board. We all know this. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Quiet. Quiet, please! In any case, it's a clarification we all knew. It has no greater transcendence. [[Laughter]] Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, about the actions planned by the Galician Union in the face of the reduction in the number of people who speak Greek and the situation in which the Greek language is found
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u33	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u34	Good morning, Mr. President. As a previous question, the way in which the President of the Union despises the rest of the opposition groups, exemplified here in the representative of the Socialist Party, is unworthy of a parliamentary democracy like ours. It's just that question that I couldn't stop expressing. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u35	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u36	Look, our question is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u37	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u38	...on the tongue. English is our country's own language and it's alive because people speak it and people want to speak it. We can even say she's alive despite the Government of the Union, despite the Government of the People's Party and despite Feijóo. And she's alive despite the fact that the data shows a loss of initial spokespersons in Galicia over the last ten years, from 51% to 20%. Some responsibility will have the Government of the Union in this regard. Let's suppose he'll explain that situation now. Is the question almost planned? In view of the evidence of these demolition and catastrophic data. Even so, I wouldn't want to focus the approach this way, because the life of the Greek is and will be long because people want to talk about it and people want to live in Greek despite you. First of all, in relation to childhood, you completely annulled the Greek of the early years of childhood education, absolutely! In such a way that even the Council of Europe recries them again and again, in each of the reports it makes, first, that they do not have lines of immersion; second, that they do not make an offer, according to the Vigilant Legislation, of lines in Greek and they do not speak Greek to children and children. What do you have to say to the criticisms of the Council of Europe report in this regard? It's more difficult to find a nursery at this moment in an urban setting that talks to the children of English than to find a leader of the Madrid People's Party not charged with corruption, and it's already difficult, eh!, but that's what's going on. [[Murmurs.]] Despite that, there are citizen initiatives like those of Apego... it's true, we're going to do it! [[Murmurs.]] There are initiatives like Apego that assume that organised citizenship takes steps forward so as not to allow the language to fade, not to allow it to stop broadcasting. What they're doing is to avoid or enforce the role that the Galician Union would have to play. What do you do to fulfill your role? As far as teaching is concerned, from the initial stage of 51% to 20% of Galician speakers over the last ten years, practically all of them governed by you; and 20% of young people who are unable to hold a conversation in English because they cannot develop fluently. What are you doing? To implement a decree of plurilingualism that deepens in that situation? To prevent people from acquiring full language skills to develop in their language? To try Galician citizenship of a basic fundamental right as is to communicate with their equals in their own language? Still, civil society, organized on platforms like We want to be Greek or Prolingua, year by year they get mobilizations, and girls and boys and educational centers are engaged in activities such as, for example, Correlingua, stating that yes, they want to be Greek. What are you doing for that Englishman? Science in English. For seven years now, he's been claiming himself in Galicia, celebrating the day of science in Welsh. And why did they have the scientific community and the educational community claiming science in English? Because the Government has forbidden the teaching of mathematics in Greek, the teaching of physics in Greek, the teaching of biology in Greek, as in frankism! Oh, yes... oh! [[Murmurs.]] If you don't, you're going to put a mustache like Franco on everyone. We also want Greek in mathematics because we know how to count in English and in Greek we count in the world. Leisure and youth. The entire quality childhood programming has disappeared on Radio Galega and Galician TV. And in spite of this, there are citizen initiatives like video games for young people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u39	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u40	...in English, which is exported to everyone, without subsidy. Communities of youtubes and yotubers who work in English, without grant. The one of the domain itself.gal, which came out of civil society, initially without the support of the Galician Union. What do you do, within leisure, to promote that grassroots clubs and spaces where young people socialize can take forward initiatives and socialize in Greek like Celta does with its campaign of cowardice? In the media, what results have it given, in terms of normalization, its permanent subsidy to the Galician media?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u42	Show us a single cover of a written medium of communication from the subsidised people that a different day to the 17th day uses the Greek on their cover. Even easier, half cover. Easy yet, local information. Select what you want and teach us about the outcome of that policy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u44	But people want to listen to English, so neighborhood radios, school radios are organized... what do you do to comply with the legislation, which establishes that radio spaces cover...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u45	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u46	...a minimum number of spaces in English? Then we followed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u47	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u48	Yes, Your Honor. As far as the House is concerned, Mr Villares' intervention is sufficiently clear. All the things he has said towards the president and towards the majority parliamentary group, ultimately towards most of the Greeks, which is why we are here, is clear enough. It is true that before Mr. Villares spoke another companion of Mr. Villares. He always told me that my goal was to be in Madrid, and now it turns out that this lady companion speaks only in Spanish. Probably, Mr. Villares, you're going to have the same thing. [[Laughter]] If you still resist something in your group, within all groups and within all subgroups, it gives me the feeling that you have a lot of time left to speak in Spanish and very little to continue speaking in English. [[Laughter]] Mr. Leiceaga, we... excuse me, Mr. Leicea, allow me this solemn apology that I transfer thoroughly. [[Murmurs.]] It's no good to confuse Mr. Villares with Mr. Leicega. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Among other things, Mr. Villares, because you, in linguistic policy... what you hear. Sometimes, when I see the questions from the Tide of Podemos, it gives me the feeling that they're announcements from the English Court. [[Murmurs.]] When I came on May 1st, they were still asking for unemployment without knowing the data of the survey of active population and the arrest of April; and now that it comes on May 15th, they ask about the language because the goal is to speak the language. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, sir, no doubt. [[Applause]] You have a great advertising agency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u49	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u50	That's right, you want to talk about spaces in English, look at La Tuerca, which, without any doubt, all the ads are made in Greek.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u51	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u52	Look, Greek is a little more serious than you're suggesting. The language policy of the Galician Union is clear: to comply with the Law of linguistic normalization. The Greek society owns an intangible heritage asset the greatest of its identity: the language itself. What we work for, logically, is not to divide, but to unite. What we work for is to build and not to destroy. What we're working for is for language to be everyone's, not minorities'. Because if the Greek language were not political minorities, of course, that would not be a good future for both language and Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] To say the things you say without blushing... turns out our language has never enjoyed such a high level of knowledge, never. We have the highest level of knowledge of all the co-official languages in Spain — the highest level — and we have, without a doubt, 98% of the Greeks who say they understand their own language and 83% of the Greeks who say they know how to write the Greek correctly. Yes, Your Honor, I know that some, when you don't care about a particular, say it's false, but it doesn't matter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have two problems in language, in economics and, above all, in youth. In the economic issue we made the I Plan to dynamize the Greek language in the economic fabric, made with the Royal Academy, with the Galician Council of Culture and with the companies and the country's economic fabric. And with youth, which is our main concern and one of the most important challenges, we are actually working in that population sector. That's why we're going to present the plan for the dynamization of the Welsh language in youth. For what? To cover certain areas related to the family and the generational transmission of language, technology, sport, extra-school activities, leisure and leisure. Look, Your Honor, we're going to continue working, no doubt, with the Royal Academy of Language and the Galician Culture Council, and, of course, with all the institutes, like the Galician Language Institute. Tomorrow, by the way, we are going to approve this year's convention. Are we going to need a consensus? Yes. To exclude the English language from the party struggle? Yes. I suggest the Galeg Culture Council, I know you're against that, too. I propose most of the Royal Academy of Galician Language, I know you're against most of the Royal Academy of Galician Language.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u54	Look, Your Honor, since you're interested next May 17th... yes, Your Honor, next May 17th, you should read Carlos Casares a little more. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Carlos Casares was a bridge builder. You, since you've arrived, are devoted exclusively to destroying the bridges, even those of your own groups. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u56	Do you want to ensure the transmission of Welsh? Do you really want a plan of the Galician language for youth? Raise the ban on explaining mathematics in English, end with linguistic franchise to which the educational system of our country has undergone. Do it. [[Applause]] That people have to claim the day of science in Greek, that we have to claim in Galicia that Greek is a skilled language for mathematics, physics and biology is a democratic anomaly. It complies with the Law of Linguistic Standardization, indeed, which establishes the assurance that the first teaching will be in the mother tongue, something that is not being complied with or even in the largely Gallagic contours. They're not respecting the rights of the Galician minorities in the cities. Take a look around those schools and you'll see what reality is. Language rights, administration of justice. The Galician Union is systematically denying the translation of the Minerva program into Welsh, which prevents services and prevents judges from regularly offering the Greek language in the Administration of Justice. And that's the competence of the Galician Council, transferred competence, agreed upon and recognized by the Directorate-General for Modernization of Technology itself, of the Ministry of Justice itself. Isn't that enough for them? Immigration. The Multilingual Decree establishes a reception plan. Where is it developed? Immigrants want to learn German and they don't have the means to do it because you don't enable them. He's talking about the company. We miss the fact that Igape sets up language conditions in the grant lines as well to promote language and guarantee workers' language rights, the use of signage in English as well as the offer of products in Greek. People also organize themselves, because we wanted to make a positive view of the use of language, despite the Join, to consume, and demand telephone attention in German, they demand labeling in Greek. That's why companies like Extel make sense in Galicia, in the Coruña, because they create jobs, because they create jobs that speaks German. Where are you supporting all this? Public procurement. Where are your administrative clauses that make it compulsory for all public services to be offered, at least, in Greek, what could they do perfectly? You should set an example. I'm talking again about law, language normalization. What example do you set when an important, and significant part in some areas, of your own public representatives does not use Greek as a vehicle language? What transmission is doing this? In order for people to exercise their linguistic rights, they must, first of all, know the language perfectly and, secondly, have no prejudices towards it. You yourself pointed to a fact: that not everyone knows the Greek language perfectly. There's 20% of the youth who can't express themselves fluently. These people are not free to choose English and Spanish because they are unable to develop into one of those languages. These people are deprived of basic basic rights, such as speaking in the language of their country, because you don't give them language skills.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u58	But, above all -- and I'm going to finish -- the worst is prejudice. Why did it happen in ten years from 51% to 20% of the original language? Because mothers and parents don't speak in English to children, or grandparents and grandparents don't talk to their grandchildren. Why? Because you're sending the message that Galician is not useful, because, if it was useful, you could learn Greek mathematics, and biology, and physics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u60	And you have it forbidden. Raise the ban, because people have the right to live normally in their own language. What did the Welshman do to you? What's wrong with the English language?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u61	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u62	Lift the bans, please. Lift the bans so people can normally live without limits to our language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u63	Thank you. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Villares, remind me of some people who approach me when I go down the street to any act and say to me, "Why have you forbidden social sciences to be given in Spanish?" Why? Why can't social sciences be given in Spanish and you force the Greeks not to learn social sciences in Spanish? Why? [[Murmurs.]] It's the same but backwards, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u65	Mr. Villares, you've finished your shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u66	cordial bilingualism exists in the country. Since you're not cordial, you don't understand the cordial bilingualism we practice in the streets, in the cafes, in the country. You're just looking at your magnifying glass, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Now it turns out he comes here and says 20 percent of the boys don't know German. But what falsehoods are you talking about?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u67	Mr. Villares, please be quiet. Your turn is over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u68	They can speak very much, quite or little 97.5% of the population. They can't speak German 2.5 percent of the population. That's what the Galego Institute of Statistics says, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u69	Quiet, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u70	You understand, you talk about it, you write about it, you know the vast majority of the population, and you are compelled to call everybody franchisee. You don't care!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u71	Mr. Villares, you've finished your shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u72	Look, Your Honor, the decree of multilingualism in Galicia has eight judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u73	Mr. Villares, I call you by order. Mr. Villares, I call you by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u74	If you also call franchisee to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia your problem, and if you call franchisee to the Supreme Court your problem. We believe in justice. And when we're told that the decree has to be rectified, we correct it. And, once corrected, you, who say you're a Democrat, why don't you assume it, if it's a constitutional, statutory decree, and in accordance with the Language Standardization Act? Why are you here telling me that we do not comply with the Law of Linguistic Standardization and eight judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia say that it is legal in accordance with the Constitution, the Statute and the Law of Linguistic Standardization? Do you know why, Your Honor? Because you're not interested in the truth, you're here for something else. Truth is not part of their heritage. Look, Your Honor, is there any more proactive administration in Spain in favour of Greek in justice, or in favor of a country's own language, than the Galician Union? But how can you deny this! Yes, Your Honor, yes! You know perfectly well that the app you're talking about is not a Joiner app, Minerva NOJ is an application from the Government of Spain. And you know that we ask the Government of Spain for applications to be able to translate them and that the answer, for now, is that not. You know... you don't care, Mr. Villares! [[Strong murmurers.]] Sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u75	Quiet, quiet, please. Quiet, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u76	The Greek legal portal, Lex.gal, the 2020 Plan, ensuring attention in the official languages, the electronic judicial headquarters, which presents a bilingual interface, the Law on the Management of Legal Assistance in the General Administration of the Autonomous Community, which says that all the writings in the justice that the Galician Union presents must be in Greek, all this, Your Honor, you ignore it simply because you are not interested in the truth. Look, Mr. Villares, most of the Greeks see wealth in their language and you see a problem. Most of the Greeks see an agreement in their language, and you sow division, and most of the Greeks are interested in knowing Greek, among other things, because it's our language, second, because it connects us with 250 million speakers in the world, and third, because together with Spanish and, yes, also with English, it's the three language skills we want to have in Galicia. Look, Mr. Villares, if what you want is absurd wars, better war with your comrades. They seem quite more willing to argue with you than I do. I'll continue to rule, you keep fighting. But don't get confused, Mr. Villares, we already know your problem doesn't have it with the Greek, your problem is that you don't admit it as a party leader because you are constantly missing the truth. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue with the fifth item on the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José González Vázquez and eleven other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Farming in connection with the charging for tax purposes of subsidies received by the incorporation of young farmers into rural economic activities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u78	There are no amendments. Mr. González Vázquez has the floor to make the non-law proposal. [[Murmurs.]] Wait a minute. Wait a minute there's a little quiet before you start. [[Pause.]] Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u79	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing to this plenary an initiative which I think, after these days of war, that responds to what citizens are voting for, which is to try to improve their situation and their living conditions, in this case, in the rural sphere. Look, since the beginning of the legislation, we have defended the need for our farmers and livestock to be aware that they are developing an agricultural activity that has to be profitable. We have to convince — and this is a job for all of you, too, of opposition groups — that farmers and farmers are businesses, even though we consider the smallest to be micro-enterprises, but they are companies. And like such companies, they have to be aware of their obligations, both tax and other types. In view of all this, what is clear is that we must try to improve the conditions for fulfilling those obligations. Look, we're talking about an important issue here today, which is the generational remittance. The importance given by the Rural Council to the generational rebound, to which young people are incorporated into agriculture, is seen in the orders that are convened each year in relation to this type of performance, of incorporation. I'm going to give some data for the last five years, but not because it's part of the People's Party or the Party, but because it affects the GNP that we bring today. In the last five years, since 2012, Junta has supported the incorporation of nearly 1,800 young people into agricultural activity in Galicia. It highlights -- don't worry, Mr Sánchez, which I now go to the subject, I'm explaining to the GNP, I think I have all the right of the world -- It highlights 2016, in which grants were granted to a total of 618 young people, with a significant increase over the previous year. In the wake of aid, these incorporations were supported during this period by an amount that reached almost EUR 50 million; that is, always above the EUR 20,000, and, in particular, in 2016 above, individually, of EUR 40,000. If we go back now to the first part of my exhibition, considering that these boys are engaged in economic activity, they have to comply with their tax obligations. The subsidy received will be charged as income tax income for the natural persons of these farmers and will have the performance rating of economic activity. So far there's no doubt about it. Grants are taxed on a general basis and there is no exception here. What the People's Parliamentary Group no longer agrees with is the way this subsidy is being taxed and, more specifically, the temporal imputation. Look, the temporal imputation of a grant, when we're talking about an economic activity, depends on whether it's considered current or capital. If it's current, you have to charge in one year; if it's capital, the subsidy is charged in the years in which the property acquired with that subsidy is amortised. Let's think of a young man or a girl who made the $40,000 grant this year. You may use part of this grant, for example, to buy a tractor, or to buy another machinery, which will be used for a period of time beyond one year — ten years, for example —. Let's imagine that this tractor cost 25,000 euros and that the other 15,000 euros, the rest of the money, allocated them to the expenses needed to start their business. At the moment, and as the tax treatment of the subsidy is concerned, the EUR 40,000 are considered revenue from the first year of activity. This is not an issue that a parliamentary group decides on, it is a question that sets the General Directorate for Taxation, through binding consultations, because it regards the grant as current. What are the consequences of this qualification of the grant as current? First, that the whole income is charged in the first year of the boy's activity, with which in the year in which he has less liquidity — because he's spending all his money to deal with the start of the activity — is when we're demanding it, or when he's being demanded by the Tax Agency, the tax that corresponds to him for the whole of the subsidy. But besides, as a result of the effect of progressiveity, having to charge the whole grant in a single year, what happens is that more taxes are being paid. That is, if we take the 40,000 euros in the first year, the boy will have to pay around 30% of the IRPF, 12,000 euros, while if we take them, for example, in five years, if we divide those 40,000 euros at the rate of 8,000 euros each year, as a result of the progressive taxation, the whole would pay less. In short, if we can get the subsidy to be charged in more years than in the first year, we can get our young farmers to pay less taxes and, in addition, pay them later. So what is the position we stand for at the first point in the GNP? Even though I've made it more or less forward, I also want to explain clearly why we're talking about a minimum period of five years. Look, what we're defending is that the General Tax Office is changing its approach so that this subsidy is considered as a capital subsidy and therefore not being charged in a single year. I repeat, these are undoubtedly advantages for young farmers; I repeat, it is work that we have to do to improve the conditions of these farmers. Our approach, which I understand should be supported by opposition groups, is that in the example of what we were talking about before, of the 40,000 euros, the part that is destined for the purchase of a tractor that is going to be used in ten years is due in ten years, that is, 2,500 euros every year. And what about the 15,000 euros that went for first-deployment expenses? We argue there that, if the boy has an obligation to remain in economic activity for five years, the grant should also be charged at least in that five-year period. So — I repeat — we seek, on the one hand, to pay less taxes for those who enter the field and, on the other hand, also to delay the payment of those taxes. See, Junta is aware of the problem, and this year, in 2017, amended the aid order precisely to clarify these issues, to the extent possible, avoid this problem to the young people who join the field in 2017. So, in the order that was published in February this year the aid lines are now distended: investments in fixed assets — when I talk about fixed assets, they are the ones that are going to be in the boy's estate for more than a year, as in the example of the tractor we were talking about earlier — and the development of agricultural holdings. In the line of investment aid in fixed assets, there is no doubt that the grant is capital and, therefore, we have already solved the problem. In the line of incorporation of young people, in the incorporation premium, what we do, or what it does to Join, is also clarify what are the periods the farmer has to be in the field, in order to also bring taxation to the minimum period, of what we were talking about, five years ago. Finally, I would tell you that, with this writing of order, the 2017 problem ahead of time, we've solved it. But the case is that we still have young people who, out of ignorance, have either not declared this subsidy or, if they do not change the General Tax Authority's approach, will have to collect their entire subsidy again this year and charge it in their income statement. What we are asking for in this GNP is for the Directorate-General for Taxation to change its approach, adapting to what I have just passed on to them: that the subsidy is considered to be a capital subsidy and that the allocation of this subsidy is made within a minimum period of five years. This would be a first point in the GNP. At the second point of the GNP we also try to solve another problem of our young farmers. It may happen that in some cases — or in several cases, cases I have seen these days — the young man, with the grant he receives, what he does is, for example, bring it to a farm society of transformation from which he is part. In these cases what is happening, from a tax point of view, is that, although those who receive or benefit from the grant are the agricultural processing society, who has to pay the tax is the young man in his IRPF, in his tax on the income of physical persons. We believe that in this case it should be defended — although it is difficult from a technical point of view, but politically, with the support of the People's Parliamentary Group — that, even if the agricultural transformation society is not the beneficiary of the subsidy, that subsidy should be taxed on the tax of society and not on the tax of the young man, in the ultimate aim, that it is the society that enjoys the subsidy that is also the society to be taxed on it. Look, we're really talking about an initiative that seeks to improve this taxation of these young farmers. We're talking about nearly 1,800 in the last five years that can be affected by this measure. We seek to encourage the incorporation of farmers by means of aid. And with initiatives like this, we seek to facilitate the fulfilment of their obligations, but always with the premise that they have to meet those obligations. Ladies and gentlemen — and I will finish — if we want our rural future, in our opinion this is the next line. We really need to set up a strong and professional producer sector. This is the way in which our parliamentary group will be, from the clear conviction that we will only be able to achieve our rural future and that we can value it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u80	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. It was very good writing in the PNL, but you started pretty bad. Let's see, we understand each other. Businesses, you want and you want agricultural holdings to be exclusively businesses and macro-enterprises, that's their policy, and that's where it's oriented. No, no, you're denying, with your claims, reality. And the reality is that there are family companies here that don't get to be companies, and that are the ones that need help, because they are the ones that are. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, yes, Mr. Moses, yes, they're using forages and thought made here, and they're spending them canutas, they're destroying themselves. Those are the ones that are being destroyed. And macro-exploitations don't go well, they're not for this territory, they're convinced at once. Anyway, I think they're bad with their government friend, and they're bad with the Council. Because this solution could have been kept a long time ago. Obviously, we are facing one of the anomalies, by calling it somehow, which is more irritating to young people — and they know well — who joins in agricultural activity. You don't understand that a five-year-old aid will have to pay all taxes at once. Nor is it understood that these aids are covered late, ill and the trail, the trail and more the Fairy stick, which sometimes takes a third of the amount. Most of the new incorporations go to civil or commercial societies. To say as a Christian, they are usually parents who incorporate children or daughters and continue to work hard to get their retirement. Help fits into society and invests itself, and that investment unburdens society, but who charge is the young man or girl and taxes it. It's an understatement in every rule: it unburdens society and taxes those who charge. That's what you said and we repeated it. But they're missing some details. Does it not seem to you that what is re-incorporated into agricultural activity should be able to choose the aid amortization system? I mean, either in the five years it's preceptive or in the years it lasts the amortization of the purchased good. Well, that wasn't in the PNL, so you said now. But they should force the beneficiary to stay at that time of amortization. Until 2014 these aids paid a flat rate for the five years of the installation period for the newly-incorporated, then not. Look, for the BNG the resolution of this non-law proposal should be a temporary, temporary measure, while the Board does not negotiate with the Ministry of Business the exemption of taxes for this type of aid, the exemption of taxes for this type of aid. It is necessary to define which strategic sectors do a social good, which support the natural environment, that is, they affect non-intensive, sustainable and respectful economic activities. We told them to protect and dominate the new incorporations to small holdings of milk or meat, profitable on a territorial basis and poorly mechanized management, and little dependence on esogene inputs. Is it going back to the past? No, it's going to a reality that distributes wealth, not that it accumulates wealth. These incorporations would help to set population and enrich agriculture, preserve the humanized landscape and avoid the desertification of the territory. They're two different models, we know, we know. Yours is headed for that macro-grande of Soria. Yes, and they're making animal environmental impact points. Yeah, yeah, they know. Out of every 10 new incorporations, 2 starts from zero, i.e., they totally start the activity. They are special cases because they will need subsequent investments. They don't own anything and they want to become part of it, usually agrarian activity. If the €25,000 of the new incorporation is approved and there is no improvement plan, the security of being able to count on it, the first grant is broken money. They should go in the same package, together with a viable project test and sufficient training for it. Remember that the million question is on the territorial base, always remember that. It's essential for any agricultural project. What about the agricultural area of the farms that abandon activity? What do you do with them? Eucalyptus bananas? What kind of compensatory plans and measures? What does the Council do for these lands to continue to produce and not give up or plant eucalyptus? Look, we're going to support this PP proposal, without it serving as a precedent, and they don't take the vice. We're going to support it, even though it only looks at one aspect of the anomalies, because this is a demand that our young people have had for a long time and you're finally told to pursue it. [[Murmurs.]] Welcome home.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u82	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u83	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we see with satisfaction how some of the measures we are proposing, which we are going to say, which we are going to make, on the agricultural or agricultural policies that are being implemented since the Galician Union, are incorporated here today in this proposal that the People's Party brings. And this is proof that many times the things we put on the table, which we say to them, are neither a catastrophic nor demagogic vision, but that they are the realization of reality and of standing by the street. We also see that in the 2017 call for the incorporation of young people and girls into agricultural activity, they are already linked to improvement plans, which have not been so far, which has caused many dysfunctions. And these dysfunctions that have been repeated in recent years, in recent calls, we also proposed them in the two appearances that the councillor made in front of this House. In these two appearances we made special remarks in the inconsistency of, on the one hand, giving economic aid — which we can figure in that average of 40,000, 45,000 or 50,000 euros — and, on the other hand, having to charge the imputation of that aid all within the first year. That was an inconsistencies, a contradiction, that had to be resolved and that we had to repeat several times before the counsellor's appearances. So we celebrate the change of position of the People's Party and it goes down to reality and takes the pulse of that reality in the rural field. The possibility, of course, of prolonging the taxation period to five years will be a positive step, in case we go ahead in the Ministry of Business, which we still do not have clear but we hope it will take place. We will support this proposal, as it cannot be otherwise, because it is in the direction of flexible taxation and taxation of people living in rural areas. And we believe that tax and tax flexibility is going to be a key piece that builds the roots of young people and girls in rural areas. But this initiative is done without meeting all the expectations of the agricultural sector. Tax and tax flexibility can and must be a fundamental weapon if we really want to boost socio-economic and demographic activity in rural areas. We advocate fiscal flexibility and taxation linked to the characteristics of the activity and investment carried out, which in this initiative is not envisaged and we hope that it can be extended. To understand that, these are not the same circumstances as the young man or girl who joins, for example, the horticultural activity, and who makes an investment of between 10,000 and 20,000 euros, that the young man or girl who joins the avian activity, a poultry farm, where we can be talking about between 250,000 and 400,000 euros. They're very different circumstances, and it's a link to the sector that's also radically different. So under different circumstances they also had to apply various solutions to fit reality. Investor effort has nothing to do with the other case. Neither is the period of that depreciation, nor the circumstances of that peasant or peasant with that link to the activity and the territory. So we went back to stress that they're very different from the circumstances and that we had to try to clear those differences to match them as closely as possible to the actual circumstances of these incorporations. Because if not, we're talking about periods, for example, of amortization from between three and four years to the first case, and from fifteen or twenty years to the second or other cases. If, therefore, economic circumstances are radically different, then there must also be a distinction between the conditions of this flexibility that is brought to us here today, that fiscal and tax flexibility. We therefore defend the extension of the deadlines far beyond the five years proposed for this initiative, depending on the characteristics of the activity, depending on the investor effort and the link with the activity and the territory. Therefore, this initiative should be adapted and further refined. That said, what we said at the beginning of the intervention: we must support it because it seems to us an important step. But we still have to clean up and adapt to these circumstances that our people are living in if we want this flexibility to build economic activity and also demographic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u84	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u85	Thank you, President. We also believe that this initiative is positive if there is a real will to implement it. But we want to make a critical reflection that we think should be done by the People's Group, but we know what they're not going to do. This exigencies are late — it has also been mentioned earlier — I think they had plenty of time to do so and to get in touch. And they should also pay attention to many other issues that are related; for example, to the bureaucratic difficulties that many times have to deal with such aid. The spokespersons of all parliamentary groups have already spoken about how positive this amendment is being proposed. The added difficulties of accounting for all the money in a single year are evident. I'm not going to extend much more. It is excessive taxation, the current IRPF creates difficulties added to the beneficiaries. It's a very delicate period of their professional activity in which they must face numerous depreciations and need liquidity. But, as I say, most of them are said, and I think we should take this initiative to think a little bit about the more general framework and the situation in which we find ourselves with regard to the agricultural population. Because, although this measure is positive, we think it's not enough at all. And I believe that many times — as in all speeches every time we talk about the rural environment in committees and in the plenary — the Government is blind to reality and describes a situation that does not correspond at all to the situation in which most farmers and farmers in our country live. I don't know if it will be intentionally to conceal the failure of their policies, because — although we have always said so — rural is, of course, a chance for Galicia today, but it is an opportunity if we completely change current policies, because the current ones are proving to be unsuccessful and wrong. The figures are negative, they're not positive, even if you try to say otherwise. Less than 5% of farm farmers are under 40 years old, and more than 60% of farm workers are over 60 years old. And when they talk about the incorporation of girls and boys into rural areas, even though the figures may seem very positive, we find ourselves in trouble that is silenced, because they only tell people who ask for help and access those aids, but they don't talk about that in the years of the crisis the percentage of incorporation in the Spanish state was twice as much, doubled to Welsh. And there's no follow-up on what's going on with the rural people. It is not, of course, a matter of incorporating, in order to have very positive figures, but rather that these incorporations are permanent in time and that they have concrete support and material issues. So, as we have asked them on many occasions, where are the data of the people who join the countryside and fail in their attempt for lack of support? That data would also be used to contrast how many of those people who enter every year have to go back to work in the urban. It is supported by providing more training, supported by financial support, but not only with marketing networks for its products, with titration and follow-up of incorporation projects, with technical advice, not dismantling the comarcas agricultural offices and, above all — which the spokesperson for the Nationalist Block has already commented — supports increasing the useful agricultural area. If they want farms that are economically sustainable, they have resources and staff at the Land Bank and they're doing a lot more for people to increase the land surface. Because, if not, behind initiatives like this, that we've already said they're good and in which the People's Party is supposed to defend our rural and the incorporation of girls and boys, we find a huge contradiction. We are not worth anything that brings initiatives like this if the rest of the policies go in the opposite direction, or if all the agreements previously taken do not take into account. Agreements have already been reached in this House, for example, in 2013, on the occasion of an initiative by the Gaga de Left Alternative, which called for the creation of a working group to create a plan to incorporate young people into rural areas. It is an incomplete agreement — like many others —. He's just done two preliminary meetings and nothing else. If they really want to do a thorough job on the incorporation of young people and girls, on the problems they have, they're giving a boost to this parliamentary agreement, because if we don't, frankly, believe in good will. This serves, and we have already said that we agree, but we really need them to make a minimum of self-criticism and to completely change the pace or meaning of their policies. Because, if not, we think they're acting like they're bluffing. This is fine, but most policies are totally contrary to the philosophy of defense of boys and girls. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rivas, I wasn't wrong when I started. And I'm telling you the wrong ones are you if you don't support this business perspective and economic profitability. We need to talk to rural people about price increases, cost reductions, profitability. Because if not, we're sharing misery, and we're not sharing misery. [[Applause]] We have to make products with added value for everyone, Mr. Rivas. [[Applause]] If you sell wine and sell expensive wine, you have to pay the grape correctly too. If you sell milk well, you have to pay the owners. We have to talk about economic profitability. And what we can't do is tell our farmers stories. How is this supposed to be exempt from the grant? The taxi drivers will also come tomorrow to ask for their subsidies to be exempt, the owners of the bars will come and everyone will come to ask for them to be exempt in any grant. Where do we put the limit, Mr. Rivas? Where do we put it? What we have to tell him is, you're a person who carries out an economic activity and you have to fulfill your obligations. And if any obligation is poorly regulated, we have to work here in Parliament. By the way, not counting historians, but bringing initiatives. They say it's late. You present it! Why didn't you introduce her? Of course! [[Murmurs.]] It's just, really, I've been in Parliament for a short time but it's something that makes me amazed. [[Applause]] Now it turns out it's late. I wrote it when I could. In any case, this initiative, with its technical rigor, is designed to save the situation from at least four years ago, which is the one pending prescription. Look, I tell you with all my affections -- you know, Mr. Rivas, I'm very fond of him -- they gave him the data wrong. The binding consultation by which this criterion applies — I tell you if you want to look for it — is the binding consultation 1348/2011. So it's not that until 2014 there was a criterion, it's that this is already being done since 2011 and further back. I mean, it's a criterion in our opinion — and also in your opinion, because they're in harmony with our LNP — wrong. And we have to convince the Directorate General of Tributes, and we're going to work on this initiative to convince the Directorate General of Tributes, to change that criterion. It's prejudicing our boys who get into it, and we, of course, are not going to defend that criterion, we want it to change. Yes, of course, we're also friends with Villar Mir, Mr Rivas, we're always with the same, come on! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'll tell you something. I, like many of you, come from civil society to be here parliamentary. We're a little tired of civil society hearing always the same milongas as you, sure, and now as a parliamentarian. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Quiroga, the same thing. I don't know exactly when you put the measure on the table. But, of course, I think the job we have to do here is to present the initiatives. You might have introduced her, too. What I want to tell you is that all the proposals you make on the line today, in the same way that you are giving us support, if they're reasonable, we're going to support them. We don't have the only ability here to talk good things to rural people, we're taking them with initiatives like this. But if you bring good initiatives for rural people, of course, we will support them too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u88	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the initiation by the Galician Board of Procedures necessary for the declaration of the Catalan Rupester Art as the heritage of humanity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u89	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales and another amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u90	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u91	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. As we have seen from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, given that we are about to enter on May 17, not May 15, although it is also a date for us to celebrate, we want to take advantage of this plenary to focus on Greek culture. [[Applause]] It turns out that if we care about the calendar, and therefore we adapt our initiatives to the calendar, it's not a President's discovery, it's evidence. It's a fundamental theme that we understand that doesn't come in on these walls as many times as I should. And even when he does it in the form of poetry, it seems to bother the popular bench. They'll know why. As it cannot be otherwise, when we speak of Galicia's cultural wealth, we do so with full pride and complete conviction that we are fortunate and fortunate to enjoy the treasures that conceal our land. But unfortunately, when we talk about the cultural wealth of our country, we also have to do it thinking about the abandonment and neglect that historically has been suffered by the Unity of Galicia. With the numbers in hand, it seems that the cultural policy of this government is, above all, of burnt land, because, as the data show, culture has been one of the most affected by the austeri policies of the People's Party. Since 2009 you have reduced the budget in real terms by almost 65%, which I suppose has lost 77.5 million euros to protect our most valuable cultural heritage; 77.5 million euros less for artistic promotion, 77.5 million euros less to guarantee a fundamental right as is the right to access to culture. It's less bad that in the cultural field they don't try to tell us that less is done more, because the data is hopeless. And I'm warning you that it's data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, which would make no sense to come up here and try to depress them, because it's their data. Since you arrived in the Government we have 7,000 jobs less in the cultural sector, families spend on average EUR 211.6 less on cultural activities. But, by focusing on the issue that we are facing today, the conservation of heritage, when you reached the Government, the departure of conservation, protection and consolidation of archaeological deposits was of nothing more and nothing less than EUR 1,153,506. In recent budgets you left 100,000 euros to preserve all the archaeological deposits in this country, 1,053,006 euros less, which in real terms is almost a 99% decrease. That's nothing! In the same line, the game of promotion, cataloguing and inventory of the cultural heritage, which had 1 million euros in 2009 and today a little less than half. We can also mark transfers to local corporations for heritage protection, which has increased from 650,000 to 90,000. It is a sum and followed by disappointments that have obvious consequences in the state of abandonment of our cultural heritage. We think they're data that's powerful enough to stop thinking about the cultural and heritage legacy that we want to leave to the people who come after us. But it's not only about the volume of resources, but about what they spend; a budget clearly insufficient but that you insist on continuing to spend on that "aircraft-free airport" they have on Mount Gaiás. There's no austerity, but scandalous expenses. While the workers and cultural workers of this country live in increasingly precarious conditions, while access to culture becomes increasingly a privilege for the elites of this country, as our heritage is eroded, in the City of Culture it continues to bury nothing more and nothing less than 1 in every 3 euros that this government devotes to promoting cultural activities. Nearly 11,000 euros a day are going to light and with the cleaning and security of the premises. Almost 11,000 euros! So it turns out that in just nine days they spend both in the City of Culture and throughout the year to protect and preserve the archaeological heritage of all Galicia. A real scandal! The truth is that their cultural policy is not only unfair but clearly insufficient. As we have already been able to comment on in this House, data on GDP and employment should be clear enough for the Government to understand that culture has not only incalculable social benefits — those that normally matter little — but also an economically profitable activity. According to the Galego Institute of Statistics, the Greek cultural sector accounts for 2% of GDP and 3% of employment. figures very similar to other key sectors of the Greek economy, such as fishing. But there is more, although it is very difficult to evaluate the social effects of short-term investment in culture, with an outstanding history to cross it with other variables, we can infer that investment in culture creates indirect induced employment very useful for companies to continue their activity, raising educational levels and lowering the crime rate. It was also found that an increase in investment in culture reduces the debt of municipalities. By setting an example, we can cite the case of a city whose economy has shifted from heavy industry to culture and services. And, according to Fierro, for every direct cultural job that created the municipality, nine were generated induced. In the same sense, in a study on the repercussions of cultural activities that took place in this city, they concluded that there was a clear correlation between cultural and social development, such as associationism, labour parity between men and women, immigration and the quality of life. Reading on this matter, one question is that it would happen if, in these studies of bodybuilding, their lessons were applied in each province of our country. Maybe so we could really be aware of the good that it does to all of us and to all of us investing in culture. I mean, culture is not only a fundamental right, but we're talking about a sector that brings added value. So it's incomprehensible the contempt this government has for our culture. You have to change your mind and start to understand that resources for culture are not a expense, but an investment in the future. When you cut the budget for theaters, the archaeological research, the maintenance of heritage, you're closing the country's excellence, and eliminating any possibility of forming a whole generation. The reductions proposed in the budget of science, letters and arts are twice as perverse because, on the one hand, they are little in number from the financial point of view, but harmful from all other points of view. I mean, we're talking about really profitable policies with which little by little a lot can be done, such as the question we bring here today, a proposal that we understand of particular interest that would help to enhance the important art of the Galician Rupee. Why are we bringing this issue to this House? Because we are concerned that our land, which today we want to care for and protect so that tomorrow they look after and protect our daughters and children, is in the hands of those who, with their eyes and their hands closed, limit their cultural potential. But it's not a proposal from En Marea. In this case, this parliamentary group wants to be the mere transmitter of a demand for organised civil society, which we collect from the organization SOS Arte Rupestre, which not only tries to give knowledge and value our heritage, but rather claims the potential economic and social return that would have its proper treatment. Gale's rupest art undoubtedly forms one of Europe's most important prehistoric outdoor petroglyphs, but some of these engravings are at enormous risk, not only of deterioration, but also of disappearance, as well as of alerted experts in them, in the absence of care in the matter of cleaning and maintenance that ensure their proper conservation. That's why we join their demands, to request their urgent protection and declaration as the heritage of humanity. Its heritage value has been sufficiently documented by the studies of the same, so that they claim that the Greek petroglyphs can be likened to the caves of the cantabrian cornea or the paintings of the Levantine area, as well as its heritage wealth, its aesthetic beauty and its historical relevance. But contrary to what happens to them, they find themselves totally unprotected and unguarded by both agricultural and forest fires that put them at risk. There are many examples of the danger situation in which this heritage lies, among which we can highlight the example of the emblematic stone of the Ferraris, of Campo Lameiro, qualified as one of Galicia's ten most important monuments, and which, despite its incalculable value, is totally abandoned. They are not our words, but words of that manifesto quoted from SOS Arte Rupestre. That's why we think it's time to return to this situation, to claim one of the most valuable artistic manifestations of humanity that we are lucky enough to have in our country, and that of us depends on its proper conservation, recognizing its incalculable value and providing it with maximum protection, asking for its declaration as a good heritage of humanity. A statement that they already have the paintings and cantabrics that I mentioned earlier and that it would certainly be useful to generate wealth with the visits of people from all over the world, as well as to encourage their study and dissemination by public administrations. It is for all this that the Parliamentary Group of En Marea presents the following non-legislative proposal: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to initiate the proceedings to achieve the declaration of the Greek Rupees Art as the heritage of humanity." I wish we could reach a consensus on this matter; the generations to come would certainly appreciate it. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u93	Well, good morning to all and to all. Go ahead and we support this initiative you present today in Marea. We made an amendment to incorporate a number of points into the initial proposal, because it seems to us that it completes — or in some way... yes, I believe that "complete" is the word — the initiative as proposed. And, in some ways, what we propose is to follow a series of steps, with the horizon precisely placed on that momentum of humanity's heritage candidacy, as SOS Art Rupestre requests, to which we join. But it is also true that that campaign was launched with a fundamental objective, that it was also to show and claim the situation in which rock art is found in our country and, in particular, much of the petroglyphs that we have found scattered throughout our territory. With that, I say, the horizon placed on the momentum of humanity's heritage candidacy, with which we are absolutely in agreement, we include two more points: The first would be to invent and catalog all the pieces, all the petroglyphs that are found, I say, scattered across the whole territory of our country, because the truth is we don't even know what we have; there is no record; there is no catalogue, an official inventory, literally, of the examples and the pieces of rock art that we found in Galicia. And in that sense, we understand that the first step is that the Board assumes, that the Administration assumes the responsibility it has in relation to its cataloguing and its inventory. There was a strong, very strong popular work, in the signage, in the discovery, in the care even and in the protection of these petroglyphs, these pieces of rock art, in many cases by social collectives, as it can be here, in the city of Compostela, the social center to the Pichel Gental or many similar to this by the country ahead. Secondly, we believe that what needs to be done — and we also have enough examples of what it would take to develop the very heritage of humanity itself — is that what we need is that the Council of Galicia assumes the obligation it has to develop a plan to preserve, protect and place these assets in value, incorporating, in addition, in the budget plan sufficient to make it effective. I think it's a reality that needs, independently, I say, that in parallel with both the cataloguing and the development itself and the application of that conservation, protection and value-setting plan, if the necessary procedures are to be initiated — which is the third point that we incorporate, and that's what the Marea Group picks up in its resolution — to push that candidacy in front of Unesco. But bearing in mind, and I believe that reality also in that sense puts it more clearly, which is a background career. There are enough examples: even at the last plenary session the councillor was here announcing that the catalogue file of the Sacred Ribeira as a good cultural interest will not begin until summer. In fact, a couple of days ago Mr. Feijóo went there to take a picture of Mr. Baltar to announce exactly the same to us. Or, for example, the initiation, that is, the opening, the beginning of that cataloguing file as well of cultural interest of the Eiros Cave, which is the only archaeological deposit of our country that has cave art paintings, and which, in addition, places us as the epicenter of that art in which it has to do with the northwest peninsula, has not even begun until a few days ago, and we had to wait, precisely, to initiate that dossier of good of cultural interest of the Eiros cave, eight years, and even that the cellar has presented a judicial demand to push Junta to comply with the prevailing legality, with its legal obligation. In that sense, we hope that we will be able to accept our approaches and, I say, that, in some ways, and with the horizon placed at the beginning of the procedures necessary to apply for the heritage of humanity, the Union will begin from now on to assume the responsibility it has, first cataloging and then preserving, protecting and valuing those valuable examples of our country, such as petroglyphs. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mrs. Chao, allow me first to tell you that I fully agree with your approach and with all that you have commented here on the culture policy of the Galician Union. It is enough to say that the entire budget of the Council, including the salaries of officials, exactly everything, is 1.2% of the entire budget of the Board. It gives an idea of the importance that culture has for the People's Party, which is essentially for it, as it has always been, an element of propaganda, something that remains well, and that, therefore, let's say it gives a beautiful context to the situation, but nothing deeper than this. The same thing that brings us here right now, which, of course, we're going to support. We absolutely agree that all of the art is worth, it has the necessary merits, to be the heritage of humanity, and, in addition, at this time, we know perfectly that Galicia has one of the greatest concentrations of petroglyphs in Europe, which, in addition to the trial of researchers, have their own personality, in front of other outbreaks of the European West, not only by the amount, but also by the representations of animals and weapons, which are throughout Galicia, with a higher concentration in the Lower Ries; but the various investigations that are multiplying in the last decade are discovering many more, also in the southern area of Ourense or in the inner area of Lugo. The most well known are, undoubtedly, those of Campo Lameiro, but that doesn't mean they're the only ones, which are impressive, by their quantity and quality. There's an archaeological park there; it's open, at last, I don't have time to touch it, but at some point we'll have to speak again in this Parliament about its management, the concept of its management, but at least it's there. But petroglyphs, as we all know, are a heritage element that needs very special protection. Cultural associations in defense of our country's heritage are constantly denouncing the abandonment of the heritage as a whole, but also in particular of petroglyphs, because they are a difficult element to preserve, that's true. They're in the open air, and, with weather conditions like ours, they're hard to conserve, it's true; but, of course, the harder it is to keep them if nothing is done; that is, if there's no active conservation policy. And we all know — and the Galician Union I say that it is the first thing to know — that petroglyph protection is not a protection for use, just as it protects the heritage of an hermit or a church. Petroglyphs, such as rock art, need a transversal policy that should be leading the Councillory of Culture — which is not doing so — both with the rest of Galician Union and with the municipalities. And I set a fundamental example: the forestry policy of this country. The forest policy of this country does not take into account rock art: it does not take into account the existence of petroglyphs, mammoths or other elements, because, for example, forestry restocking should not be allowed in any way next to the remnants of rock art, petroglyphs; there should be some protection conditions that they do not have. But the same is true of allowing jobs on the mountain without any kind of preventive measure, doing uncontrolled works, opening up forest clues with no control... why? Because, as you said, there isn't even a catalogue; we don't have, it seems, lies, but we don't have a comprehensive catalogue of rock art and petroglyphs in Galicia, which we must start to do. But we must also have this transversal maintenance policy. Because of not having, we don't even have something that would be easy and fundamental: a photographic record of all the petroglyphs in the country. Well, so we're going to support... we make an amendment, the result of our knowledge of how the Council of Culture works and, of course, our mistrust, let's say so. So let's do some duty. A—cronological—which begins to do these proceedings within a maximum of three months, and which returns accounts to this Parliament within a maximum of one year, because we already know what is going on with the Sacred River: two years and everything is still not done, and other statements. Just that, but I also tell you, if you don't accept it, we're going to vote in favour of it anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u97	Thank you, President. Good morning. This People's Party is aware that Galicia has an extraordinary set of outdoor rock engravings, which are configured as one of the most outstanding forms of cultural heritage in our country, comparable to other sets of Spain and even Europe. In that sense, we agree with you in the need to ensure its conservation and welcome all the initiatives that call for the valorization of our rock art, a purpose in which the Galician Union is already working. However, we disagree almost all that remains of your proposal. It's not true that there isn't an inventory of petroglyphs. The Council of Culture has been working for more than thirty years — and you should know why some of them have had responsibilities — developing jobs, it said, of exploration for the inventory of archaeological deposits. There are over 2,600 inventory sheets of rupestrian sets; an inventory that continues to grow day by day as a result of the work promoted or authorized by the Council. It is not true that Galician rock art, as you say, is a serious danger of disappearance — so, as a whole — although we recognize that it is threatened by various causes: the backwardness of traditional agricultural life; the presence of pyrophic tree species and rapid growth; or conjunctual situations such as incendiary crises. This structural problem requires structural solutions to correct and mitigate these problems, where the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage is one more piece, but not the only one. It's not true that UNESCO's statement assumes greater protection than they already enjoy, as you should know. Petroglyphs already count on the highest degree of protection by the law ministry. By Ministry of Law, the Spanish Historical Heritage Act and the Galician Cultural Heritage Act, they are generally declared BIC. And above these statements, the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage develops specific work to establish its areas of protection, which are incorporated into the different urban planning. We believe that the protection and placing in value of the heritage of Romanian Rupestro art cannot go through a statement by UNESCO. A statement such as the one requested would be the final consequence of a process, and you, in your proposal, are starting home by the roof. Even the BNG noticed this, and that's why he took the plan with his amendment. In our view, at this point in time, circumstances are not given in order to meet the criteria and preconditions that UNESCO demands. But we don't lock ourselves to the possibility of declaration, but we believe that the approach to study has to be different from what you proposed. We bet for a joint work between administrations in a pyramidal way and we don't flout the possibility of presenting a joint candidacy with the border regions that share similar characteristics with our heritage like Asturias or northern Portugal, but for nothing Cantabria or the Spanish Levante. And, above all, we do not share their claim that this party considers investing in culture not profitable, because if anyone bet on the profitability of the rock heritage it was the Government of the People's Party, which has set in motion a space of study, research and interpretation of the Spanish Rupester Art as is Campo Lameiro, among other actions. I would like to point out that you accuse Junta of cutting into culture in times of crisis, but, look, Junta had to cut across the whole budget of the autonomous community because the situation was unsustainable. But you know what? There is something worse than crop cutting to get out of the crisis: it is to have resources in the crisis itself and not to know how to use them; it is to have budget in culture and not to manage it; it is to have cultural equipment closed by management deficit. And that's your group you know, because you can ask the mayor of Santiago why he's been closing the art center of Rupestro's interpretation in Villestro and who's cataloging Santiago's petroglyphs and its surroundings. [[Applause]] The Galician Union will continue to work in conservation, protection, value-added and management of the heritage and the Catalan Rupestic Art so that, in fact, on a nearby horizon, it can be part of the world heritage, but in a realistic context, with a defined strategy and with certain mechanisms of co-responsibility. As soon as you work on this line, the Board will continue its work on applications that are now part of the indicative list, and on those that have the potential for their degree of development. And if I may, I end up with a joke. Mr. Nogarda will surely be pleased to be the source of his inspiration, but he may miss the references to the cities you omit in his presentation, which, by the way, are two different, are not one: Barakaldo and Getxo. It would be good if the next time you use an article, Mrs. Chao, to inspire your proposal, you name the sources, not just copy them, because in culture the plagiarism is very poorly seen. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u99	A spook, Mrs. Antonio, a spook you've got used to in the Commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u100	Quiet. Quiet, everybody. Quiet. Quiet, please! Mrs. Chao is speaking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u101	The hope that you have gotten us used to in the Committee on Culture, voting against all the initiatives we have taken, taking on a real role. You vote against things that know you have to vote that yes, as they have done with the Easter season and, as they don't mind doing today, with the declaration of humanity's heritage of Rupester art. A spook. You didn't give here a single reason; look at me as optimistic. It's true that I thought I was going to touch Mr. Fernández Gil, I didn't realize that in matters of heritage it's you who assumes browns. But what I was convinced was that today they wouldn't have the hard face to come up here and vote against something that there's no single objective reason to vote against. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They didn't give any reason to explain voting against. You really don't mind being complicit in the lust and abandonment of our cultural heritage? Can you deny here the relevance of the data you have commented on? Do you really think it is possible to shut off budgetary investment in the conservation of the heritage itself? Is conservation free? No, it doesn't come out for free, obviously not. In the face of the popular party's cultural policy, the red lists drawn up by associations and collectives of heritage defence in Galicia continue to increase. As you know, these red lists are lists that include those assets and assets of the heritage that are at grave risk of degradation, deterioration or disappearance. Lists that draw up a scientific commission composed of experts on the subject on the basis of criteria such as the historical and architectural importance of the good or the state in which it is located. Among the various that we can find and the lack of an official list of the Board, or, if it exists, unknown, we encourage it to be published immediately on the website, updated so that we can all get to know it, because if it's something thirty years ago it will understand that it has no validity, because each year new discoveries are made; so I encourage it, if it exists, to post it. But as long as it doesn't exist, it has to be civil society that, as always, covers the shame of the People's Party's Government in the conservation of heritage. So we have organizations like Galician Heritage or Spain Ourstra that prepare those red lists. And, according to them, on the last list we have to talk about more than 20 items in danger, according to Hispania Nostra. More complete is the red list that makes the aforementioned Galego Heritage Association, which has been catalogued about 9,000 cultural goods throughout the country that include on its red list nearly 100 treasures of our past in imminent danger; imminent danger, danger, doesn't say in Marea, the associations that are responsible for defending cultural heritage. You went up here and said we were making up by talking about heritage conservation. Turns out we haven't invented anything, we listen to those who know, which you don't like. There's more. What these lists show is not only the state of abandonment, but also the lack of responsibility of the Galician Union. What can't be is that they have to be amateurs who draw up conservation lists; that's their responsibility and you don't assume it. Too bad this data doesn't encourage them to think about how much is left to do, and it only leads them to self-comprehensiveness. Too bad it won't be like that. All we have left is to wait for what they always do here, to say no and then a few days later they say, "Oh, sorry, we're wrong, we're rectified, like they did to the Eiros Cave." All right, rectification is wise people, but what's better is that they really commit themselves to defending culture, that they don't treat culture as a collateral matter, that it doesn't matter to crush, as if it didn't have to do with economic development, job creation or people's rights. It's their policies that hinder access to culture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u103	...and for many rounds he won't distract his attention talking about the Town Hall of Santiago and the Town Hall of Coruña. We're talking about the mismanagement of the cultural heritage that his council has; he doesn't say En Marea, civil society says it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u105	So with regard to amendments, we're going to come up with a deal with the BNG to assume two of its points and we're going to accept the amendment proposed by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u106	Thank you. I understand you accept two points from the amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block. Two points? [[Mrs. Chao Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] They traded it. Okay, right. They'll get me into the transaction. Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the cuts presented by the State Budget Bill for 2017 in relation to investments in Galicia, as well as in social matters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u107	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u108	Good morning. The issue of 2017's budgets is part of the Government's memorial of aggravations of the People's Party of Mr. Rajoy, which does nothing but grow over the past few years and grows, this memorial of aggravations, with complicity, with the submission and servitude of Mr. Feijóo's People's Party. We could talk here about AP-9, which is already more than repetitive, isn't it? The veto of the People's Party on processing, the scam, the endless policy of the highway, which coincides, in addition, with the multimillionaire rescue of highways, among them the four self-portraits of Madrid, rescued with 3,500 million euros, which will be placed in state budgets for 2017 and 2018. The aggravating local and autonomic financing system that suffers from our country; the aggravating delay and succession of mistakes and failures with respect to VA, which, in addition to the more aggravating, is a second-class stroke, a single-way stroke and without electrifying much of its layout. That's right, that's right. Also the aggravation of non-compliances and non-execution of budgets between 2012 and 2016, which left no more than 50% of the amounts initially budgeted. So it's not worth putting money in budgets when then they don't even run for the most part. In 2015 — where there was no government in functions, by the way — 60% of the works planned for the high-speed train were left unimplemented. And in 2016 the Ministry of Development invested 43% of its budgets: of 1,363 million invested 586. I don't know what they want to call it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, but it seems to us, of course, aggravating to our country. And now we arrive at the 2017 budget and continue the raids, continue the aggravations, continue the discrimination with the complicit silence of the Welsh PP, even with applause. Because Mr. Feijóo seemed to leap from joy when he saw the budgets, because I knew there were some matches there for the AVE to arrive with I don't know how many years of delay. What proves this is that they put partisan interests ahead of Galicia's interests. And, of course, they have a submissive, helpful and subordinate attitude to the decisions of the People's Party of Madrid. In the case of the Ministry of Development, the cutout of these budgets is 440 million euros, 440 million euros we'll know later, then we'll say where they're going. We went from 1.363 million to 924 million. And of course, while we are suffering this situation we hear Mr. Rajoy announce millionaire investments in Catalonia. It was recently, in March, when he spoke of 4,000 million to invest on the nearby train -- is this all about the nearby train, that you already announced in 2010 for Galicia and what did you know about? -- well, 4,000 million for the nearby train in Catalonia, 677 million for the Tarragona-Vandellos railway line, 850 million for the road network, and so on the multimillionaire investments that Mr. Rajoy's government announces in Catalonia, while here applying the cut. Or we can also talk about the agreements recently signed between the PNV and Mr. Rajoy's Government, also to approve millionaire investments in Euskadi. An agreement he made to tell Mr Urkullu that he was very pleased with this rain of millions, for example, the return of 1.4 billion, that come out of the common pocket, 1.4 billion by the Basque Cup of the years 2007-2015, or the reduction in this year of the Basque Farm's accounts by 500 million to the state. Either investments in railway infrastructures too, mainly worth 3,380 million; or also the approved electricity tariff for the Basque industry, because you are committed to saying no, but the reality is that in this agreement there is an electric tariff for Basque companies to pay 50 million euros less from 2018 onwards, and when we ask for something here they say it can't be, that can't be; yes, it just agreed with the PNV, precisely, an electric tariff for the Basque Country. Not to mention any of the grants they approved for festivals, for cultural events, etc. And while Euskadi receives this rain of millions, here it seems to conform to that solution that happens, we can say, from the Pontevedres People's Party, from the Marian apparitions. You propose marine appearances as a solution; I don't know whether they refer to that magical axis that connects Pontevedra with Fatima and with Lourdes or whether they refer to those marine, periodic occurrences, by Ribadumia when he does his sporting exhibition, Mr. Rajoy. I don't know what appearances you're talking about. But the appearances we want are the appearances of budgets respecting this country and defending the interests of this country. Those are the appearances that we defend, not the Marian apparitions. [[Applause]] And yet there is still the final trache, which is the canary trache, still the negotiation with New Canary Islands, which will also mean more millionaires for this community to the detriment of investments in our country. This is not to mention also the social cuts that have matched these budgets and all the budgets of the last few years, and the cuts also in these budgets of spending in culture; I don't know why you have this diseased obsession, that special persecution of culture and language, of course, in our country. I don't know if they're marine occurrences, but they're, of course, unreal, more than 200,000 million. Or the amount you provide for the payment of the public debt, which is 9% of the expenditure: more than 32,000 million euros, which is the second largest share. At the same time, budgets also clearly set out the priorities of the People's Party: military expenditure and the Royal House. Here is where there is money, for military spending and for the King's House we're going to increase budgets. In fact, I don't know if you want to encourage these cultural tours of the royal guard, which will take a tour of Ourense — you will have to pay for these issues. But the thing that gets more attention, which is also more aggravating, and more outrageous, is that the bigger game is precisely that of military spending; is that you are very submissive, very helpful and very obedient. You have already told NATO and you have already told Mr. Trump that they had to raise military spending to 2%, and yes, Mrs. Minister of Defence and Mr. Rajoy have already begun to comply with orders and have already set those increases. Well, in that amount of trouble we could also talk about the evolution of state budgets in recent years. Indeed, because here there was an increase — you don't really like to talk about it — in investments in Galicia until 2009-2010, which reached the peaks, which exceeded the €2,000 million investment in Galicia, precisely when the BNG supported state budgets. I don't know if they have the graph, but I can pass them a copy to let them know, and then we see the descending curve of Mr. Feijóo, the Feijóo effect, which leads us to be at the indices almost back in 2004, and we don't say anything anymore about the Aznar era, which didn't even reach the EUR 1 billion investment in Galicia. That is the reality, not to mention all those billions, 2,000 million euros, that have ceased to invest for the non-compliance of the budgets in the years 2012-2016. So we propose to you an agreement that would mean an act of justice with this country, a compensation for all those injuries: an investment plan in our country worth 3,600 million euros to develop in the years 2017-2019. That would be a really beneficial agreement for our country, which should also lead to a negotiation in this legislation of the transfer of competences, related to these matters: with the railway, with the improvement of the road network, with the modernization and improvement of the airport network. We propose this agreement to them and we propose a concrete agreement, in the text of this initiative on State budgets this year, which says: "The Galician Parliament agrees in its resolution to move them to Congress of Deputies and the Central Government to reject the State budget project for 2017 for the cut in investments in Galicia and for the social cuts they present." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u109	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a response on the labour market, the president of the Union has thought cheerfully about the internal life of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, I also want, on a much more transversal initiative, which is about budgets and which therefore affects the whole of the country's economic policy, about the internal life of ours and about some other. Look, we don't have to play the ball to nobody the militants of the Socialist Party, lords of the People's Party, because we vote in primarys and in urn our leaders. There's a difference with you, I don't know if you remember when there was a president who said he was very proud of the photos of the Azores. [[Applause]] That president, who is true that he had two to choose: one, who was the chosen one, whose maximum policy is to learn to look elsewhere, especially at this moment of these delicate cases of thin rain corruption, sort of poalla that is wetting the associative tissue of the People's Party; and the other that was Mr. Rato, of whom we are going to talk at last, and, of course, with all the presumption of innocence everything seems to indicate that there was some heterodox behavior in tax and financial terms. So, given the human capital they have, they shouldn't worry too much about the ball that we socialist Party militants do; I think they have a lot more to worry about than you do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u111	He'll have little time left for the social part.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u112	I'm going, I'm going, I'm answering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u113	No, it's just that he'll have little time left for the social part, social investments, which is an important issue. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u114	I will support — it is very important, Mr President —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u115	Yes, yes. Get on with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u116	...I've moved Mr Bará that the Socialist Group will support the BNG initiative, and therefore I'm already standing. From now on, I'm going to keep repositioning myself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Look, these budgets pick up, as always, a model of society. And there are two ways that people live, I don't say that they live well anymore — because we've heard the other day as it was a luxury that... well, if they get 400 euros for what the fuck we want more -- but that they live — excuse the excruciating, I'm sorry. You're forgiven, thank you very much. There are two, one is paid, and there you have already taken care of, first of the freezing of the minimum interprofessional salary, in December 2011, just recently entered the Moncloa; I think they haven't had time to see the decoration yet, to see whether it was changed or not, like Mrs. Botella. Or else, later, work reform. This was the mechanism of allocating wealth in this country through wages. And then there's the other side, which is seen public services, and, of course, there I think we don't need to talk about cuts. I don't think we need to talk about cuts because it's obvious that we can call them cost adjustments; there were many names, many metaphors and many synonyms, but indeed cuts. So, what does that mean? Well, this means two headlines. I'm sorry, I like the hemero library, I like the written press, I like the photocopies, I'm a little old. Labour costs intensify their fall and in today's newspaper Expand, little suspected of Marxism-Leninism, as you well know, economic acceleration: "Employers say the economy lives its best time." I don't think there's much more to say. I can continue to take the matter seriously, Mr President, but it is beyond a doubt that the social and economic model is being defended, and I — I have said it many times — do not share it, but I would like it to be said. I'd like it to contain us with the budgets that are approved in Galicia, in Madrid and where they rule what they want to do. I'd like you to tell us what they wanted to do with the Navalcarnero train, because the other day -- I don't see much on television -- I saw a crack there, in the middle of the castle steppe, which, apparently, took seven years; a sort of Don trench, but finally in Madrid. So this is what I would ask them to do, because they also miss the truth -- I don't say "no," because I know it's a taboo word, because the memory of budgets presented in Madrid to the Congress of Deputies and the 2017-2020 Stability Programme presented to Brussels is different. But it's not different in a tenth, or in two; it's conceptually different, it's different in political objectives -- finally, it's a massive weapon of deception as, by the way, they're becoming most of the discourses and the political practice of the People's Party since they rule. Look, it reaches this level on the question that right now, we're growing to 3% of GDP... If we grow to 3% of GDP and labour costs are falling, where is that growth going? I would like the spokesman, who represents the People's Party, to tell us, because I stop asking that question. I am also sorry to ask the question — which Mr Feijóo puts on the demographics — why this is the only autonomous community where unemployment is lower than membership in social security. I've been doing it for months, years, with zero success. But it happens, it's an objective fact that happens, and then we'd like to know why, because some differential element will exist. And by the way, again, look, check the data. I understand that when we use inter-annuals here, you like monthly; when we use monthly, you prefer inter-annual; when we use EPA, you prefer registered unemployment. Finally, all possible statistical combinations. But the fact — that I still use inter-annual data, as always...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u118	...even in addition to EPA, which Mr. Leicega said and is objectively so—is that they are Eurostat's official data and therefore I humbly claim the right to use Eurostat's official data, because they are the only ones that allow us to compare us in R & D, for example, with Ukraine and Turkey. And membership in Social Security last year in Spain grew by 3.8% and in Galicia by 2.2%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u119	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u120	So it's good to talk about other political parties, it's good to lie about the data, and of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u121	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u122	...it's good to lie to the kind of society that defends itself; a broken budget...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u123	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u124	Good morning. From today in seven days it is May 17th, and that's why I want to bring here, to the place where the sovereignty of the Greek people resides, the beautiful and combative words of one of the country's great poets about the most precious good a people has, their language: "The proletarian tongue of my people/ I speak because yes, because I like it,/ because I love it and I want it and give it to me to win/ [...] Speak the word mother,/ the word of the grandparents that we have dead,/ and be, with the raised face,/ sailors, lingoage peasants,/ row i plow, bow and row always./ I speak it because yes, because I like/ and I want to be with my people,/ near my good men who suffer long/ a story told in another language." Celsus Emilio Ferreiro speaking of the Long Stone Night that suffered the language and the Greek people in the 40s of the Frankish dictatorship; one of the most bloody in recent European history and which seems to continue to project its black shadow from the Peace of Meirás. [[Murmurs.]] I'm on it. Maybe the English language doesn't interest the People's Party, we do. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u125	That poem doesn't get interrupted by anyone, but now, if you can go to the subject, it looks good to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u126	The first qualification I want to use to assess the state's general budgets for 2017 is that of which they are surprising. One hears the government's official speech and we're in the fourth year of economic recovery, the recession went back and in 2017 we're going back to the same level of GDP that we had in front of the recession. One would think that with this macroeconomic scenario we would have an expansive budget that had begun to rebuild the destruction of the crisis, that it had begun to recover gradually, gradually, the level of resources for public services, social protection, or that it had served to capitalise on the economy of the state and Galicia. This is leaving the clippings behind and starting to regain lost rights. But it's not like that. Budgets for 2017 continue on the path of cuts and austerity. It is reduced to €5,000 million compared to the year 2016. So that you understand well: the economy increases, nominally, to 5% and the budget decreases to 4%. Montoro is able to say that in 2017 the highest tax collection will be achieved in the history of Spain, but despite that we must continue to cut. Priority is not people, it's again, another year, reducing the deficit and paying the debt. The Troica, Article 135, the neoliberal ideology of the Government party always go in the same direction: cutting public spending, damaging the state of well-being. It is as if the economy goes well, that the economy is in recession, it is always the same: in the crisis, because the cuts are forced by circumstances; in the expansion, because yes, because that is defined in the very stability program presented by the People's Party, the Government of Spain, in Brussels, in which between 2017 and 2020 plans to reduce the burden of spending on education, education, as the percentage of GDP, and reaching its minimum level. A second qualification is that of decapitalization of the Spanish economy and the Greek economy, because the adjustment variable, once again, is public investment. The third qualification is that of harassment to your country and — and I will say it because I feel that way — contempt for the president of this country. Words are missing here to describe reality. In the fourth year of expansion, with the highest public income ever achieved, the Central Government cuts 32% of the investment in Galicia, 440 million euros less. Before that, BNG's partner moved on to what year we'd be talking about and until that year we'd have to go back to see a similar figure, and it was in 2004. But he has forgotten a fundamental data, which is price variation. In real terms, we have to go back to 1997 to find an investment figure similar to the year 2017; a 20-year retreat is what the Central Government has caused. The central government mistreats Galician Union, despises Feijóo, mocks the party that gives it the only absolute majority that has the PP in the state. My solidarity with the militia and with the leaders of the People's Party so they have to endure. Not only is it cut into investment, they're antisocial assumptions; I'm going to say, the 760,000 pensioners in Galicia are cheated on these budgets. Their pension is 0.25%, and inflation is 2.75%. They lose 2.5 points of purchasing power. The PP was right in 2011 when it criticized the freezing of pensions. What does it say now when they are reduced in real terms 2.5 points? What does it say now when the 2 euros that go up the month aren't useful to pay for what the butter can't get? They're being abused by these antisocial budgets by public employees, because, with a rise of 1%, they're losing 1.75 points of purchasing power.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u128	Didn't you say here the advisor that we were starting to recover the rights of employees and public servants? —it's over. —It's over. I'll say it with some pain. These budgets are the budgets of political corruption, because only then can one qualify the unacceptable practice of buying — how to buy! — parliamentary support using public resources; an obscene exercise in which millions of euros are quantified the vote of each of the Members who join the majority of parliamentarians. In that sense, we support the BNG GNP, because we say no to that GNP, as has already been done by the Members and Members of En Marea in the Congress of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u129	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. We are faced with a non-novocious, atypical proposal in which it is a chamber, because basically what it transfers is the frustration of the Nationalist Block of Galicia that it cannot present and debate an amendment to all budgets in the Congress of Deputies. And this doesn't seem good or bad to me, we just accepted the charming debate, but I just wanted to reflect: in the context of the autonomous state, what would the Galician Nationalist Block say if the fourth force of the Congress of Deputies, which tried to enter this House and could not for the popular will, was proposing a GNP and saying how budgets should be made in this House? I simply understand the frustration of the bloc that it cannot make a complete amendment in the debate on budgets and that it brings it to this House, but I believe that, simply institutionally, of course, from the People's Group we feel perfectly represented by all the elected Members in Galicia, and mainly by the majority, who are the Members of the People's Group. [[Applause]] The idea of this initiative clearly has two components, leaving aside electric tariffs and corruption — which, of course, now negotiate in a parliament and approve something is also corruption — has two approaches: the first is the victim — he has spoken of the arrogance — and the second is the request that the budgets not be approved. First, is there reason for victimism? Obviously, we do not understand that State budgets are a auction; they are an instrument for territorial cohesion. Here we have talked about investment peaks that logically depend on the works that are being developed over a multi-year programming. I'm going to deal precisely with these two matters. First, in the short term: the territorial investments for 2017 give 925,000 million euros of investment to Galicia, so that we are the fifth community of the seventeen; per capita, we are the second: 341 euros per capita; Catalonia, 155; Canary Islands, 126 and Basque Country, 176. If we are praising the negotiating capacity of Basques, canaries and Catalans, surely the president of the Union is four times, or twice, at least, more praiseworthy than the Basque leaders, Catalans or canaries. Of the total we represent 11.5%, figure in these budgets that can be compared with 5% or 6% that represents the population, territory and gross domestic product of Galicia over the Spanish total; or with 8%, that you said was the target when the Statute reform was requested. On the execution: last year they were executed, with political paralysis, 585 million euros; it turns out now, if they are executed, they will be 925, an increase of 40%. That is why the importance of execution and that we applaud the Joint Committee's initiative to carry out a follow-up commission on the execution of State budgets. In the long term — he has assumed, in addition, the demand for what was done by the Government of the State, even when the Socialist Party ruled, since Mr Losada seems to be targeting victimism —: in the last decade — official data of the general budget of the State — Galicia is the fourth autonomous community in which it is most invested, for a total of 15,647 million euros, after Andalusia, Catalonia and Castile and León, which, by any of the three variables — population, territory and GDP — are well above them, as you know. According to academic studies — IVIE, Valencian Institute of Economic Research — Galicia in the last decade had 7.5 — reaching 8 in 2013 — of the budgets of the Spanish total; by the way, removing the water from franchise — democracy and autonomy brought and covered the ejacism – which left Galicia as the 15th autonomous community. And, I insist, we are now the sixth in public and physical capital in our autonomous community. Thirdly, if it's not worth the academic data or the budgetary data, in the long term, tender: Seopan, the builders. The average of the General Administration in Galicia in recent years, from 2008 to 2016, was 12.4 of the invitation to tender for the total General Administration of the State; the average of the Union was 6.6. We're talking about 856 million euros of average/year, and Junta, 370. A total of EUR 1,700 million per year, representing that in Galicia it is visited and tendered — directly to 9.2 of the total of Spain — I insist, over 5% or 6% of population, territory and GDP —. Is that a lot or a little bit? I believe that the State is working, redistributing and cohesion through public works. It looks good to us. Some will ask for more, and I wish there were more. We know the tide is less. Why? Because he has just tabled an amendment to the Congress of Deputies — Amendment 3611 — in which he withdraws EUR 5 million on the highway coming from León to Valdeorras and takes away Monforte's circumference because the works, by the way, are not consistent with the local population. But instead of referring them to other works of Galicia, what he does is to take them to the Continent Fund, which must mean that The Tide thinks there is no better work than that one to do and that, in addition, we have to get that work out. [[Murmurs.]] Well... [[Applause]] Secondly, what would happen if we were all crazy, if we said yes, that budgets are not approved, and that Madrid decides, on the basis of the request made by the Galician Parliament, supported by the House, not to process budgets? This year Galicia would lose EUR 247 million less, 3.6 of GDP, of the liquidations of the autonomic financing system. Budgets include 329 million in vocational training and employment, in active employment and dependency policies, which could not be materialised in the exercise of what we are talking about; 329 million, second consequence. Third consequence: replacement rates in the public sector. At least 1,200 squares could not be convened this year in Galicia, 800 of them in health care. Squares grow, also in justice, 7 %...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u132	...which is the one that really fights corruption. And finally, fourth place, pensions. We're talking about pensions. In the State budgets, as there is a deficit in social contributions in relation to benefits, there are EUR 10 billion in transfers of public taxes from the State budget to the Social Security box. Anyone who talks about ensuring pensions that pensions cannot be paid unless this transfer is made which is incorporated into budgets. It's over, Mr. President. We, of course, are not going to say that these are ideal budgets; yes, we are going to say that without these redistributive budgets, that they sink into a relationship that Galicia is interested in, because we are in a state of solidarity and equity, it is obvious that we would have less investment, less social spending, especially in Galicia, less recovery and more unemployment, and, therefore, masters of the Block, we will vote rather than on their own initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u133	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u134	Mr. Puy says BNG is presenting a new initiative. Indeed, we are for innovation; innovation in all areas, I+D+i, yes sir. We also believe that it needs, of course, imagination, innovation, freshness in this Parliament, and I do not see any problem with this Parliament's pronouncement on the state's investments in Galicia. Otherwise, what is this Parliament for? If you don't talk about a matter as fundamental as state investments in Galicia, you'll see why we're here. [[Murmurs.]] But you twist the argument, of course. We are not voting here or proposing a vote so that there are no budgets. We propose a vote for an budget to respect this country. We want an budget that respects this country and the people and that allows another development for our country. [[Applause]] That's why we want other budgets. And you speak of frustration. I think frustration is that it has an important part of the people of Greece when you see these figures, when you see other territories that are negotiating advantages and investments, such as the Canary Islands or the Basque Country, and you see how the People's Party and Mr. Feijóo shut up, grant and applaud these agreements with their ears. So I think there are, of course, more and more people who miss a loud voice in the defence of Galician Parliament. Because you, of course, the twelve Members and Members who have there don't know if they go, if they come, if they are, if they are, or what they paint there because they don't paint anything, because what they say is amenable to everything they tell them. And here we see how, in addition, you dare applaud a 440 million-euro cut that brings us back to the blackest stage of the Aznar government era, when investments in Galicia hit bottom. And they also applaud that the execution of budgets over all these years has left without running more than 2,000 million euros. We are proposing measures and an agreement to recover those investments, to make an investment plan and infrastructure; a bet decided by the railway, the improvement of the road network — which needs to address issues such as road safety — or the modernisation of airports and ports. I'd like to imagine that you would say if this Central Government agreement with the PNV were approved by another government other than the People's Party. What would Mr. Feijó say? What would the German People's Party say in the face of such an aggression? What if the reduction of these 440 million euros to another government other than the People's Party, what would you say? What would Mr. Feijóo say? I'd like to imagine what they'd say. Of course, I don't think they applauded the ears, as they're doing now. So what we ask you to do when you vote on this proposal is to choose which side you are on, whether you are on the side of the interests of the People's Party of Madrid and Mr. Rajoy, or whether you are on the side of the interests of Galicia and the Greek people. We, of course, know which side we are on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u135	Thank you, Mr Bará. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and six other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the impetus of the use of liquefied natural gas in maritime transport
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u136	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u137	Mr Tellado has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. We, who are on Galicia's side, always defend that Galicia had to have energy autonomy and always defend that Galicia had to have a regasifier plant. We didn't defend him on one side of the river and the other, we said no, we defended him from Ferrol, also from Mugardos, from the Galician Parliament, and from the Government of the Galician Union. Therefore, to question that the majority group in Galicia, the majority group in this House, defends Galicia's general interest is to question what we have always done from a party that — today I come to talk about the Mugardos gas plant — in Mugardos said "yes", Ferrol said "no" and in Santiago sometimes said "yes" and sometimes "no", until he played the government. And when he played to rule, Mr Bará, fortunately, the BNG Industry Advisor set up a rope and supported the gas plant. Now you don't know if you support her or are against her, because it depends on the wind, on how the wind blows. So don't ask us for lessons of coherence, don't ask us for lessons of seriousness in the plots, because your party is a sail that has fewer and fewer people under and that has, of course, very little movement with the wind. And, of course, what they don't do is listen to people. [[Murmurs.]] Look, nine years ago, in 2007, his industrial activity began at the North-West Regasifier plant, Reganosa, a fundamental infrastructure for our country's energy model. Spain has six regasifiers; Reganosa is one of six. In total there are seventeen regasifying plants throughout Europe. So we're talking about a strategic energy infrastructure for Galicia, a strategy for Spain and a strategy for Europe. Reganious proposed an investment of EUR 400 million. It is attended by several Greek companies: by Gadisa, by Atlantic Forests, by Sonatrach Algerians and First State, and the Galician Union has a 24% share in the shareholding; a participation which I believe it believes the importance that the German Government attaches to this infrastructure which is key to Galicia's energy autonomy. In 2015 Reganosa billed 60 million euros and got a benefit of 15 million and a half euros. Reganosa gives direct employment to 100 workers and generates 150 indirect jobs and 15,500 induced jobs. From the Mugardos plant, liquefied natural gas is submined to 140 companies in the northwest peninsula, which depends on 15,500 jobs. The implantation of the regasifier enabled the development of the combined cycle plants of the Bridges and Soap, two facilities that would be impossible without Reganosa. The bridges would have closed without Reganosa's gas plant. Reganosa is also a source of wealth for the municipality of Mugardos. That's how BNG was made clear in Mugardos when he ruled, when he had the mayor's office, and from there the support of Mr Barcia's mayor. Reganosa is fundamental to the municipality of Mugardos, where it is located. The annual contribution of the plant for IBI and IAE exceeds EUR 1 million annually; a fundamental economic insurmountable for a small municipality such as Mugardos. In addition, the presence of Reganosa has allowed the yard repair sector of the Ferrol River to be fully occupied. Since Reganosa is in operation the repair sector benefits, and constantly the image is to see in and out gas stations that repair in the installations of Navantia and Ferrol. Full occupation in repairs on the Navantia-Fene-Ferrol shipyards. Ladies and gentlemen, natural gas is a renewable energy source that has a lot of future. In 2016 the national demand for natural gas grew by 2% and industrial demand recorded an increase of 3%. The European Union maintains an emission reduction strategy to convert natural gas as a vehicle fuel for the future in road transport, but also in maritime transport. The use of gas as energy in maritime transport is not yet extended, but it's a reality, a possibility that will undoubtedly revolutionise the sector by reducing emissions and improving consumption efficiency. In this context emerges in 2013 the project of natural gas hub liquefied in the northwest of the Iberian Peninsula; a project promoted by the Unity of Galicia and participated by the University of Santiago de Compostela, by the Harbour Authority of Ferrol-San Cibrao, by Navantia and by Reganosa. Currently, the project to create a liquefied natural gas hub in the north-west already has the design of means, infrastructure and procedures to be able to supply liquefied natural gas as fuel to ships that navigate the Atlantic corridor as well as satellite plants in ports and on the nearby coast. Finally, it is about converting liquefied natural gas into standard fuel in maritime transport. What is about taking advantage of the potentialities that the Mugardos gas plant brings to Galicia and Spain. There is a work already underway by the Galician Union, in collaboration with the University of Santiago, with the Harbour Authority of Ferrol-San Cibrao, with Navantia, with Reganosa; a work already started since 2013, and what we propose is that the Union maintain its involvement in this project. We hope to be able to count on the support of all groups. Reganious is a tangible reality that generates jobs. Now what we're talking about is taking advantage of all the potentialities of this energy installation. We therefore look forward to the support of all groups of this House for the gasstic hub of the Ferrol River, because it is about supporting Galicia's energy autonomy and supporting a key project for the development of the Ferrolterra region. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Mr Losada Álvarez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we continue on the borders of knowledge, as we are almost always, and the correlation between investments in justice and the fight against corruption tends to be zero. I mean, there may be a lot of anti-corruption taxes and that, at last, that fight weakens for moments. I'm saying this because I've heard that causal relationship before that happens to me, a day like today, especially relevant. Mr Tellado, in the case of the Socialist Group — as I represent this Parliament right now — I have always said that the origin of Reganosa's installation in Mugardos was a source that, we said, clearly linked economic power and political power. I never objected to it, once it was installed, whenever the environmental and labour criteria were met; and that should be at the limit of environmental security and occupational safety. But it is true — and you will have to recognize it with me — that Reganosa's business bet is even geographically very questionable. If you talk to shipowners and people related to the gas business, they say you are in a place of difficult accessibility, even with problems of gas tank size limit. Finally, we all know that there are objective difficulties for that location. And that location was approved because the relationship between business promoters and the political power of the Galician Union at that time was undoubtedly very narrow. I think this is the way it is. Having said that, you'll never hear this voice say that you have to close it, that you have to take it out of the river... finally, I think it's not in the best place, but it's true that, unfortunately, the facts that have been achieved sometimes consolidate unwanted situations. The truth is, then, that I know how to listen to the leaders of the People's Party — I am positive, Mr Tellado — about climate change or the fight against environmental emissions. It's obvious that Rajoy's cousin is already condemned to ostracism; they've definitely erased... Yes, I know I'm a little heavy but, well, I remember a legislation I've been hearing about three times full for four years. So, I'm going to allow myself to be repetitive, I don't know if because of lack of intellectual resources to be innovative or basically also something to provoke, because he also has his post. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, the truth is Rajoy's cousin is in ostracism. [[Laughter]] Mr. Arias Cañete is Commissioner for Climate Change, and we only need Mr. Soria to be commissioner of something similar because, of course, we would already have the whole pousle. In fact, gas is a less polluting energy source. It's not a renewable energy, Mr. Tellado, there's a limited physical gas supply on the planet, except for the fourth dimension or some galactic issue. I understand it, but if it's not, that is, it's not a renewable source, it's a source that actually has a much lower pollutant potential than oil and coal in terms of CO2 emissions to the atmosphere. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we, of course, support the gasification strategy of maritime transport, no doubt. Maritime transport is now one of the largest CO2 emitters. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Everything seems to indicate that with economic recovery, in addition, activity is going to go further. And therefore — I insist — we support the gasification of maritime transport. We're missing some things. First, let us say that this is not inserted into the Energy Strategy for Galicia that we have seen claiming — at least this deputy since the previous legislation or since the previous one, I am no longer very clear of the moment — but that which, by the way, has just adopted Andalusia — sometimes when some things do well—. So, the one we are demanding — and, by the way, they are going against us systematically — I think it would be convenient to insert it there, Mr Tellado. It would be convenient because this would prevent the paralysing of the wind competition, it would prevent what the Minister of Energy said yesterday: "By being Italian, Enel doesn't mind creating unemployment in Spain." I remember an initiative that I brought here about The Bridges, when Enel sold the Latin American division of Endesa and that undoubtedly the peninsula market was not the fundamental one, and they voted against it as well. It also seems that this horse has fallen off the road from Damascus now. But look, Mr. Tellado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u141	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u142	...this idea you're proposing is in a study post in the Senate since 2014, three years ago. We present an amendment that only makes it possible to collect a part of the suggestions that appear in this Senate presentation. So I'm sure that, given that you have an absolute majority in the Senate and you voted in favour of this presentation, you will accept...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u143	Finish, please, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u144	...this amendment. And, I insist, the environmental issues, for us, and the security issues, are fundamental to the plant of Reganosa, of Mugardos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u146	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. Mr. Tellado, whenever you want, out of these limited five minutes, set a place, day and time, and we have a deep debate about Reganosa, starting with the claim to the 2001 project, which you can also read, and we speak long and tense about Reganosa. Since BNG we're not afraid of that debate. I'm not going to give you today — even if you could — lessons of political coherence, transparency, or political decency, which you could, but I won't; I'm going to allow you, if you don't mind, to teach you an aesthetic lesson. And since we've also talked about plagiarism before, because I want to recommend something to you. I don't know if you have drafted the initiative or another Member or Member of the People's Party, but man!, when four literal paragraphs of a news from the Spanish.com on June 17, 2016, at least try a little, at least put the commas right, or quote the source, because the truth is it's a very interesting article. I recommend it to all Members and Members; it is a very educational article for people who are not technical. So, quote him, and so we can see him completely in his amplitude. But going to the question, since time is running, in addition to waiting for them to consider all these aesthetic issues, what does this proposal not speak of law? Because here came the spokesperson of the People's Party who is talking about the suitability or not of the deployment of a liquefied natural gas distribution center in the Greek territory; a litany which, in addition, we have heard since 2013 or 2014, as the Member himself mentioned. But we understand that the core of this bill is not that, nor is it nor is it the suitability or not of the liquefied natural gas itself as fuel, which, as the spokesperson of the People's Party has already advanced, is a fuel that has environmental advantages — no doubt about it — but that, however, we must bear in mind that it is still a type of fossil fuel that is also limited, therefore, in nature, and that although priori is cleaner than others, it also has an impact to be strictly assessed; such an environmental impact, so much so that it has an impact on the processing of the water it requires, which returns chlorinated and colder, as social, as well as the potential risks, as economic as well as the impact it has on transport and storage, which is smaller, but can also have an economic impact on the price of other types of fuels, on the price of the energy system and so much as the cost. But, as I say, the nail is different. This non-law proposal, which is an ambiguous initiative in its resolution and which does not speak clearly what the intentions of the People's Party are, as in so many other matters related to energy, what it really talks about is to intervene in an installation that today is illegal and that the People's Party has sheltered through the back door of a government of the state in functions, just as they did with Ence. We don't forget and don't communicate with mill wheels or democratic fraud that you've done with a government in functions like this. So our position will be abstention because we understand that the debate is not the liquefied natural gas yes or no, nor the distribution center yes or no, but the debate is to support modernization and public investment, you don't know very well what terms and criteria and in an installation that is now illegal, something that I am aware of the various judgments that we have been aware of in recent years. Just by making a brief summary of the last year: as early as March 2016, Supreme Court judgement. It considers the appeal against the judgment of the Madrid High Court of Justice and therefore the prior administrative authorization should be annulled. April 2016, the same court estimates the appeal against the judgement also in Madrid and declares null and void the resolution approving the execution and installation project. May 2016 — the back door, let us remember — that agreement of the Council of Ministers which it does is to exempt from the process of environmental impact assessment, on the basis, in addition, of a tortured argument — which does not give time to explain — that it is not supported by professional, technical and environmental criteria. June 2016, more judgments in the same sense. And in July 2016, too, even as it was about the external emergency plan, precisely by the timely modification of that Mugardos PXOM. In just five minutes it is not possible to enter into the detail and complexities of this issue, but I will summarize it in which we are going to abstain because we understand that in this initiative, as in so many other things that have to do with managing the energy of our country, the People's Party does not speak clearly, and therefore we cannot give approval to the blind for something that is not well defined. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Mr Merlo Lorenzo has the floor on the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Tellado, the bet on creating a hub for liquefied natural gas does not guarantee for nothing the conversion of ships to this fossil fuel, because even if it carries the "natural" collection in its name, it does not cease to be a fossil and polluting fuel whose implementation is not exempt from problems and risks. And it doesn't guarantee it because, unlike what they're exposing in their initiative, the conversion of fuel or nautical diesel engines to the use of liquefied natural gas is neither cheap nor feasible, in most vessels, especially if we talk about the activities dedicated to primary production, which are the ones that mostly surpass our waters. If the justification for presenting the LNP is in reducing emissions and pollution, we would have to take into account that the Air Quality Platform considers that this type of proposals will have no impact on the reduction of emissions from port traffic, which they consider the main focus of pollution in port areas, because it does not change the behaviour of both shipowners and shipowners, which unfortunately in many cases have great difficulties in maintaining their ships, to the most modified for the use of liquefied natural gas. The most direct and simple measure would be to work to be able to demand that ships operating in our waters use particulate or catalyst filters for selective reduction of nitrogen oxides, which is really the problem. On the use of liquefied gas, it's fair to say that today they sail a little over a hundred large ships all over the world with this kind of fuel. Specifically, there's a ro-ro that makes the line between Nantes and Vigo that has been using this fuel since last year, but it doesn't have to see or need the creation of this kind of infrastructure for anything. We would not understand from the point of view of Galicia's interest any initiative that accompanies public investment in infrastructures that are not geared towards the necessary emancipation — from what you were talking about — of our country of dirty, dangerous and polluting fuels, which we should always import and pay. Lexislan to maintain another 50 years — which is about the direct estimate of liquefied natural gas resources in the world’s reserves — the situation of being deficient, without energy, because of fossil fuels. I don't understand. It would be more logical and coherent to bet on measures that affect the direct environmental quality of our rivers and port cities, betting on measures, such as the above mentioned, or others that call for the electrification of our ports, so that the ships connect to the power grid during their loading and unloading process when they are docked. You were speaking, Mr. Tellado, of the energy and Reganosa autonomy in the same sentence. It'll turn out now that the liquefied gas doesn't matter, we don't buy it. I don't share either, nor do I understand that kind of autonomy, when we depend on fossil fuel, which is what makes us energy-deficit, not electricity. From En Marea we already have initiatives on this line because they say we never have proposals. If we have proposals, and we will debate them in this Parliament, because we are committed to the sustainable future and not to patches that seek the profitability of projects like Reganosa. You bring a GNP that has come to be a no-sympathetic attempt to find this company's niche, which is more owned by a businessman than by a member. We mentioned problems that Reganosa's plant is generating in Ferrol. They speak of their excellence, of their work, of their future. They'll talk to the sailors and the fishermen who see themselves affected by this plant, which are over 300; yes, they'll talk to them. The Reganosa plant isn't a dangerous installation inside the Ferrol River, is it? because it was meant to be on the outer coast, but miraculously ended up inside. The initial installation project dates from the 1990s, and was planned to place it on that coast, however, and without knowing why, the Tojeiro Industrial Group, with the support of Manuel Fraga Iribarne, former president of the Board, and the current economic advisor, Mr. José Orza — who also has companies within the Tojeiro Group — signed a United Nations Convention, relocating the plant on the land properties of Tojeiro, next to his Atlantic Forest Company. In this operation José Luis Méndez, former president of Caixa Galicia — this bank that we have rescued among all and now turns out to be Venezuelan — was the former president of Caixa Galicia. Reganosa's relocation says you're not in danger. Well, of course, we have to look at more examples like those that happened elsewhere in the world. Reganosa is a clock pump in the middle of the Ferrol River, next to the houses, 100 meters from the neighbors of Meá; it is near a military arsenal and has a petrochemical complex with more than 300,000 cubic metres of stored fuels and chemicals. You imagine a gas-like ship, of those carrying this product, this gas to Reganosa, has a problem, has a damage. Those LNG-loaded gas tankers entering the Ferrol stream cannot comply with the navigation regulations in case of emergency, given the conditions of the stream; they cannot comply. It seems that Junta behaves more like a commercial agent of Reganosa than to look after the interests of citizens. It doesn't seem very useful for the citizen to have Mr. Vice President, Mr. Rueda, and Mr. Tahoces in the Council of Reganosa. We must remind you that in 2016 the Supreme Court determined the illegality of the Reganosa plant through three judgments. The plant is in breach of all environmental and safety legislation. They don't try to legitimize a harmful plant for the Ferrol creek under the umbrellas of growth in employment and ecology, because it doesn't stick. You don't care about ecology.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u149	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u150	...and the job is not guaranteed. Bring this camouflaged initiative to legitimize the situation of a plant like that of Reganosa, and I must tell you, to make it clear our position, that they will not find support in our group for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Merlo. Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor by the non-law group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. I will devote more time to the amendment of the Socialist Party than to Mr. Losada. But I do have to tell you something. You spoke 10 seconds of your amendment, the rest of you were making a Tertullian, a commentator of the present and how you were going in the morning. I'll devote more time to your amendment than you did. But I do have to tell you one thing: if Reganosa is in Mugardos it was because a socialist government blocked its location in the outer port of Ferrol. You have to remember. And why? Because then the Socialist Government was supported by CiU. And what was that? A request from Enagas: not to develop the Galician regasifier. So what did the Galician Union do? Bet for an alternative location. So if the gas plant is in Mugardos, thank the Socialist Party. Look, I have the feeling that you didn't take your own amendment seriously because nothing spoke of her. Yes, I have to tell you and Mr Merlo that environmental sensitivity is not the heritage of any party, and we have that environmental sensitivity just like you, and that, therefore, trying to capitalize on it is a simple and tremendous argument. [[Applause]] Mr. Losada, about your amendment, we intend to facilitate processing and planning for this infrastructure. It's funny that the PSOE in his amendment already wants to raise public money for this big company. That's what you want. We are not going to share that proposal because for public investments the project has to be included in the planning of gas infrastructures of the Ministry. And, therefore, it's a pre-trial procedure that you propose. You say, you give him public money. No, no, that's not what we propose. The business friend is you, so it seems at this initiative you bring. We can incorporate points 4 and 5 of your initiative, because I understand that they refer to future actions and that, in any case, you do not question the safety and environmental assurance of the plant. Mr. Merlo, I have to tell you that, look, you talk about ears, you make things up. Look, the author of a recently published doctoral thesis, biologist Xela Cunha — who I suppose knows a lot more than you — concludes that Reganosa's activity does not harm the marine environment of the Ferrol River. That's what he says, a doctoral thesis. You come here and say, contaminating. [[Murmurs.]] Look, any company installed in the Ferrol River pollutes a lot more than Reganosa. It's the one that's less contaminated, it's the one that's less affected by the middle, I can assure you. Look, the plant now accumulates nine years in operation without any environmental impact or safety. You are alarmists, who play with fear of the people. Since their entry into operation, they have entered more than 300 ships without any kind of incidence and therefore you come here to alarm, which is what they always do. Look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u153	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u154	...on the judgements of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has not ordered the paralysing of the plant. That's not true, that's a lie. The Supreme Court ordered that the authorization be processed again by an urban defect which, at the time in question, has already been remedied previously by the Mugardos Council, by a government of the Nationalist Block Galego. So those deficiencies you see have already been healed. So it's not true that there are judgments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u156	...that they question this question. Madam Presas, we didn't expect anything else from the Galician Nationalist Block; we only expected your abstention. They're absent from all the important debates, because BNG isn't even waiting for you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u158	...and, therefore, we can tell you little more. About the Tides of Podemos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u159	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u160	...see, you guys took Mugardos there the other day to the bus in Hazte to protest against the gas plant. What I'm telling you is that they leave that out of Make you hear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u162	Mrs. Santos, I know you want to make yourself heard, argue with her spokesperson...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u163	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u164	...to Mr. Villares, who is no longer waiting for you either. But the thing about Making you hear is no longer the necklace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u166	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u167	Let's move on to the next initiative. There seems to be a lot of spokespersons in all groups, but you can only speak one at the time they've given. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in connection with the project of environmental dredging of the Burgo River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u168	No amendments were made to this initiative. To put the question, Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're going to talk about Burgo's creek, one more example of the continued aggression with our country, this one, Galicia. And yesterday there was another example of the same aggravating, the AP-9. The debate yesterday was disappointing: firstly, the clamp against the BNG; secondly, due to the doubt expressed by the People's Party that the transfer is possible — it was a doubt manifest — and thirdly, because we fear that it will be the demonstration of a pact between the state political forces so that the law will sleep in a box of two, three or four children, taking dust and forgetting. And this is where the president of the board, Mr. Fexóo, Feixóo...—if, really, I read well, I read Fexóo, because it is a graph that writes what he writes, but good...—Well, Mr. Feixóo-Fexóo, the President of the board, can prevent this from happening, because today we can also make reality of the dredged of the river. He can prevent this from happening with AP-9 and can prevent this from happening, which says that when the creation of the world, the gods laid their hands on this peninsula corner and thus the fish, the seafood, and the high and low laughs that surround this country. Much later the Phoenicians and other marine people saw in them the so-called Casitéride Islands, legendary summer land, metal that centered trade among the known peoples of the Nostrum Sea and with personality to pass on to history. I know the current reality is that, because of the urban disaster that we have and that we have been setting up over the last forty years, laughter is no longer what they were. They give neither food nor seafood nor fish in the quantities nor in the qualities of the eighties, nor work and life to as many people as they gave. And still beautiful, in its beauty there is a background of environmental exhaustion and sadness that robs them of the splendor of other times. This is not catastropheism, it's reality. And we were the causers and we have to be the repairers. Much has been done to remedy the uncontrolled and untreated spills both industrial and human, but it has been so many years of insensitivity that it is now what it is, a laugh with enormous potential, but wounded by death, and about 2,000 sailors and sailors of the eighties, only 200 at present. The productive capacity of the river is reduced to 19% due to accumulated sludge. There's more and less current and less water sheet, and the shellfish's brood is badly altered by their living conditions. For all this, by the wealth of its water and its bed, by the ability to generate wealth and jobs in people who traditionally exploited it, by landscape wealth and environmental environment, by the necessary normality, it touches the floor. And it's been decades since we've seen different groups claiming a complete performance that allows us to recover all the environmental, social and economic value of this stream. Fruit of this work and social and political pressure, last December 11, 2015 was submitted to the public exhibition the Dragado environmental project of the sediments of the Burgo River, prepared by the Ministry of the Environment. Several entities submitted allegations claiming that the dredging project was accompanied by a budget allocation, such as rigor, and a timetable of actions needed and sufficient for its execution. These entities, grouped into the Bureau of the Burgundy River, constituted by the Coruña Fishermen's Congress, the Platform for Defence of the Burgundy River, the University of Coruña and the Chamber Councils, Culleredo, The Coruña and Oleiros, make their claims: One. The paralysing of the shellfish during the execution of the dredging in the possibility that the dredging of the sludges will mobilize contaminants that can be dissolved in the waters of the surroundings close to decontamination works. This paralysing of maritime activity must necessarily be accompanied by compensation for economic losses, as it cannot be otherwise. Two. A monitoring plan that includes comprehensive, periodic and transparent control of the quality of water, the stagnation of mud confinement enclosures and the evolution of the flora and fauna populations settled in the river and its surroundings. These measures are necessary to monitor the management of Category 3A and Category 2 classified material with positive toxicity. This material will be confined to the two enabled enclosures: the north enclosure, in Oleiros, and the south enclosure, in Culleredo. Three. The constitution on the basis of the beginning of the dredging of a follow-up commission in which different administrations are represented, the Ministry of the Environment, Galician Union, coastal municipalities, the University of Coruña and the agents involved. Four. Finally, the regeneration of the Burgo River must be an integral project in which the dredging is only an important part, promoting an environmental conservation and regeneration plan to restore its environmental values and its productive potential. The regeneration of the river should include measures to protect the ecosystem during the dredging, and subsequently an environmental restoration which leads to the creation of an ecological corridor between the coronation of Cecebre and the sea and a plan of uses that governs the different uses of the dredging and enables sustainable use of it and the maintenance of the ecological, economic and social functions of space. Today, however, the dredging performances of the stream are still dead and, despite the promise that 2017 would be the year of the beginning of the dredging works, everything is dead, paralysed. The State has not responded to the allegations for months. The colophon of this intent is the state budgets, which only collect one million euros for 2017 in a project that surrounds 50 million euros in investment. Look, the Basque Country has just reached 30 million euros for the regeneration of the Upper Nervion River and 2 million euros for the re-regination of the Zumaia beach. And for us, for the Burgo's laugh, there's a millionth more. He always argued by the Administration that there was no budget for the dredging, because there was no project. There's a project now, but a million. I think it's necessary to refresh your memory. The public exhibition ends in February 2016. On July 21 this year, there had to be a response to the allegations and the project should be approved. You know anything about him? I think he went off the road. At the BNG we have a morbid curiosity: do you guys talk to the MPs at the Congress? Is Mariano Rajoy taking along with the Galician PP? And is Burgo's creek Galician or is it in another territory? Because if not, no one understands. There is a endless number of motions approved in the municipalities concerned, but in the surroundings, adopted by the PP as well. By the way, there are also two requests to the minister, Mrs. Tejerina, from the four mayors, platform and confrere, for a meeting to discuss the subject, one in August 2015 and one in November 2016. There is no reply to the two requests. Nobody here knows anything. The Central Government is missing, the Members of Galicia in Madrid are on their way. Will the project come on the high-speed train? It's for all of this and for some other reasons that's left in the bag so we bring this GNP unanimously to urge the central government to go along, to meet the promised and to do things right and in time. That's why it's about walking, do you think?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas Cruz. We now turn to the intervention of the parliamentary groups. The Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u171	Thank you, President. We are going to vote in favour of this non-law BNG proposal because anyone who goes to the Burgo River, without needing a more thorough analysis, realizes that urgent cleaning is necessary, that dredging — which is not the first time that comes to this House in commission and in full — is essential and that protection measures are also needed. And the palpable example is that in the 1980s this creek gave work to about 2,000 seafarers and today their productive capacity, according to them, does not reach 18%, and employs less than 100 people in extraction activities. Many of these people had to stop working because their incomes didn't even give them to pay for social security quotas, which is very common, besides, in the shellfish world, and dredging is essential because the mud drowns the shellfish and they're making the Berberet and plum disappear, and the eel has been extinct a long time ago. As it is good to always remember previous dates, in December 2013, i.e. more than four years ago, they came to Galicia and made a report for having come to Galicia at the beginning of that year, 2013, several MEPs; a report on the state of the Galician rivers, and one of them, one of them who had visited the month of January, was Burgo's laugh. They were impacted, like any one who went to Burgo's creek, even measured the depth of the mud right there, which was about two meters away. And one of the divers who was working on those measuring jobs almost got caught up in the mud when he went down the stairs of one of the docks. They had physical difficulties to get him out of the mud because he stayed there. Two years after that 2013, in December 2015, as was said, this project of environmental dredging of the sediments of the Burgo River was submitted to the public exhibition, which developed the Ministry of the Environment at its time, and several entities submitted allegations. They are grouped in the Bureau of the Burgo River, so that I have what is most important, which is budget allocation and a schedule of actions — 2015–. The process would have ended in July 2016 with the project already final, but the Ministry of the Environment, as the BNG spokesman has already said, has nothing, and obviously needs information from Galician waters and the General Sub-Direction of Wastes, and so we arrived almost in the middle of 2017. As long as the remaining environmental impact processes are not published, the environmental impact statement cannot be defined, nor can the performances be set, nor can the competition be issued for the execution of the works; therefore, we will already put ourselves in at least one more year. And the curious thing is that the People's Party, who said that the responsible for the lack of dredging of the Burgo River was -- like not? -- what serves us for a rocket and a careless, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, before reaching power, said in the Coruña that as soon as he began to rule, in the next two years, he would be made the dredging of the river. Well, we're in 2017 and we're still waiting. The fact is that the Government that presided over José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero did not cease to ask the Government of the Union — who was governed by the PP at the time he made the petitions — the treatment of the muds, and the municipalities did their work, the Government of Zapatero did his work but both here and the Government in Madrid because they did not do their work. Popular outrage is growing so much that on the 14th of this month there is a demonstration called by the Bureau of the Burgo River precisely to demand budgeting in the State budgets, because, as it was said, there is the usual one — you are very traditional, defending traditions, in this case too — a million traditional euros for the dredging, in addition to compromising seven million to 2020, when what is needed is more or less a total act, about 47 million euros. When we discussed the budgets for 2017 in this House, this parliamentary group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, presented an amendment precisely with a specific share of EUR 2 million to re-ignite the river. The Popular Parliamentary Group voted against, the Environment Adviser and now pre-empted to the Mayor of the Crown also voted against, and in these days the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Congress has again tabled an amendment to the general budgets, also asking for two million euros for dredging. There is a need for measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u172	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u173	... yes, I will finish, President—to clean up the river, to guarantee the quality of the waters of the Burgo River and to start the work already on sanitation and regeneration, and it would be very good for the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress of Deputies — which we do not know if it is or if it is expected — to vote in favour because for the precadidate, the Environment Adviser, it would be good news, but above all it would be good news for the Burgo River, for the neighbouring municipalities, because waiting until 2020 with an budget of 7 million euros is more than disastrous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u174	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mr Merlo Lorenzo has the floor on the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u175	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to sum up the situation in which Burgo's laugh is currently present, the three words would be "skinned." It's a coat of hair from both the Galician Union and the Central Government, which allow the laugh as a socio-economic engine in the area to die slowly. That artisanal fishing has no interest at all, at least, in the People's Party has become very clear over the past few years. You understand better with the great multinational aquaculture, which aims to privatize our rivers, bringing ruin to thousands of seafaring people, fishermen who work every day on our backs in order to bring their families forward. One example is the 6 million euros that have recently been used to boost fuels and cosmetics through aquaculture and which is a statement of intent. In the 1970s, Burgo was the main economic engine in the area, generating around 2,000 direct jobs, and it was a prosperous, future stream. Do you know how many people work today? Only 150. Unfortunately, this situation continues and will gradually continue to decline until there is a time when there is no work for the whole primary extractive sector. As has been well said here, the main problem of the current creek is the abandonment by the different administrations with regard to the cleaning of the vegetables stored in it, which became a layer of mud several meters thick. Therefore, the dredging of the river becomes indispensable; it is an prevailing necessity. The mud has invaded in recent years important shellfish areas, since, for example, in the plan of exploitation carried out in the 1970s, the allowable extension to be found to reach 700,000 square metres, yet at present things are quite different, there are only six productive seamen banks, which account for 259,000 square metres. I mean, in the last decades in the Burgo creek, 63% of the extractive area has been lost. In addition, the remaining areas also have serious problems with the accumulation of waste because the mud prevents the mariner from breathing or feeding sufficiently. Representatives of the area's seafood sector say that daily catches only allow insurance to be paid and that this poses very serious danger to jobs in such an important sector for the Greek economy. The muds have been deposited since the beginning of the 20th century, and over these years nothing has been invested in the cleaning of the stream. They were all empty promises and good intentions that never came to execution. Official reports say river recovery is estimated at an estimated cost of EUR 46 million. It's estimated that after that cleaning, the impact on employment could generate about 400 direct and immediate jobs. This data does not seem to interest the PP because in its recent general state budgets one million euros is allocated to the dredging of the Burgo River. You want to tell me you're only going to spend a million euros on dredging and cleaning the Burgo River when it's estimated at 46 million euros? Did you know that the shellfishers and fishermen in the Burgo River consider this little less than an insult? This attitude, although they don't like listening to it very much, shows that you, gentlemen of the People's Party, are opportunists. And I'll explain why. The Burgo River Sanitation Project was published in BOE on December 11, 2015, just nine days before the general election. I promised the promise and then it won't be fulfilled. This is a clear example of electoralist measure in itself, but a measure that plays with the bread of 150 families living on the sea. You should think about it, too. Let me tell you something: in politics it's not worth everything. On the other hand, it must also be noted that during the future dredged of the river it will be necessary to paralyze the extraction of the marshes of the area; therefore, the Union should compensate the marishers for the economic losses while the sanitation works last. This disillusionment situation on the part of public administrations has been mobilising the sector for years. These people, who just want their demands to be heard and who start at once the integral sanitation of their laugh in order to live worthy of their work, don't have to be disowned for much longer. On the part of our parliamentary group, I want to say that we are going to support this initiative and that we hope that the People's Party will join it as well. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u176	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u177	Opportunist, Mr. Merlo, really? Are you telling us that we are opportunists and that in politics everything is not worth everything, Mr. Merlo? You're saying, representative of your organization, that in politics it's not all right? I don't know... very bold, I have the feeling. Look, you could have talked here about the spills of the Zapateira integral sanitation plan, you could come here talking about the spills that still exist in the creeks, which are responsible for the municipalities, but you've preferred to read what they did to you from there, something Mr. Sánchez denied, perhaps because he has a little more dignity and he didn't want to do the ridiculous thing. Mr Rivas, I anticipate our group's support for the initiative on the regeneration of the Burgo River. We demand that the process be accelerated so that the works begin and these works are done, in addition, respecting the actions envisaged in the initiative. We agree, Mr Rivas, with the importance of carrying out the regeneration of the Burgo River, the same way that we agreed earlier on the need to do as before, the same way that we also agreed on the need to make an investor effort on sanitation infrastructures and also the need to make optimal maintenance of existing infrastructures to improve their functioning in eliminating river spills. In all that we agree with you. As we know, and as you well point out at your initiative, the work to achieve the integral sanitation of the Burgo River must be together: that all administrations are involved in the improvement of our laugh and that each administration exercises its responsibility. The responsibility of the Council of Galicia and, of course, also responsibility of the Central Government, of course, yes, and also of the Town Councils. In this responsibility of the Autonomic Administration, as I said, it is necessary to point out in this case that prior to this project of dredging from the Galician Union, an ambitious sanitation plan was carried out with a strong investment of more than a hundred million euros, which makes the actions carried out responsible for improving the state of the river and allowing us to have a laugh today fulfilling the parameters. In addition, and within the local sanitation plan of the Burgo River, a comprehensive study was made of the situation of the different elements of the sanitation system around the river. The plan proposed a series of actions, including those committed by the Galician Union to resolve critical points in the areas of Santa Cristina and O Templo, which are already in progress. The plan proposals include not only works of improvement or new execution of sanitation facilities, but also the proper management by the competent municipalities of both the sewer network and the transport and purification elements, as well as the gradual adoption of sustainable urban drainage techniques. Management which, in addition, does not involve large investments, but achieves significant improvements in the operation of networks and the elimination of spills to the stream. Thanks to the implementation of the plan, local authorities responsible for this maintenance have everything they need to carry out. The work to achieve the integral sanitation of the Burgo River must be together, and all administrations must be involved in the improvement of our river. Thanks to the continuous work of monitoring and control of the Union, we have knowledge of the points of direct contaminant spills to the river, which are the title of the different municipalities. It is therefore important that the councils carry out the necessary actions to amend these direct spills as quickly as possible. Town Councils have an obligation that there will not be dumping, that there will not be salted water filtration on the network. They have to manage their faecal and plireal waters well and approve their discharge orders. In relation, ladies and gentlemen, to the responsibility of the Central Government and to the environmental dredging of the sediments of the Burgo River — this is pending the issue of environmental impact declaration — there was a stage in the submission of allegations. Allegations have been made and the Ministry is now studying them. Many of the allegations that have been made are collected on this initiative and, of course, the resolution of the environmental impact statement will collect all those that are incorporated into the final project, which will be made public and will be communicated to stakeholders before their invitation to tender. Within the project a thorough environmental monitoring program has been designed that seeks to ensure that the work done as a result of this work ensures the effective protection of the ecosystem. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we will support your initiative, as the cleansing of the Burgo River is a priority for this government. The Galician Union has been working for years with effort to achieve effective and efficient water management to ensure this sanitation. This administration has invested more than a hundred million euros in important sanitation works, maintaining permanent contact with the municipalities, the Ministry of the Environment and the mariners who develop their work in this area. That same effort that the Galician Union has made is what we are also asking the central government, with the dredging project, and the municipalities, with the maintenance and improvement of networks and control of spills, and with urban sanitation systems. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u178	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u179	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Trenor and other groups, only the rockets are missing, eating the pulp, the corn mill and the glass of wine, which was as always signed the transaction agreements on the fairs. And God, I am not trying to hurt this Parliament. We only have to wait for this agreement not to remain in wet paper, to wait for this agreement to have enough weight to weigh — and allow me to redundancy — in Madrid and where necessary, and to force its compliance. It is true that it is a responsibility to keep the laughter in good condition in the future. After cleaning and dredging, it corresponds to each of the institutions involved, but each stick holds its sail. I could say another saying a little bit more... but I'm not saying it out of shame. Thank you, PP gentlemen, Mr. En Marea, Mr. PSOE, for this agreement. And nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. We've run out of debates on non-law proposals, we start with the votes. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u181	Close the doors, please. We begin by voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Council before the Ministry of Development to reduce the rates in AP-9 and to avoid the cumulative annual rise of taxes by 1% for 20 years from 2018 onwards. Amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block or to the Parliamentary Group of En Marea have not been accepted. [[Mr. Bará Torres asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr Bará, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u182	And you can explain how the dots are distributed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u183	There are two points: the first and the second.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u184	Thank you. Perfect, I haven't read it. Let us vote on point 1 of this proposal. We vote. Vote of point 1 of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union before the Ministry of Development to reduce the rates in AP-9 and to avoid the cumulative annual rise of tolls of 1% for 20 years from 2018. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1 of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u185	Let us now vote on the second point of this motion. We vote. Vote of point 2 of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union before the Ministry of Development to reduce the rates in AP-9 and to avoid the cumulative annual rise of tolls of 1% for 20 years from 2018. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 39; abstentions, 18. The result of the vote is negative. Point 2 of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u186	We now vote on the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms Noela Blanco Rodríguez and Mr Julio Torrado Quintela. The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made to the central government in relation to single-parent and single-marental families with two dependent children under the age of 18 or older with some type of disability equal to or greater than 65%. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u187	We are voting on the proposal of the En Marea Parliamentary Group on the creation by the Government of the Advisory Board of the Book, as provided for in the Law of the Book and the reading of Galicia. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the creation by the Government of the Italian Book Advisory Council, provided for in the Law of the Book and the reading of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u188	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr José González Vázquez. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José González Vázquez and eleven other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Farming in connection with the charging for tax purposes of subsidies received by the incorporation of young farmers into rural economic activities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u189	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiation by the Galician Council of the necessary procedures for the declaration of the Galician Rupester Art as the ‘patrimony of humanity’. I was pending a transaction and I don't see the author of the proposal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The doors are closed, and when the doors are closed no one can enter. That's Parliament's rule. [[Laughter]] Let someone, please, bring in the transaction, some member of the group who is within the Chamber to bring in the transaction. Yes, read the transaction, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u190	We reached a transaction with the Block at point 1, we accepted point 2 and we modified point 3 of the Socialist Party, and we would stay: "1. Inventing, cataloging in the DOG the pieces of rock art existing in Galicia, involving organised civil society. 2. Develop and implement a plan for conservation, protection and value-added with sufficient budget allocation. 3. Start the proceedings to achieve the declaration of Welsh rock art as ‘patrimony of humanity’ within a maximum of three months. Within a year of the start of the proceedings, the Galician Board shall submit to Parliament a report on the work done and the future action plan in the event that the application file for that declaration has not been completed."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u191	Thank you. We therefore vote for this transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the initiation by the Galician Board of Procedures necessary for the declaration of the Welsh Rupester Art as ‘the heritage of humanity’. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u192	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the cuts in the State Budget Bill by 2017. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament in relation to the cuts presented by the State Budget Bill for 2017 in relation to investments in Galicia, as well as in social matters. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u193	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and six other Members. I don't know if a transaction was pending. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u194	In the debate we offer to incorporate points 4 and 5 of the amendment of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u195	Thank you. Do you accept? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not possible, so we vote on the proposal as it is. The non-law proposal is voted as drafted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and six other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the impetus of the use of liquefied natural gas in maritime transport. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 12; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u196	Finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in connection with the draft environmental dredging of the Burgo River. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in connection with the project of environmental dredging of the Burgo River. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u197	They've finished voting, open the doors, please. We are discussing agenda item 6 on interpelerations. We begin with the request of the En Marea Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Vázquez Verao. Da Paula Vázquez Verao's interview with G.P. of In Marea, on the assessment of the Government of Greece in relation to data on child poverty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u198	You have the floor, therefore, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u199	Thank you, President. There's May 17, and it's coming up then a quote like, "I'm Balbino. A village boy. Like anyone says, no one. And besides, poor." Today the Balbino de Neira Vilas unfortunately, by setting an example, for it could be a girl of urban surroundings surely, who lives in a home beaten for years of unemployment, whose house cannot be kept at an adequate temperature in winter and in which one cannot cope with unforeseen expenses, as can be as fundamental issues as an odontological intervention, for example; or in which many days at the base of food has to consist of cheap macaroons, mold bread or tomato cans. It could even be the 9-year-old girl who told Save the Children that "a poor child is the one who can't dream." And we framed this interpellation in the context that we have already expressed in En Marea successively since the beginning of the legislation, that despite the growth in the GDP of the Spanish State and Galicia — which has been growing since 2014 we could place the change in the economic cycle in 2013, because despite this the rates of poverty and social exclusion have increased since 2011 in all ages. And speaking of child poverty, if we take the latest report from the European Network against Poverty, these people point out that child poverty is the one that gets the most up. It is clear, therefore, that economic recovery remains at the mercy of a large part of the population. One in five people in Greece is at risk of poverty. And not often will it be less dramatic, less or more dramatic, but it is important to see this reality here in this Parliament. It's also important to see that people who live in homes with severe material shortages in our country have also risen to about 6%, and that childhood is also a more vulnerable group in this regard. Well, we could cite numerous studies confirming the consolidation in our country of an unequal society; studies that do not do in Marea, which do not make radical entities, because they are studies that even ratify them by the European Commission itself. Each time we have a greater difference between the high-income population and the low-income population, and with broad layers of population at risk of poverty and exclusion, highlighting — as we have already said and how it is the subject of this interpellation — child poverty. It is a phenomenon that it is true that it is not exclusive in our country, but that it is common to the whole Spanish State, which has the highest rates of the European Union, only exceeded by Romania and Greece, reaching 36.3% in 2012 with a 9-point increase since the beginning of the crisis. Therefore, we can affirm without any doubt that youth and children are the most vulnerable groups to the risk of crisis and social exclusion. This situation is not new, and it is not new because it has been alerted since the beginning of the crisis by different organisations, such as the EU itself, which through the European Commission in recent reports refers to this situation. However, different governments from different autonomous communities did in principle deny this situation. In 2014, President Núñez Feijóo and Community President Ignacio González agreed. They agreed in the denial, in the denial which was expressed not only to these social entities but to the opposition of this very Parliament, which repeatedly brought the data to it. Finally, they rectified — as I have already explained and I will analyze — some of the lines that have moved forward. But this denial is a little significant from where the shots are going in Europe, not just in our country. He said that the situation is not new, that it has worsened after the global economic crisis and the Eurozone crisis, that it has given him a final setback to the consolidation of inequality, because what these reports also reveal is that in Europe, but especially in the Spanish state, even in times of economic growth high rates of poverty. But what made this last crisis, and especially the policies applied to theoretically combat it, was to consolidate this inequality. The OXFAM organization points out that economic recovery, as we have already seen, is not preventing inequality from growing. In Galicia, in addition, this is quantified so that 20% of the richest population manages a budget 4.45 times the poorest 20%. Social polarization is being consolidated, and this is reflected in an increasingly polarized labour market, and this has implications for political structures as well. We make this reference because it seems that we are talking recently about a recovery of the old political partisan dynamics in the state, even in Europe. That's not true, the crisis of classical forms of political mobilization and participation has not ended; it has not ended because the conditions that made it emerge have not ended. He told them that the European Commission itself recognises — and thus transfers it to the Economic and Social Council — that the cumulative effects of rising unemployment, social exclusion and inequality are seen as a stumbling block for the generation of a sustained growth path in time to successfully overcome the most recent economic and financial crisis. They're pointing at the institutional bodies themselves that it's very difficult to recover the economy. As Mr Feijóo said — and his chest ends this morning — of the relative poverty figures, supposedly better than the rest of the state: the crisis has passed. The crisis has not happened to a large majority of the population and — as various organisms recognize — it will be very difficult to recover a growth that results in the benefit of most of the population. We no longer mention various studies that continue to abound in this Greek social reality, which we have already moved here; a reality that basically has to do with the precariousness of employment. In fact, in children’s poverty — secondly, it acknowledged the Board’s own report in 2014 — employment is the main factor leading to the increase in the risk rates of poverty and social exclusion among children. This causes those who suffer especially poverty to be single-parent families, so we have always talked about that increase in the worst conditions that women have in the labour market. That sank during the crisis, and as single-parent families — as we said yesterday — are 80% homes supported by women, this directly affected the risk of exclusion from the child population. We repeat the data again: more than 50% of single-parent families are poor. Also — it is true — increases vulnerability among families with dependent minors, numerous families and families with lower families whose parents are from outside the Community. So the picture is tremendous at the social level, economic recovery does not translate into most of the population, and the main victims of this situation are women and children. And I also wanted to make a reference to a collective, which is that of adolescence, that if we analyze and degrade the data, it's really the worst thing that's going on and in which vulnerability increases the most. And this too -- and then we'll analyze it -- is derived from the fact that the palliative policies that have been put in place by international organizations that have been alerting for more years about this situation if policies directed to children have been launched, the earlier childhood, but a part of the child is excluded, or the transition from youth, which is the one with a higher risk of vulnerability. Anyway, child poverty -- as we said yesterday -- has a lot of plans. And falling into poverty — these people who are at risk of poverty — means putting a person at risk for life. Because the higher the level of social exclusion, the greater the risk of continuing this intergenerational transmission of poverty in that vicious circle of poverty. These consequences that occur between 0 and 5 years often we're not even able to turn, because we're talking about many more possibilities for health disorders. In fact, a Delancey study — I believe that last year, or this same year, determined inequality as the main cause of population health loss, and urged WHO to put this factor as one of the main factors. The consequences are also evident in the formative level; it is much more difficult to access the same starting conditions as the rest of the children in a context of a family with difficulty. In addition, when spending on education increased during the crisis by 32% because investments in children at the state level have been reduced — as the European Commission itself acknowledges. So, we're talking about a situation in which, if we didn't put a remedy on it, Europe -- speaking of Europe as a whole — would commit a serious injustice with all its children's population towards their future, but also towards their present. Because we often talk about children and children in terms of what our future is, and we forget that they are subject to law and that as such they have the right even to participate in the design of policies that affect them. There is the question of adolescence, which being a very vulnerable group has only translation into public policies. And then we asked him about the assessment of the Government of Greece on the data of child poverty, the recent reports that the European Network against Poverty indicated that about 100,000 children in our country would be at risk of social exclusion. We ask you because we do not find excessive public statements by the Government of Greece as a whole regarding these latest data and the recent survey on the living conditions of families. And we asked him why we believe that this denial that occurred at the beginning, when the organizations warned about this data, because we believe it is not to be received that Mr Feijóo said there were no children at risk of malnutrition in our country, when then a study of the Union itself — because reality is stubborn — acknowledged that 18,000 homes with children were suffering from severe material shortages in Galicia. In this study — it does not give me time to degrade it, but I invite everyone to study it, which has to do with it through a different document, which I think is the Greek Strategy for Children and Adolescents, because the study itself is not on the website — determined that during the crisis it has increased child poverty, that the risk of child poverty is higher in urban areas, but above all the question of employment. Employment and housing in rent are two factors that excessively increase the risk of falling into poverty between childhood and adolescence. I repeat: this forgotten vulnerable group, that vulnerable group we ask you about. Besides asking about the rating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u200	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u201	...we asked you—if—for alternatives, what alternatives? What assessment does the Government have of this increase in the risk of poverty, this intolerable increase in the risk of poverty in children in Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u202	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. The Social Policy Adviser has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. The fight against situations of child poverty is a cross-cutting and absolutely priority element for the Galician Union and we understand that for the whole of the Greeks. The Greek Government grants it a special incidence — as it could not be otherwise — precisely by valuing that these cases of vulnerability tend to something that from the point of view of inequality seems to us to be an essential element, which is the chronicling of poverty. The fact that because of being in a bad time, in a familiar environment or in an adverse social environment, these cases are repeated over time condemns our future, which is the younger people, to remain in that situation. That is why it needs to be addressed from different areas: from the family, of course, from the educational field, from the social and economic fields. In the inquiry we are dealing with, we quote several data from the report of the Poverty Reduction Network (EAPN), an entity with which this advisor is precisely working, not only in the diagnosis but in the solutions to avoid precisely situations of poverty, especially severe poverty, and also in the second subparagraph to avoid its chronification. You're talking about your AROPE rate intervention. We know an advance from that rate that marks people at risk of poverty in Galicia. That rate in 2016 was 25.4, which indicates that there is a reduction in the AROPE rate right now in Galicia since the beginning of the year; in 2015 that rate was 25.7. And we just learned more recent data, which are those of the National Institute of Statistics, broken down by autonomous communities, which also indicate a reduction in the rate, specifically 19%; levels in many cases similar to those existing in 2008 and 2009. Of course, I always say that statistics are complicated, but statistics actually allow us to make two statements that I think are important. The first is that both the AROPE rate and the INE collection indicate that we are at an actual moment of economic recovery, but also a reduction in the percentage of people at risk of poverty, people in situations of social exclusion. That's the first comment I'd like to make. The second is that these indicators also clearly point out that Galicia is much better at indicators than the average of the whole state and, of course, much better than autonomous communities like Andalusia or Extreme, which have 35% or 30% rates. That, first of all, with respect to statistics. But secondly, when we're talking about people who are in a situation of vulnerability, what we have to say is that, although there's a reduction, the number, of course, seems very important to us to work very intensively on the Social Policy Council, the Government's set of administrations, and the set of social entities that exist in Galicia; and that in addition to that social commitment, in fact, must always be supported by an economic commitment, by a budgetary commitment. And, as you know, precisely the budget sections that have increased most in the Social Policy Council are those that have to do with social inclusion, which in 2015 increased from EUR 85 million to EUR 106 million in 2017, or the approaches to family and children — another second area of action of their interpellation — which increased from EUR 86 million to EUR 123 million. So you know perfectly well what the general budget increase of the Galician Union is in the last two years, and you'll see that this percentage is multiplying with a lot of that budget increase, precisely to prove that it's not only a question of social sensitivity but we're also talking about a necessary economic priority to be taken into public accounts. That is the diagnosis; the solution, of course, of the joint work of the administrations — of course, of the Council of Galicia, who has the utmost competence in the matter, but also of the councils and the deputies — as well as of the social entities. That's why I told you that we subscribed to the Social Agenda last year with the EAPN and that we are in the process of its development, with very important measures — because you also asked me what measures are on the table—such as income support measures, the measures that have to do with the Proinfancia programme — that we have signed with the six mayors and the mayor of the seven major cities of Galicia, which are developing right now, the measures that have to do with the coverage of medicines that are not funded by the National Health System in competition with the councils of Galicia, and also those measures that have to do with the quality of life of the conditions of people. We have opened a new line of call for grants to the municipalities to carry out specialized technical interventions directed to families participating in social and labour inclusion processes with minors in their positions. Measures directed also to the severe deprivation of energy. With regard to this, to tell you that for what comes to be called "energy poverty" we also have the established indicators, which are pointing to better percentages than what we had — as could not be otherwise — in the response to the crisis. Direct help to families as well as children's birth aid, both in income and for people who don't rent. In Galicia, EUR 1,200 for the second child and EUR 2,400 for families with third or more children, the dependent child allowance, and the 100 per month during the first year of birth of a child or daughter for the acquisition of basic products and perennial needs. The expansion of the number of squares in children's schools, which also seems to us very important from the point of view of conciliation, but also from the point of view of education and therefore of promoting future opportunities irrespective of the level of family income, including the exemption of many of these families from paying absolutely nothing for taking their children or taking their children to a childhood school. The Promotion programme, which we have developed in another specific area, is that of the Gypsy people, which we are developing with the Gypsy Secretariat Foundation, promoting the best educational practices and combating school dropout. Socio-educational programs on the street, such as Escorto, which also develops with social entities the General Direction of Inclusion. These are some of the fundamental lines, coincidentally with the housing, which you have also referred to, and which, of course, is one of the measures we have taken in the Social Agenda, and for which we also hope for greater coordination, which is also very important in the area of social inclusion, to - I say - among all cases of need. I really have a point where I differ from your intervention. And the point where I differ is that a better economic situation leads us to a worse figure of social exclusion. It is true — and I have already expressed it in this Parliament on numerous occasions — that the crisis has caused an increase in inequality. But the outcome of the crisis is reducing the rates of poverty and social exclusion in Galicia. That's also a reality right now. What we have to do is put more measures on the table, such as those we are putting on right now, so that in addition to allowing us to have more people — as you are saying, the latest data from the INE we know — come out of the risk of exclusion, more people also come out of the inequality that is fundamentally caused by the crisis. The data, actually...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u205	...—end—employment data tells us something else very important: that the biggest job is true that there is a lower incidence of the risk of poverty and social exclusion as well. So on a path we could say of economic growth, but also of job growth, we're finding that we have many more homes at this time of people in which at least one of the people works. Because in centrality, in the peak of the crisis, it was a given...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u207	...extremely worrying that we're correcting right now. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u208	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u209	See if I can use only five minutes, because I had this call for the afternoon, for confusion. Yes, indeed, relative poverty rates are slightly lowered. But the material reality of Galician society is poorer, the threshold of poverty is reduced, so the levels of relative poverty are now being reduced. But the truth is, since 2009, when they got to the government, it's happened at a rate of 24.7 -- I'm using the data from the Welsh Network against poverty -- to 27.9 today; and the truth is that it increases in the youngest population segments and in the child population, which is dramatic; and the truth is that in Galicia there is a variable, which is that it has many older people who have less risk of poverty, despite having the lowest pensions in the state. And the risk of poverty, that risk of poverty among young people, is directly related to work insecurity. I was talking about the fact that the most job will be less poverty, but today there is no guarantee of leaving poverty; there is the phenomenon of work poverty that is alarming in our country. At the state level -- I don't have the data right now -- 17% of the working population is poor, but if we look at the working class, half of the working class can consider it precarious. In view of this picture, there are not only palliative policies, which is true what he said: action is needed in various plans. We will make a motion as a result of this call with proposals in these various plans, because it is true that poverty has a multiplicity of visions. But above all, we must act in its prevention. The policies against poverty in the Union fall within that European Strategy 2020. We have to look at the general context. On the one hand, the European Union is launching this European strategy in order to reduce the levels of risk of poverty, but it is the same European Union which obliges, especially the southern states, to cut down during these years of crisis in the social protection functions, in response to the rescue of the private bank, which has not been cut, which has caused this social exclusion of large population layers. So the Eurozone crisis gave them the final stockpiling of policies that had already come before, because we remember that we came from an unequal society with high levels of poverty. So we have to let the European Union — let me say, because we were on Europe's Day — commit the immorality of abandoning both childhood and childhood, as well as the other childhood of the refugees who are behind their backs, and that yesterday we pointed out that we want to welcome them, because yesterday itself, Europe Day, I remind them that they drowned 250 people in the Mediterranean. That is the reality of our European Union. Finally, that we will certainly not agree in the diagnosis, because we do not agree — and we have said so many times — but we can certainly agree on timely measures, which we do not disregard, because implementing measures against poverty directly affects the improvement of the situation of population layers. But we want to frame this in the general context, because without policies that are at the root of the question we will continue to have a polarized society. We have also seen that this has implications for political structures. They accuse us of being, like they said? They told Anton to be "equidistant" with Le Pen. No, we against fascism, neither diabolical — as it is said now — would have even fought Le Pen with the vote. Yes, but what you can't tell us is that we can't be alarmed either, because what we voted for in France deepens in these policies of social exclusion, which precisely make these supposed alternatives grow, which ultimately also benefit the financial powers. So Europe will breathe quietly. And those who breathe calm will be the great powers. Yeah, that's right, to coincide with specific issues, for example, Risga. I know we're quite load the opposition groups by asking you when you're going to publish the decree that regulates the Social Inclusion Act. But we've been doing this because it's been an imminent three years. And the case is that regulating the transition tranches to employment, increasing the content of Risga, making it a social income that allows for integration, this would directly affect child poverty, because the data in 2014 say that 42.7% of Risga's perceived families have some lower office. In fact, having a minor role in families is a factor in increasing vulnerability, increasing the risk of falling into poverty. We asked him about that specific question, to see if we could at least get something out of this interpellation. I am forwarding that in the motion it will be one of the issues we ask, and we will do so until that publication is made, and we believe that it should be in collaboration with all the entities that work in relation to poverty. We believe that these social transfers when they are applied properly are effective; they are not paid — I think it was Mrs. Paula Prado who spoke of "paguitas" on the radio — they are not paid, they are social transfers that are necessary. And if they don't want to have pay, then they apply policies that don't condemn exclusion to most of the population. And they don't speak disrespectfully about people who have to use social assistance because they don't have a job. Finally, we will find ourselves in specific matters. One more thing that comes forward is that we also believe that there must be the opinion and participation of children. Not only are they futures, they are subject to rights, and surely they were legislate, they would legislate better than us, because according to Educus, when young people were asked about the difficulties they had with food, because the majority response they would make from governments, if they had a chance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u210	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u211	...to rule, is that everyone has something to eat.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u212	Thank you. Close round, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said in my previous speech, the AROPE rate of people between the ages of 0 and 16 in our community is six points less than in the whole of Spain; it is that Galicia also shows more positive data than the set of Spain in its evolution. As I said earlier, we believe in social measures. We believe in social measures and we consider through two data that these social measures which the Government of Galicia has put in place with the creation of the Social Policy Council are having a positive effect on other actions that have to do with the fundamentally economic and job-generating field. And those effects are starting to happen. I repeat to you an indicator that seems very important to us, that was and we hope that it will be consolidated, of course, but we will see it in time, that is the indicator of the survey of living conditions of the National Institute of Statistics, which places our percentage, our rate at 19%, with a download, and also with three points less than the set of Spain. Another fact — because you talked about the risk in your intervention — that we also find very important is that of the progress we've managed in the Council, we're also seeing for the first time, just as this indicator of the INE for the first time presents a favorable indicator, that the applications for the Risk are also coming down slightly, but they're coming down after years of very significant increases. So I say that we believe perfectly in the social measures that we are implementing from the Government and that we also believe that, associated with economic recovery, these social measures will present good results in the future. I was talking about measures, I was talking about income support measures. For you know that income support measures in Galicia are shielded through Risga, EUR 58 million in credit this year. He knows it's a wide-ranging game, which increases every time it's necessary, precisely so that no person in that situation has to be confronted with budgetary constraints of the public administration. And so we're doing it, and so we're going to keep doing it every time it's necessary. We will also look forward, in part of the coordination of social policies, to the evolution of incomes announced by the municipalities, because it seems to us that this could be a very important complement. But, really, it's so insignificant to this moment that income support doesn't allow us to make a more coordinated policy in Galicia. What we want, of course, is that the more we can contribute all to those minimum incomes, the more repercussions it will have for the Greek society. As I was wondering again about the development of the decree, tell him we're working on it. He was also talking about a very important part of the development of the decree, which is the dialogue with the rest of the administrations and with the rest of the entities. We're ready to face it. And I reiterate the commitment in this Parliament that we can present this year. It is precisely because it introduces from the point of view of the Social Policy Council two very important steps which abound in the purpose of this same interpellation: that there is no chronification of the situation of need. They just deepen that there are people who are currently at risk and who can move from Risk to transition to employment, which I think is what we all want. As far as housing is concerned, I believe that the union of different administrations — like income — could do much more. The Galician board, through the Housing Council, has the social bond with 200 euros, and I expect the same co-responsibility from cities with another 200 euros. Thus, the difficulties that exist in many cases to access renters would be eliminated. You know there's a supplement to the Risk besides it's for rent, which would allow us a more generalised game. Or what it has to do with drugs, which also seems very important to us. We have designed an order and we also expect greater involvement from other administrations. And the same is true of the new energy regulation of the social bond that is being developed by the state and the Autonomous Community. Finally, we have a lot of measures on the table, a lot of them are on that agenda that we subscribe to and that we are developing, and the important thing is to be able, as we are doing from Galicia, to lead a lot of new measures from the field of economic recovery and also from the field of social recovery, because that is a positive challenge for the future of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u214	Thank you, Counselor. Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Government of Galicia to promote the use of the language of Galicia among young people
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u215	To formulate this question, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u216	Good day again to all and good day and welcome again, Counselor, to this House. Today we asked you about the announced Plan of Standardization of uses of the Greek language that the Government of Unity is preparing for youth; this was also said to coincide with the International Day of Initial Language. We asked him why the reality of our country shows that more and more youth is educated only in Spanish, studied only in Spanish, worked only in Spanish, lived only in Spanish, read only literature in Spanish and went to the cinema with the Gallo of the Seventh Art Festival — by the way — this week — and you can only see Spanish films. They take advantage of it today because it's the last day to get tickets at reduced prices, and tomorrow returns 21% of VAT and private prices. [[Applause]] "How is it that in 2017 we can't see a single film of double star in our language? How could it be that in 2017 it is forbidden for the student to receive mathematics, physics, chemistry and technology in Welsh? How can it be that in 2017 there is not a single self-school that teaches us the driving manual in English? How can there be university careers in Galicia in 2017 that do not reach 3% of education in their own language — and these are data from the USC Language Standardization Service? How could it be that in 2017 there's not even 0.1% of music in English on any of the radios that we've heard from new people?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh This is what the student of the ICSC Alfonso VII of Caldas de Reis asks in the manifesto elaborated with the branch of Correlingua 2017, who, as you know, walks through the towns and cities of our country. With facts like this, the data is not so surprising. Let's see: Three out of four people between the ages of 5 and 14 are castelamphalants, just like six out of the ages of 15 to 29. These are data from the IGE, data from the Survey on the use and knowledge of the Welsh published in 2013. Monolinguals in English in the cities are declared only 12% of the youth, or what is even: partial or total speakers in Spanish in the cities of Ferrol and Vigo exceed 80%; in the Coruña or Pontevedra more than 75%; and in the villages between 20,000 and 50,000 inhabitants, Vilagarcia de Arousa or Narón, for example, the process of linguistic replacement, i.e., the change of Greek to Spanish, has increased enormously, passing the percentage of castellan speakers between the youth of 44% and 55% in just 10 years, more than half in a decade. In your turn of intervention — and not that I am Nostradamus, is that we are going to get to know each other — you will come up here and repeat that idea, that mantra that we have the most prepared generation of history and with greater competences in both oral and written English. Neither — we believe — is how to call the rocketman if we are aware that the Greek has been taught in school for only thirty-four years. Before 1983 it was in fact not excluded, forbidden. Speak Spanish, don't be barbarian, remember? In spite of this, we record the lowest number of speakers in the historical series; 31% is the number of people who usually speak in English. Do you know how many were in the year 2003? 43%. We lost twelve points of speakers in ten years in the country as a whole, regardless of age. And it's not that people who spoke English die, that some have changed their language in recent years. And the most disturbing thing from our point of view: the children and adolescents in our country directly see Welsh as an alien language, which is attributed to a heavy burden of prejudice and stereotypes; some, by the way, who come from old age. I'm going to read to them something, which is what a 17-18-year-old girl thinks, a 2nd-year-old student of Vigo's bachelor school about her country's language: "When I think about Galician" -- it's Spanish monolingual -- "I associate it with older people more than teenagers, and when I hear it, it's usually very closed. Then, as it is something peculiar to a certain area and the Spanish is more for the cities." This evaluation is drawn from the Report on Language Practices and Attitudes of Galician youth conducted by the Council of Culture. And there is more: youth perceives the Greek language as old, little or no useful, rural, invalid to study the Urals or the Texo, and even as something taxed and alien, about which there are no obligations, because these are attributed exclusively to Spanish. Well, it's true that the legal framework that came out of the 1978 Spanish Constitution so imposes. You will remember better than I — solely and exclusively for a reason of age — than the duty to know the Greek language collected in article 1 of the Law on Linguistic Standardization was declared illegal by the Spanish Constitutional Court in 1986, because the Spanish State in that transition has reserved this fact for itself and its language. I mean, the people here can't speak or can't write in English, but we wouldn't know the language of Castile. That's the root problem and the reason why the language politics of the Union is legal. For example, a decree such as Decree 79/2010 is in the thick shielded by the Spanish Constitution, because that Constitution imposes Spanish as the only language in the State. And there is also the sentence which derogates, for example, the Ordinance on the Use of Greek in the Town Hall of Lugo, denounced by a group-friendly friend of the People's Party that I will not mention in this House and partly overthrown by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. Tombada appealing again to the sacred Constitution because — and I quote literally the sentence itself — "By silencing the reference to Spanish, they understand that this is not an official language." They won't find a single reverse sentence, because it's a lie what the president of the board said this morning. This isn't the same thing. With this legal framework that doesn't surprise us by the panorama. In view of the Greek socio-linguistic reality, and in particular of the situation in our language among young people — indeed, present and future in this country — we ask about the normalization plan that they are designing, because it is certainly something new, yes. And it's new because you've been ruling this country since 2009, and they haven't developed in eight years, not just one comprehensive public policy aimed at normalizing the uses of Greek. What if we could see was the institutional publicity of the board during these years with graffiti, remember? "Galician Stone Women," which would be good as wordplay in Spanish, but here in Galicia what there are foundations or bases. That marine product promotion campaign: "Go over the sea"; it was supposed to be a wave every time we caught the mussel, right? And the one who hurts the eye the most because you have to see it every day in the morning, which is this, "Read a hundred times a hundred. It would be absolutely unthinkable, absolutely unthinkable and unacceptable to find any harm not, a linguistic aggression of this magnitude in a campaign of the Spanish Ministry of Agriculture and that it was not withdrawn the next day. But in total, in English, what else will you give? I suppose you'd think of some privileged head in San Caetano. In these years you have maintained some other timely initiative addressed to the school community and an impulse program that Mr. Feijóo referred to in the morning of the Greek language in the business fabric, approved two years ago in this House, but not much of the actions planned for last year 2016 have been implemented, including, for example, the opening of a website to take the necessary resources for the Greek business tissue to be put in the language of your country. No tools, no spaces for use, no public impulse, we don't do anything. They did, however, in these eight years to desecrate the minority language by ensuring that they had tried to impose and withdraw with their discourse the society of this country, in particular the Spanish speaker, from feeling their own language. And the consequences are noticed, of course. Intergenerational transmission is located as one of the main causes of disqualification. Children's schools are territory like you directly. There is practically no single one in the seven cities that educates children in Greek; even families who choose to create their children with attachment to the Greek language see how they progressively replace themselves with Spanish when they enter the nursery. And then, of course: 45% of children whose initial language is Spanish, compared to 12% in which the initial language is Greek. Hence our interest in knowing what the plan will consist of. First of all, because of the uncertainty about who is working on it, in addition to the technical teams of the General Secretariat for Linguistic Policy. What steps will you take or what line of speech will you follow after telling the youth of our country for years to work in language defense and seek their presence in all spaces, starting with teaching, was it an imposition? Because, ladies and gentlemen, who broke the consensus, with that famous consensus, who divided society and used the language as an electoral weapon, it was you in 2009 behind that banner. Now to see how they amend the consequences of their politics and speech. We look forward to your answer, Counselor. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Answer, Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u218	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Rodil, I have my sincere doubts that such a defeatist speech, such a catastrophic one, that constant collection of negative messages about Greek does good to the Greek and contributes to the value of Greek. That is something that you as nationalist training are constantly repeating; it is certainly legitimate — I am obviously respectful — that you always pay attention to the language issue. But allow me to tell you, since the democratic legitimacy that gives us the support of the citizens of Greece, that they should stop the temptation to attribute themselves to the only merits in the defence of the Greek language. It gives the feeling that, on many occasions, these lines of work, these initiatives, the initiative that you have just proposed today, because little more happens than a ritual for nationalism, and that we see every year. I mean, the ritual you're proposing is usually, in the first or second week of May, in the week before the Galagas Letters, to launch a totally pessimistic, catastrophic message to the citizen... it's something they've been doing every year. This year it was an interpellation, last year we had another interpellation, the previous year it was a PNL, and so we could go on. It gives the feeling that what you're most interested in is to shake the flags and make a political cause of the Greek language in order to reaffirm your ideological positions — absolutely respectable — and to think about your claim at the May 17 demonstration. And obviously, respecting the ideological differences, which exist, and are good, I believe that we can all share — and I am sure that even in this we can agree with you — that the Greek language is of all people and that it is of all citizens, especially those who speak it in absolute freedom. The language, it's not the slightest doubt, it's a collective treasure, it's the greatest cultural treasure we have, and we have to build spaces of affection and utility spaces. And you, Mrs. Rodil, said that it wasn't worth Greek to fall in love. He said he shouldn't have fallen in love with Greek. I'll make you an invitation. Not to fall in love with you, Mrs. Rodil, but I'm going to invite you. [[Murmurs.]] This Saturday, they're going to deliver awards from a contest that's "Love Language." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I invite you to see how there are many young people doing a very good job to make messages in the language of dating, for many Thursdays, which is the Greek. That's why I invite you this Saturday to give these prizes and you can see how your vision is so catastrophic because it certainly doesn't correspond to reality. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, what we are working on and bet on is to achieve a consensus in citizenship — that is the most important point — and to seek meeting points and to sink into constructive reflections. We have to convince and push the use of Greek. And we shouldn't just focus on the negative, because his message was to highlight only those negative points that can have the use of a language, and I think that's not the way. We must have a certain historical perspective. If we look back three or four decades and we see the role that the Greek had, and we see the role that the Greek has today, there's really no color. Today the Greek is normalized in virtually all areas of the social life of this country, practically in all areas. [[Murmurs.]] Obviously, we have to keep working. And this government is the first to know those gaps that exist, and it's working for some way to reduce these deficiencies. There's a fact that you know, but what they don't give any importance, which is fundamental, and they're wrong in the diagnosis, absolutely: the Greek as a co-official language of the state is the language that has a higher level of competence and knowledge on the part of Thursdays. I don't think so, Your Honor, I don't think Latin, I think no German can speak Latin, a very small percentage. [[Interruptions.]] And all the Greeks know how to speak Greek, all the Greeks know how to speak Greek! And we talk about it in absolute freedom when we want to. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And look, what there is now is talkers, if you like, who use the two languages normally in different areas, with absolute normality. And we are the first ones who are aware that there is a sector of society where it is necessary to boost the use of Greek; we did it a few years ago with the socio-economic plan and we are doing it now with the plan to promote the use of Greek between youth. We set up a plan we're working on. But I'm going to tell you a question that I think is important: this plan is being done along with the Youth Directorate General, and we're working for potential, looking for affective spaces and looking for spaces of social and political consensus. Because data that we're also collecting tells us that youth doesn't perceive or wants there to be any language conflict, except at one end and save at another end. The vast majority of youth don't understand language conflicts. Young people don't understand that there are good boys or bad boys if they use one language or another. Why? Because any young Greek has full knowledge, it completely dominates both the oral level and the written level, the English language. And what we have to do is empower it to be used. And I'm really -- I'd say, Mrs. Rodil -- a little unfair or not reasonable about your criticisms that we've been talking about and we haven't done anything. I understand that you don't know him, but a plan doesn't take place in two days; you will understand that a certain quiet plan doesn't happen in two days. You've also been drawing for a long time, launching a practically apocalyptic message to society: the death of the Greek. And it's not true. The Greek language is very alive, because there are hundreds of thousands, of millions of Greeks who speak it, in absolute freedom. And that's something that you and no one can deny. Why? Because we use it, because we understand it's useful for personal relationships, family relationships. And we use the two languages more and more, and that's not bad. In any case, if we understand that it is necessary to act in those spaces where it is necessary to enhance the use of Greek. What spaces are moving on Thursdays? In social networks, for example, we have to work in that field; in sport, we have to work in that field. I mean, we have to work in those areas that favor the use of Greek, because knowledge is guaranteed by the education system. And that can't be denied, because denying it is absolutely a lack of reality and truth. As I said, we have the highest level of competence. I'm going to give the exact data: they understand their own language 98%, they know how to speak 97%, they know how to read 97.4%, they know how to write 83.3%. It is important to put data on the table. You said here that you are losing new speakers, because I'll tell you that the period in which most young speakers have lost was from 2003 to 2008, curiously a significant percentage of years governed by a political force that you but I know perfectly well. There were twelve down points in that period. That dynamic of fall has been completely reduced. You also say that the education system expels the spokespersons. I'm going to give you another data: in 2008 there were 23% of boys between 5 and 9 years old who knew how to speak little or nothing in English; in 2013 -- five years later -- when these kids are between 10 and 14 years old, they have a low percentage of 23% to 11%. That means that the education system is favoring it or favoring that those children, those boys who didn't speak anything or spoke little are gradually decreasing. So this catastrophic diagnosis, which is based on an individual and political perception, does not correspond much less to reality. In any case -- it's over -- catastrophist speeches go up, they go up because that catastrophic language that you use hurts you. We start from the absolute basis that Greek is useful to society, we must deepen in its use. Of course, Greek is not part of any political self-identification at any time. There are young people who can speak German and are certainly not from the BNG, and maybe even there are some young people who speak Spanish and who vote for you. [[Murmurs.]] Look where! With which there is no political self-identification between the use of a language and political formation. In any case — as I have already said — we are always working positively, from the conviction that what we must empower is the creation of affective spaces so that youth in absolute freedom and with full knowledge speak Greek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u219	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u220	I never thought I'd come to feel sorry for Mr. Fraga, never, and I think it must already be the second time. I believe that in the time that we have been in this House I have quoted the Fraga and the self-identification of Fraga, written in that book which I invite all the Members and Members to read it, and on two occasions. I see you disagree with the historical line of your party. So they'll say that's an oil raft! Well, I don't know, I don't know, I remember the readings of Mr. Fraga's work. [[Applause]] And I've also told him to agree with his appearance in Commission 4 on the basis of the budgets: I never thought in my life that someone would come behind him to do some good things for that gentleman. Let's go to parties: defeatist speech, alarmist speech, no, all... the opportunities that you have to throw frogs and snakes out of your mouth accusing us of alarmists. Well, the data I brought here, the analysis of the data I brought and exposed here were prepared by the staff board of the Galego Institute of Statistics. And we from here, from the BNG we want to show our firmest support for the staff board of the Galego Institute of Statistics, which, despite the blob in the world of Yupi and the pirolette of the People's Party too many times, because they do their work with absolute technical independence and put us on the table one reality that we might like most — I would really like it to be another — we may like less, but that's what there is, it's what there is! It is also true, and I have to say, that no longer surprises anyone — I believe — at this part of the bench because you come here with that aggressive speech that we are defeatists, alarmists, that we generate conflict, that we take advantage of the language, because Isaac Asimov said that "who is predictable is imperfect." Since you have no arguments, you have chosen directly to invent my intervention, to draw the conclusions that seemed more convenient to you to trust your speech, and you did not want or could not understand what I said, which is also an option. You're lying when you say directly that in recent times — I'm not going to equate your Government, I'm not going to do it, you've done it with the French dictatorship — but it's not true that more people today speak Greek than forty years ago. That's not true. And that's where we came up with even the Secretary General of Linguistic Policy and the Galician Nationalist Block. To a large extent, because we live in a process of huge demographic change, because a lot of people have been lost in those spaces that are historically Gallagic, such as the intermediate villages and, above all, the villages and the rural and mountain districts of our country. And in the face of this process of urbanization of the population itself progressively, too, one has been assimilated into a more castellanized culture in what has to do with language. So I ask you not to lie and not to miss the truth, at least here in this gallery. The truth is, if things are so good and who paints catastropheism and this reality almost that of running away from panic is BNG, I don't understand why you're making a Linguistic Standardization Plan for Uses Between Youth and, above all, why you went to a childhood school on the International Day of Initial Language to announce that you were doing it. If it was already done before, why wasn't it said in the past legislation? And if things aren't so bad between our country's children, why was it chosen that day? Perhaps because we knew perfectly well that the media is one of the issues that would refer precisely on the International Day of Initial Language was that every time a smaller percentage of children in our country has as their initial language their own. And it's not to be a catastropheist, it's to want to see reality and, above all, to act on it to change it. You were talking about the percentage loss of speakers corresponding to the years 2003 and 2008. And it's true, quite interesting measures have been applied, from our point of view, precisely to address that situation, as was the creation of a network of public schools dependent on the board of Galicia that taught children with attachment to the language of their country. It wasn't the BNG who walked out on the streets of Compostela on February 8, 2009, and Mr. Alfonso Rueda at that time with a band of fanatics like Galicia Bilinguale, who then motivated, by electoral promises at that time, the fateful decree of plurilingualism. [[Applause]] In the last paragraph — and already finished — you explain that you are born precisely with the intention of breaking with an alleged imposition of the Greek language. I really don't know if Castelao, if Rosalía, or if you're going down here, and if you're going to explain to me whether they're imposing the Greek language in this country. Actually, we ask you if you can, because those were the questions that were also put to you in the interpellation in writing, explain to us something else, not what we already knew, of the Plan of Standardization of the uses of the Greek language between youth. That's what the president said to us in the morning, see if they can innovate anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Close round, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u222	Well, Mrs. Rodil, look at you wrong at the BNG. How much you criticized BNG to Fraga! Now he realizes that with the passage of time he had a good policy. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sure within a few years, if the Block continues to exist, they'll also say, no, that Government of Beech was also good. [[Applause]] Because when you correct them, it's hard for them to do it. [[Murmurs.]] And within twenty years they will speak well of us, they will speak ill or well of this counselor or other advisers, even of President Feijóo, because I think it's a good line to follow, and I encourage her to do so. In any case, Mrs. Rodil, you're talking about the IGE. It's just that the data I exposed here are also from the IGE, eh!, all of them. Some members of his bench refused. The data we presented here are from the IGE, exactly the same as the data you are. And, man!, will you not compare me, beyond the individual use of each individual, that the situation of Greek as language, prestige, representativity hasn't changed in the last three or four decades? Don't tell me, because if you tell me that, I think it's excused that we keep talking. If you are able to assimilate and say that in the last three or four decades it has no greater social role in all areas: in education, in university, in the media, in culture, in everyone, in reality, if we speak so little we will hear, right? And then, look, I'm not who and I don't want to defend anyone, because I don't fully share your postulates either, or much less, but call an association or a collective that doesn't share with you "band of fanatics," I really wouldn't. Because others can say the same for you. [[Murmurs.]] And that's not good. Because between this extreme where there's what you say is a band of fanatics and extreme exhilaration where there's another band of fanatics, one saying one thing and another saying another, the immense society is in the middle, and we must aspire to represent that huge society. I think you should take that into account. [[Applause]] And I could give you some more drawn data from the IGE, so you question them and criticize them, but you ask us exactly how the plan is. And I'm going to tell you how the plan is, so you don't say nothing is being done, because actually in writing it's also what it tells us: Look, with regard to the approach, I've already said, there's a collaboration with the Youth Directorate General, obviously. It's an integral plan of different departments of the Autonomous Administration, but it's also a participatory plan, where we're going to have a process of participation mainly with the most comprehensive institutions in this country: the RAG, the Galician Culture Council and other organizations linked to youth, culture, volunteering, that is, with the associative tissue; there's going to be a participatory process. Scope. Let's say that the target audience — as we say in terms of planning — is the population, it's Thursday between 14 and 35 years old. The need. We understand that there is indeed need, that it is necessary to do so. We have already said it: it was the Government who launched the idea and the need to make this plan. Why? Because we have to generate positive attitudes towards the Greek language in these demographic areas, thinking mainly about the spaces in which they move: sport, social networks, affective — and I reiterate my invitation to this Saturday — and also in the field of neo-speaking people. Objective: involvement of different sectors of society: school, university, economic fabric, family, media. Obviously, strategy directed at new people and also directed at new speakers, which is to say that a percentage of population is very important to empower the Greek as well. Phases, which I think is what concerns you: phases. Look, a plan I've already told you in the previous intervention that is not done in two days, a serious plan. There are several phases which are as follows: first, a technical commission will be set up to support the development of the plan — this technical commission is drawing up an initial version of the plan, a background document to work on it; then, the approaches made by the entities involved in the process will be collected; then, there will be a participatory commission with the entities associated with youth, the approaches will be analysed and incorporated into the plan; then, there will be a consolidated version of the plan, the door will be opened to the participation of parliamentary groups, the plan will be validated, the final version will be drafted and the plan will be approved. And what I say — and already to finish, gentlemen — is that we would sincerely like them to be able to think that the Greek is not a symbol of the Block or a symbol of the nationalists, the Greek is absolutely of all the Greeks, who decide, that we decide to speak it in freedom, and always understanding that the Greek is a cultural richness and that it is of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u223	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u224	We're starting the session with point 8 of the agenda, you ask the Government. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the position of the German Government with regard to the current legal framework and the local financing system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u225	We begin with the question of Mr. Jose Luís Bará, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want. [[Pause.]] Give a voice to Mr Bará's chair. Isn't he? Now it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u226	Yes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President. Mr. Rueda, we want to ask you a few questions about the functioning of local authorities, about the model of clearly prejudicial financing for the Greek municipalities. It is known that BNG defends another system of self-financing and also for local authorities. A concert system that would allow for more than 3,500 million euros, i.e. more resources for the Union and for the municipalities, and therefore also better services. As long as we do not have that new, more beneficial system, it is urgent to change the current model of local funding, which, as everyone says, as far as Fegamp is concerned, is a discriminatory and unfair system. Therefore, Fegamp has made an agreement to request a change of this model. A model that crushes the population, favours the municipalities of more than 500,000 inhabitants and that makes Galicia, which has 6.25 % of the population of the communities of common regime, receives 5% of the funds and that Galicia has lost over ten years 1,400 million euros, less money than the Greek municipalities have received and therefore less funding possibilities. Galicia has a territorial, geographic and population reality different from the rest of the state. We have 30,340 population nuclei of 31,707 across the state. Therefore, extraordinary and different financing needs; only in the road network do we have 41,000 kilometres of municipal and provincial roads. So we defend the need for other criteria when distributing funds; in addition to the population, which take into account population nuclei or population aging. And besides numbers, we also have to talk about rules, because we think that we have to change the legal framework, which drowns, which grips the municipalities, and that has to do with the amendment of the 2010 Constitution, and also the Local Administration's Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of 2013. And we also need to clarify the competences by assuming the costs of those competences which are clearly self-sustaining. So, given all these arguments, we want to ask you a very specific question. These are: how does the Government of Greece value this prevailing local funding system, which is clearly discriminatory and unfair?, how does this legal framework that Fegamp is also asking it to change? And what will the Government do to change this system?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u227	Thank you, Mr Bará. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, because we agree, we also want to change the local funding system. And I also understand that the question you ask me refers — of course — to the system of distribution of state funds, at least in its large part. Then he also talked about autonomous resources regarding the redistribution of competences. By answering the first part, in the local funding system from a state point of view, we agree. This premium is much more than Galicia would like. We have a population problem, especially of large municipalities — understanding as large municipalities the municipalities of more than 500,000 inhabitants — despite the fact that it is true that six of the seven cities in Greece are in the first group. But it's true that in that drop of 500,000 people there are very high numbers, and we don't have any city -- and we don't have any visas, of course -- on that limit. So we want you to pay less attention to the population and that if you take more account of what we've been doing for a long time, actually claiming to Fegamp — but this Fegamp, the previous one, the previous one, the previous one, and sure one all — because we have more than a quarter of the population nucleus throughout the state and, however, the intensification of services that this means is not reflected in a share in the State's taxes. Therefore, we want it to change, that this is clear, the Council of Galicia has been asking for a long time ago. And recently -- and I'm going to read it to you, you know it already -- it's been approved here in Commission 3a, but it's just that there's been a lot of talk about this, and there's been a lot of unanimous agreements, fortunately, because I think this has little discussion. The last agreement was that "The Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Union to demand the Central Government" - and, of course, we did so immediately - "the inclusion of ageing and population dispersion within the criteria that determine the allocation of funds for the participation of the Greek councils in the state incomes, to end the serious gap between the incomes of the Greek municipalities with respect to the percentage of the population in the Spanish state." Exactly what you're asking about in the question is exactly what we've always been demanding, from the Fegamp, from the Government of Galicia — this and the previous — of the Council. And as long as it doesn't change, I suppose what's going to continue to claim Fegamp is what will continue to claim all the governments of the Galician Union, because we're very interested in everyone. It costs us much more to provide certain services here in Galicia for that fact, indeed, by the dispersion of the people — which is intrinsic to us and, therefore, that will not change. And instead, we don't go beyond that population barrier that makes income much more important as population strata rise. This is not the case in the Local Cooperation Fund — it is clear — but it is the case in the State's taxes. So we want to change it. Now you know that the outcome of the Conference of Presidents was created by this Committee of Experts to reform self-financing and, at the same time, an Expert Commission for Local Finance Reform. So let's hope they go in parallel and hope that in that second commission, where there are experts designated by the FEMP and the State, and there are no experts designated by the autonomous communities, although if we were asked, without any doubt, we would have appointed them because we have clearly identified the problem, and fortunately identified unanimously. Therefore, the Galician Union is waiting for those...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u229	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u230	...criteria change, because they're discriminatory — that's clear — about the current system, which takes population into account, and because it doesn't take into account that there are services that are much more expensive in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u232	...and therefore we need resources to lend them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u233	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u234	Well, actually, you say you agree with what BNG defends, that they've been defending that for a long time, but little chance they do. Little is the case because you've been ruling with an absolute majority in the state for many years, and they haven't done anything to change this model. So they don't really paint in Madrid about this or other things that we're talking about today about infrastructures or budgets. You also referred to a 3rd Commission agreement, but it is that in the previous legislation, in May 2015, an initiative of the BNG had already been adopted unanimously, which called for a new system of funding for the municipalities. It's been two years and they didn't get anything. Therefore, the balance of results is really poor. And you told me about the issue of numbers, but you didn't tell me about the question of rules. I also made an appeal, a question about the legislative changes that I also propose to Fegamp, because it conditions, drowns and grabs the possibility of making the municipalities another kind of policy. In particular, with regard to the Constitution and the Stability and Sustainability Act, the Fegamp has a clear position on these rules — well, the Constitution would not dare say so much, but rather with regard to the Stability Act — which was set out in writing with the following text: "Asking the State to change the legislation affecting administrations, eliminating rigid limits on public spending, indebtedness and recruitment of staff, allowing the municipalities to maintain a high level of public investment and social expenditure, and expanding the assumptions of application in the event of surplus." I would also like you to answer this question and make it easier to make decisions and to fix this situation than you have been doing over the years, or what you have been doing too — we have not come to the issue of the participation of incomes of the Autonomous Community and the Local Cooperation Fund — in the Commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u236	...Galega of Local Cooperation, who met last Thursday 13 April after seven years without meeting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u237	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u238	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u239	Thank you, Mr Bará. Close round, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, in fact, we've been asking for it for years and we're not doing what we'd like. But that's obvious, because then they would have changed the financing criteria; just like everything Galicia calls for in terms of self-financing, not everything will be collected. Listen: there are other autonomous nationalist communities here too — and I set the example of Catalonia — where they have municipalities of great population and they're not interested in changing this. Therefore, Galicia is asking clearly. And by the way, you're also talking about what's been being asked from the FEMP, and we agree, because the situation has changed for five years. There were municipalities in budgetary situations and in very complicated economic situations, very delicate; that was changing and now the municipalities are in another situation. And, therefore, that claim that is being made to open the bill, so to speak, and that the remnants can be devoted to things that are not allowed until now, we agree. But that's the FEMP's request right now. I would like the FEMP to have also asked for the general criteria for the distribution of State taxes to be changed. You're asking for only the first part, you'd have to ask for both. Why aren't you asking for both? Because indeed, the first one is clear to all the municipalities that benefit them; those who have remaining, therefore, are in their legitimate right, and I agree, and the Council of Galicia agrees that there must be a change of criteria already. But the second part, which is to change the criteria for the distribution of State taxes, is not being asked by the FEMP today. So I think I should have asked for it, too. So what it shows is that, in fact, there is a part of the municipalities that don't want these criteria to be changed that dominate the population above all. So you'll have to try to agree, and you'll agree that it's not that simple. They're asking from Fegamp, they have the support of the Galician Union. In fact, Fegamp has made a report of around 100 measures to achieve it, not only with its relations with the Galician Union — and these are complaints — but also with the State, and also with changing criteria that the councils now have with regard to their own use of public resources. These 100 measures have just been introduced, and the Galicia Local Cooperation Commission has just been held. Look, that's all we're gonna start talking about right now. But to remember the state, I think it has, firstly, the inescapable need for the general budgets of the state to be approved, at least because it is amended so that the municipalities can spend the remainder. If budgets are not approved, it is difficult to allow municipalities to invest their remaining ones. And I insist: we agree that it doesn't make sense that today municipalities that have good economic aid continue to be unable to invest their remains. But it would also be a good occasion — and I take this opportunity to say it here, and I suppose that Fegamp will have insisted on the FEMMP, but the FEMMP is not making that claim right now — so that we can start talking — I hope that this committee of local funding reform experts will also begin to do so — to change the criteria for the allocation of State taxes. So Galicia can really start receiving the resources it needs to provide the services here, without any doubt, are more expensive than in municipalities with more population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u241	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Mr Gonzalo Trenor López and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the action to be taken for the launch of the Rio Observatory announced by the Environment and Planning Council of the Territory
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u242	Question by Mr Gonzalo Trenor of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u243	Good afternoon, Counselor. From the People's Party, we believe that one of Galicia's great wealth is our rivers and also our rivers. Of course, a consideration that has its coherence in the successive government budgets of which you have been part. Governments that have made the greatest environmental investment in the history of our autonomy in sanitation, purification and water supply. Since 2009 more than 1,100 million euros in investments, more than 350 sanitation actions in one hundred and sixty municipalities, most of these efforts aimed at clearing our rivers. In particular, 600 million have been allocated since 2009 to improve the state of the rivers. And thanks to these investments, there was an improvement in the water in good state, a substantial improvement. Others, much less, would be already idle or full of themselves, but we don't, we aim to achieve 100 percent of our water in good state. And so in the last elections, in which the People's Party has re-valided the confidence of Galician society, in our electoral program we include important proposals for further progress on this objective. Among them, one of the commitments acquired by the Galician People's Party in its electoral programme was a Rios Observatory, an observatory with the role of reviewing the policies of action carried out by the different administrations in relation to the rivers, assessing from its environmental and ecosystem aspects to the social value measures of these natural spaces. I pledge that you also had your reflection in the debate of investment and commitment that you kept when you announced last February that one of the strategic lines for this legislation would be the value of the Greek rivers. In this course of action, the Rio Observatory will be launched, conceived as an advisory body dedicated to its advisorship through the General Directorate of Natural Heritage. For all this, counselor, our group would like to ask: What steps are you taking to set up the Rio Observatory?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u244	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u245	Thank you very much, President. Well, as you said, getting Galician waters to be of increasing quality and having more intense control parameters is one of the main goals we've set for the coming years. That is the first goal we have set ourselves, that in 2020 we have achieved the comprehensive sanitation of our rivers. And also the second goal is, in this legislation, to focus on boosting and valuing our rivers. Galicia has exactly 497 rivers, called as such, which have an extension of 32,000 kilometers; something that undoubtedly turns them into one of the most significant elements of our landscape. This without neglecting the vital importance of river ecosystems in the conservation of our biodiversity and the relevance of rivers in the socio-economic development of the populations of its environment. That's why we are aware from the Government of Galicia that we are facing a resource that is essential and that we also need to preserve. For all this, and taking into account the social, cultural and economic roots of the rivers in Galicia, we must foster policies that continue to promote the sustainable integration of our society in these natural surroundings. In response to this challenge, since the Council, we have been working for the launch of this river observatory. We are faced with an initiative that is pioneering in our community, which has already been committed by the president in the investment debate, and whose objective is born precisely to value that source of natural wealth that is our rivers, that source of wealth that is the community "two thousand rivers", as Cunquer said, considering, therefore, that they well deserve a body dedicated exclusively to them. The basis on which this observatory will turn is the knowledge and experience gained in the last few years of the Greek Government that allows us a more global view of the situation of our rivers. We are aware of the importance of encouraging the participation of society in general in this task, and therefore, as I have already told you, we are finalizing the processing of a decree that will create and regulate the autonomous observatory of rivers, whose purpose is, first of all, to obtain periodic and detailed information about the state, to value them, of course, and also to highlight them as natural and economic-social heritage that are of our community. This observatory will advise on the environmental, economic-social and cultural state of the rivers in Galicia, and will also promote the preparation of reports and studies as well as the diagnosis and proposal of measures to help define autonomous policies around the rivers. Finally, this bet of the Greek Government will allow us to set a framework for the sustainable use and put in value of these natural spaces.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u246	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u247	Counsellor, as you well remembered, the importance of rivers in our land is indisputable: 497 rivers with an extension of 32,000 kilometers. You have also highlighted the importance of river ecosystems in the conservation of the diversity and relevance of rivers in the socio-economic development of the populations around you. This pioneering initiative emphasizes this source of natural wealth that is our rivers, a specific body that will have regular and detailed information about its state, to value them in all its fields, in the heritage, in the economic and social sectors. It will provide quality advice, facilitate reporting, studies and diagnostics for decision-making. And perhaps — which is more important — will enable us to set a framework for the sustainable and valuable use of these natural spaces. But for this to be optimal, and as you said, it is important to promote the participation of society in this task. So, Counsellor, can you tell us which bodies or sectors will participate or be part of this observatory? And can you also detail what the specific functions of it are going to be? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u248	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. The lady's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u249	I think it is obliged to address river management in a cross-sectional and multi-disciplinary way. The goal we set ourselves is to obtain regular and detailed information — as I said — about the state of the rivers. But also, at the same time, put them in value and promote them. And with this base comes this autonomous observatory, which will be a reality already, very soon, for in the coming days we will begin the processing of this draft decree. This pioneering body will be a permanent observatory and will count on a composition that will be multidisciplinary. In fact, there is a broad involvement of all sectors and agencies involved in the conservation and management of river ecosystems. Thus, the Government of Galicia will participate, through the Environmental, Economic and Industry, Culture, Social Policy, Rural Environment and also the Galician Tourism Agency, and will have representatives of the other competent conca organisms in Galicia, such as the Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, also the Douro Confederation and also the Cantabria, representatives of the municipalities through the Fegamp, representatives of the three Greek universities, ecological associations and the Galician Fisheries Federation. In this way, the observatory will promote collaboration and joint work among all the administrations involved in setting up value for the rivers of Greece. Besides, thanks to its functioning position, we will perform a comprehensive and comprehensive performance on our rivers, protecting their tails and also their species. Among other functions, what will enable this observatory is an advice on the economic, social and cultural state of the rivers of Greece; the preparation of reports and studies; the diagnosis and proposal of measures that help to define the various autonomous policies of placing in value of Galician river ecosystems; and it may also propose, with a broad social sense, improvements in the policies of action or its development. This work of all the agents involved will enable us to promote a new figure, which in our community today does not exist, which are the plans of directors of the Greek rivers. These documents will collect autonomous policies for the conservation, promotion and valorization of rivers, and will aim to spread their importance and those of their natural contours, as well as promote good practices in the interaction of society, citizenship, with them. For all this, the observatory will act as an interdisciplinary meeting forum between public bodies and civil society and knowledge. And it is rejected by the principle of institutional collaboration, which is the basis of all our actions. No doubt, this observatory, which will soon be a reality, will allow you to recognize how all the values that our rivers deserve. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u250	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the performances carried out by the Galician Union, including the financials, to convert the AP-9 entry/outway into the city of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u251	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, this question is addressed in that methodology of the People's Party to rule for all, a sort of political intelligence of dubious objective compliance. It has to do with AP-9, which, as you well know, was a flourishing business, first, for Sacyr and then for international funds. Well, actually it's until 2048, as you know, concession, enlargement to the limit. Twenty-five percent of Abanca, well, just announced it has 153 million euros of benefit in the first quarter. We're still surprised at the financial profitability capacity of Abanca's investments. It's been raising 2,400 million euros, and what's going to be going on in thirty-six years. It will receive 200 million euros public between the Union and the Ministry of Development. The rates of this highway have increased by 36% in the last decade, that is, four times more than the consumer price index. That's what's called "adjusting to expected expectations." The financial data, drawn in this case from the National Securities Market Commission — the fact is that one is learning little by little and now we have advanced from the INE tables to the National Securities Market Commission tables — : the income benefit rate is about 38%, almost nothing!; insist, income benefits. [[Applause]] At least it's the methodological approach I know, although there may also be another one. These are the interests of AP-9 and... yes, Counselor, don't put that face of strangeness, because exactly the net amount of business is €138.6 million; and the result of profit, after taxes, 45.054.671. By making a simple arithmetic division, I know 38%, more or less. Faced with this are the needs of the social and economic fabric of the city of Vigo. As you well know, in time, your departure to the north is limited, I insist, by your own difficulties orographical and also by two roads, one of state ownership, the national 552, and another autonomous, the PO-323, and the Sanjurjo Badía and Travesía de Vigo streets and the layout of the old railway line. That railway line is true that it is now available for public authorities to re-use it after the Socialist Party has modified the high-speed project and designed a tunnel entry of 8 kilometers from Rendondela to Vigo. What we're asking for is the transformation, precisely to decongest these two roads, those two roads, from the Bos Aires link to the end in the center of Vigo, and make a double and double exit and therefore make a stretch of urban tracing. This theme was advanced by the Government of Galicia at its moment, was requested by the municipal government of Vigo, and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u252	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u253	The question I'm sure Mrs. Counselor has read it. What is the situation of this project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u254	Thank you. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u255	Thank you, President. Mr. Losada, first of all, of course, I would like to thank you for putting this question to me at a plenary session in which, unanimously from all groups in the House, if you approved the bill to request the transfer of the title of AP-9, a matter that we have always defended from the Galician Council because we believe it is best for our community, a direct management to ensure greater efficiency in its functioning, to be more agile in the resolution of incidences, for a policy of taxes, of course, less serious. For us the ownership of AP-9 was an objective, it is an objective and it will be an objective. We do this in the right forums, strictly and seriously. And I also think we should not forget a matter that has no precedent, the bilateral commission with the Ministry of Development, whose first meeting we had last February. You comment on AP-9 the fees, the benefits... I wanted to comment, so that there is no doubt, the Official State Gazette of November 24, 2011, the Royal Decree, signed by José Blanco, Minister of Development, in his sixth clause: "It establishes an extraordinary increase of fares on trips with direct payment by users on the AP-9 motorway in all the 1% cumulative sections for twenty years. Royal Decree of 24 November 2011. Pepe Blanco." [[Applause]] And of course we don't like beaches, Mr. Losada, we don't like beaches: 200 kilometers of high-performance routes since 2009 without a full-time economic crisis. So, of course, we don't like peas and we don't bet on peas. In any case, and going to the question of the question you are asking, I think your question cannot be answered any more, because it was a matter addressed in the first bilateral AP-9 commission we had with the Ministry of Development, which was February 22nd, and it was the Junta who transferred to the Ministry of Development the importance of converting that truce between Buenos Aires Avenue and the Vigo Center, because it is good for Vigo, because it has important advantages. All moves will be allowed. Of course, it's a road that is currently designed for interurban traffic. We want it to be for urban traffic, local traffic. So it's very useful for Vigo to be an urban road, and that's why we support him and defend him. We would decongested traffic, as I say, as an alternative to saturated pathways such as Sanjurjo Badía and Viasía de Vigo. In any case, the next day of that bilateral commission, I will transfer it to the mayor of Vigo who had to send us a technical proposal, a technical proposal for which we continue to wait and hope to receive it at the Galician Council. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u256	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Losada's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u257	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, look, I can read the BOE perfectly, but this very morning you voted against precisely modifying that BOE of 2011, which we think needs to be modified. That is why we voted in favour. That is exactly why we voted in favour. [[Applause]] It's a small, insignificant detail. Counsellor, look, you're gonna forgive me, are there really 200 kilometers of highways built by the government? Hey, I'd appreciate it. Since 2011, have you started your projects? Or what did you receive, the finished work? Won't you refer to the highway to the Death Coast? Of course, of course! [[Strong murmurers.]] A little bit, finally...! We all know how to read the BOE, we all know how to read the calendars, those small details of no importance, Counselor. Look, I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u258	Quiet, quiet! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u259	I insist, I want to know what the 200 kilometers of high-capacity track that Mr. Feijóo's government has developed and built since its rule. It will be the next question I ask you at the next plenary session, Counsellor. Look, Mr. Feijóo did come to Vigo on an election campaign saying that he was actually in favor of releasing AP-9 from Teis to the center. It's in all journals since September 8, 2016. And look, Counselor, do you think a work that is of state competence for now...? It is true that now there is this control commission of the Galician Ministry of Development, which, well, without any doubt, will radically alter the development of the construction of infrastructures in Galicia. Just see the plot between Taboadela and Ourense from the high-speed train to see exactly what that control commission will modify. Do you think it's the Vigo Town Hall who has to do the technical project so that AP-9 has a double entry and a double exit? Hey, you can ask the Vigo Town Hall. I know that in the end it will be all to blame for Abel Caballero and Carmela Silva, as it is. But there's a little detail: that AP-9 is a very good business, and it's from Fomento, the competitions are from Fomento.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u260	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u261	You seem to be in control, but, listen, don't say this is delayed because the Town Hall...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u262	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u263	...don't do what you have to do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u265	It's nice to answer that question about the 200-kilometre serviced since 2009 by the Government of Feijóo, of course it's nice to answer you, because that's why 200-kilometre high-performance routes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u266	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u267	...in service in the midst of economic crisis and therefore confirm that, of course, we do not like the fees. In any case, what surprises me is to say that the Galician Union intends to make the PXOM of the Vigo Town Hall. I insist, and I remind you that this demand of the neighbours, which we make ourselves, to convert this third of the AP-9 between Buenos Aires Avenue and the center of Vigo has the backing of the Galician Union. And, of course, we are facing an action in which the main actors are the Vigo Town Hall, because it's in the territory, and the Ministry of Development, the holder of that deal through a concession. I think we all know that the administrations closest to the citizen are the councils, and the municipalities must know what their citizens want and therefore also know the traffic flows in their own territory. Therefore, he has all his logic, as an administration closest to the citizen, that is the Town Hall itself. This is what we considered in the first bilateral AP-9 commission. Both the Ministry of Development and the Galician Union consider the action to be advantageous, we lead this request from the Galician Union at this first meeting. And the first thing we have to do is agree on at that meeting: let the Vigo Council transfer a technical proposal to us. At that meeting, as I say, we agreed that the Vigo Council would send us a technical proposal, because the PXOM is being drafted. I hope I have a technical proposal. When a PXOM is being drafted, that's what to do. And I myself, the next day, will hand it over in writing to the Vigo Council, personally, who would send us this technical proposal to address it, to dialogue and collaborate, and to transfer us a technical proposal to make a city. The mayor of Vigo is right that he told the media that that same afternoon he would send me the technical proposal. The letter is not answered two and a half months later, the unsent technical proposal; therefore, it is not related to the question of funding, with 200 kilometres of high-performance routes, to hide that the Vigo Council did not forward the technical document. So, two and a half months after asking the Vigo Town Hall for a technical proposal, we didn't get it. So he doesn't do it, because only through the media does he say he would forward it that very afternoon, and we didn't get anything. We continue to look forward to this technical document to further progress in what we consider to be strategic. Of course we don't want to read them, we want proposals. We do not want hollow ads, of course we want made, we want technical documents and therefore do not mess with other things to hide that the Vigo Town Hall has not responded to my letter and has not sent any technical proposals so that we can continue this important and strategic action in Vigo. [[Murmurs.]] For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u268	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia in relation to the development of a specific support plan for the textile sector in the Council of Orders and its region
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u269	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor, and good afternoon to the guests today who accompany us here, essentially women who are in an ERE of the Group of God, of the municipality of Orders. In the investment debate of the X legislation, Mr President of the Galician Council announced that this would be the legislation of rural areas. The Socialists hoped that this announcement of a country commitment made by the President of the Union would be so fulfilled, but the reality is that the Government of the People's Party in Galicia cut services in rural areas, cut investments in rural areas, boost economic profitability against social profitability and don't understand that public services are to meet the needs of the population, not to earn money. [[Applause]] These measures lead to the abandonment of rural areas by reducing population and decreasing economic activity, mainly in the primary and industrial sectors. The Town Hall of Orders and its county has a population of some 40,000 people, living mainly in the livestock and textile sectors. The textile sector in this region counted in 2012 with 1,500 jobs that have been gradually lost: from 2008 to 2012, 332 jobs; in 2014, 50; in 2016, 120; and at this point 103 women are found in an ERE of the Group of God, with delays in paying their five-month payroll payrolls, women who accompany us here today, Counsellor. So, Counsellor, we are talking about 605 women's jobs lost directly in these years in Orders and their area, only in the textile sector — without quantifying the small workshops that had been crafted around larger companies. The textile sector is one of the sectors of the so-called feminized, because most of their templates, or of the models of auxiliary companies, is made up of women; women who started their work in conditions of highly accused work precariousness and wage. This situation has gradually improved, although they are still far from equal in other sectors. This job destruction was mainly due to competition for price, which made the workshops of this region replaced by relocation abroad, mainly in countries such as Morocco, Romania, India and China, but also by the absence of a Greek strategic plan that allowed their survival and that had acted with different measures. The Socialists have already stated on repeated occasions that the sector was suffering from the lack of support from the German Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u270	Thank you. Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u271	We're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u272	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u273	Good. So our question is, has the Government of Greece planned to develop a specific support plan for the textile sector in the Council of Orders and its region?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I thank you for starting your question precisely by referring to the wager that this government has for the countryside, because that's a reality. And the bet this government has on the countryside... [[Laughter]] The incontinence of laughter often stems from the ignorance of reality. In any case, I'd be delighted to continue moving, actually... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u276	Quiet, quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u277	...the wager this government has for the countryside. In fact, rural bet means setting population in rural areas, and rural bet means logically allowing and promoting economic development in rural areas. And the government is working in different areas of the rural sector. He's doing it in the dairy sector, pushing the transformation into milk. He's doing it in the forest industry with the creation of the Forest Industry Agency. And we're doing it, Your Honor, also boosting training and rural entrepreneurship. I remind you that this government has already announced a EUR 30 million plan to promote training and rural entrepreneurship. And that means logically betting on productive tissues that have a link to the territory. You actually tell me about the situation in Orders. And logically, the Government also transfers sensitivity to the workers affected. Logically, I also send you a greeting and thank you for being in this session. In fact, the situation of these workers concerns us, and they worry about us because, logically, indeed, we need to give them opportunities for solutions to the future. We're doing a strict follow-up and we're actually valuing how to defend the working rights that the Group of God has. We've even set up a meeting tomorrow with the mayor and the workers of this company, precisely to identify further possibilities for future development. And logically, this is not the first meeting. We have already had other meetings, both with Igape and with the General Secretariat of Employment itself, to — I insist — not only guarantee workers' rights but also to seek ways of working together to strengthen the industrial sector, the productive sector, in Orders and its region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u278	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u279	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Counselor, laughter is inevitable in his words compared to the reality that we are living in rural Greek. [[Applause]] In any case, these women are here today and I am glad that the fact that they are here today serves to make you feel with the mayor of Orders to solve this problem. I'm very glad; at least it served. [[Applause]] But they're here because their situation is complicated, it's conflictive, they're women, they're daughters, they're mothers, and they need their work, a decent job to have a decent life, the same as we all want, the Greeks and the Greeks. So that's why you're here. But — I insist — if this is good for you to feel and bet on this strategic plan, welcome, you've gone!, I'll be the first to applaud you. Anyway, we've always told them, the socialists, that they had to put forward a number of initiatives for a long time, because this is a problem we've seen. It's a problem that you have to support the Italian textiles, you have to include it in the Galaga Industrial Competitiveness Agenda, and support the projects for the dynamization and renewal of the workshops and develop, once and for all, a sector support strategy that brings together various workshops to ensure their endogenous development. The Socialists will always agree fully with the impulse from Galician Union to the most technologically active companies in Galicia, those of the highest stakes for R & D+i, but we strongly defend that we have to bet at the same time by the most traditional companies in Greece, by those located in the countryside, so that employment is maintained, the fundamental problem that we have at this time most of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Mr. Counsellor's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u281	Thank you very much. I think you didn't understand me well what I told you in the first answer, because we've already met on several occasions with God-mades and God-made workers, and we've met on several occasions with the mayor himself, both through the Igape and through the General Secretariat of Employment. And you should also know that, if you talk about Orders, you could talk about Viriato and how this government also tried to help the Viriato at its time, not only from a financial point of view — that we actually try to transfer aid to Viriato so that it could guarantee employment at its time — and also logically, just as we are doing today with God's Conventions, we meet permanently with the workers not only so that they can guarantee their rights but, precisely, to identify possible solutions for the future. You talk to me, and I'm very sorry, from ignorance. Because, of course, you tell me about financial support. And you should know that this government is supporting industry through the Galicia 1000 programme, and that we are supporting the financial needs of 3,000 small and medium-sized enterprises. You talk to me about marketing aid and I can tell you that, indeed, we are also helping companies so they can increase their exports in the textile sector as well. And you're telling me about improving production processes, and you should know that there's an industry 4.0 competitiveness agenda and an industry 4.0 expertise strategy agenda to improve industry competitiveness. And you buy me Galicia with low cost on textiles. Yes, Your Honor, here we do not agree, Galicia won't compete with the low cost on textiles, it won't. We're going to compete for Industry 4.0, we're going to compete for the modernization of our industrial fabric, and we're going to compete precisely so our country won't have to compete with low cost anymore. And in that context we continue to support the textile, the Italian textile. We've already supported over 550 projects. We are supporting 40 innovation projects, we are supporting internationalisation, we are also supporting the financing of the textile sector. Finally, Your Honor, we are supporting rural areas, we are supporting the textile sector, we are supporting the workers, who are indeed experiencing a difficult situation. And in that context, we're going to secure your work rights, we're going to try to improve your employability, and we're going, of course, to look for any alternative that might strengthen your industrial fabric in Orders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u282	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the authorization of the sale of hydroelectric power stations of the river Xallas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u283	Whenever you want, you can ask the question now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u284	Counselor, good afternoon. I remind you that more than six months have passed since several filtrations to the press last October reported business contacts looking for the sale of the Xallas River power stations. On 23 November, at the first plenary session of this Parliamentary group asked you about this matter. And we'd like it to be clear today and that it was the last time we had to bring this question to this House. Let's remember. Without going to Ferroatlántica's permanent non-compliance history in our country, which accounts for the necessary mistrust that must be faced by this company, and without going back in time to the papers of Bárcenas or Granados or even to the connections of Mr. Villar Mir with franchise, or with fruguism, thinking only of what happened in recent months, Counsellor, we see two things: on the one hand we see the unity of the workers and workers, the mayors and of a whole territory against the segregation of the centers of their production; on the other hand, we see public confirmations of the company's intention to sell, communications to the stock market, we also see the well-known "Operation Lezo", a new bowl of corruption that has obvious connections with Galicia that cannot be hidden, as the fact that they make the brother-in-law of Villar Mir of OHL but not of Ferroatlántica. In short, as I say, many movements that have been happening in recent months, in recent weeks, and that reveal how they play with our country again as currency of exchange for various interests. And, honestly, don't you think that, all this time, all these news has happened, it's time that since Galician Union they have abandoned their calculated ambiguity? It's pretty simple. You now have a responsibility, you have to choose between putting yourself on one side or another: or paying the favors that you have to pay to Mr. Villar Mir — allowing speculation with a public good — or standing aside from the local workers and workers. It's time they stop being an ambiguous and silent government, because their silence makes us complicit. For all these months that was his attitude: passivity and silence. And in the meantime, I also ask him: don't you think that, six months later, it's time for him to hang out his phone again and meet again with Ferroatlantic workers and workers to give them a little quiet, if that's what they can expect from this government? That's why this parliamentary group asks you to answer if you're going to allow the Greek Government to authorize the sale of the Xallas River hydroelectric power stations, yes or no? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u285	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Presas, indeed, you have been in opposition for more than half a year, not just the Galego Nationalist Block, bringing the same question to this House on a systematic basis. I'm starting to wonder if there's any kind of hidden interest in this strategy. Surely you can answer that question. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, what's a certainty, it's a certainty, is that the company didn't make any kind of application at the Administration. That's for sure. And surely this political opportunism to which the Galician Nationalist Block is being subscribed is trying to respond to a strategy — I insist — hidden by the BNG. In any case, what if you can find the BNG, what if you know the workers, you know it perfectly, is that this government at no time was ambiguous, this government at all times spoke clear and always moved the same position from the first moment, the same. We haven't changed a single millimeter, both defending the maintenance of industrial activity and jobs and, above all, reflecting the concession itself, which is to safeguard public interest. So, unless you tell me otherwise, I believe that the position of the Government is nothing different than what has been approved — not only unanimously — in this House. Therefore, this government — I insist — was neither ambiguous nor kept at any time in silence. If we don't agree, Your Honor, it's the way to act. And we clearly transferred that we would respect the laws. That's what we're going to do. Surely what is being moved in your proposals is an interest that the laws are not respected. But this government won't speculate, as the Galician Nationalist Block does, and we won't do any kind of value trial. What we're going to do, logically, is keep the same position. There is no request at this time, which you refer to. If that happens, you'll logically have to solve that file. I understand that you will propose, if the time comes, that you must comply with the law. I'd be surprised if I didn't. In any case — I insist — this government has always acted consistently, consistently and always transparently, both with the workers and with the local mayors themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u287	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u288	Look, Mr. Conde, the interest of the Galego Nationalist Block is clear and evident. And if it's not clear to you, I insist and we insist on this parliamentary group every time you need it, because you still don't speak clearly. Of course, the interest in funding our election campaigns will be for their own sake, not for our own. [[Applause]] So the obvious interest we have is that you meet the workers and the workers again first. You know perfectly well, surely better than me, that you have requests on your table, just as you have requests from the mayors of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. I say that, understanding your busy schedule, since November 2016 there have been public events known and notorious enough to make it a place again in your schedule; or, if not, we commit these humble five minutes of the Nationalist Block Galicia to dedicate them. Secondly, can you say to us that, as you don't have conversations with the workers and the workers of Ferroatlantics, the German Government doesn't have them with the companies associated with Villar Mir? Because I have doubts. And finally, the interest we have is that this government does not sell our country and its natural resources in exchange for an industrial self-denominated plan which is basically a dismantling plan, because it has associated the segregation of those power stations. And, of course, we ask ourselves whether or not they think they're allowed to. And, of course, I don't want to finish my speech without telling him not to be a passive government and not to be a silent government comes by meeting with workers and workers and assuming that more than 75% of the Greek representation is against that segregation and that therefore they deserve to be heard and deserve a message of tranquillity from this government. The excuse is that there is no formal role presented, given the company's own public statements and the scandals these weeks, of course it does not stand. You can hold on to her...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u289	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u290	...but, of course, from this parliamentary group we will continue to insist that they be clarified.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u291	Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Presas, I regret that you come here permanently with prejudices trying to prejudge the position this government has to have on a hypothetical request by a company. I also regret that you understand that this government is not having a fluid and permanent dialogue with the workers and mayors, because, in fact, it has produced and so will occur at the moment when there is logically some kind of change about the current situation, which has not occurred. You come here and you've been here for six months -- I insist -- surely with a hidden strategy, with a hidden roadmap by the BNG. But reality, as much as you want to change it and you want to change it with your words, it's the same. I move to the BNG and move, above all, to the workers and mayors that this government will act with total force at all times, as it has done so far and will do so in the future, with something very simple that you know it's hard to assume. But we're gonna keep the law, we're gonna keep it. Surely you want us not to do it, but no, we're going to do it and we're going to act with responsibility. And in that context, we're also going to ensure that industrial activity is maintained, we're going to logically safeguard the public interest in the provision of these hydraulic installations and, therefore, we're not responding to the obsession BNG has with corruption. What if we moved them is that you'd probably have to explain where those hidden interests are. In any case, Your Honor, the Union will continue to act, as it has done since the beginning. We're going to comply with the law, we're going to safeguard public interest, and we're going to remain logically committed to industrial activity and employment. The workers know it directly, the mayors of the county know it. And, of course, this government will continue to act, Your Honor, with total firmness, with total transparency and complete dialogue. And what we're going to do, logically, is keep the mayors and the workers' representatives informed at all times, because that's our commitment to the workers, to the county and to Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u293	Thank you, Counselor. Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and da Luca Chao Pérez, from G.P. of En Marea, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia regarding the realization before 2018 of a balance sheet of the evolution of the Strategic Plan of the City of Culture of Galicia 2012-2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u294	Mrs Chao's question from the Marea Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u295	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. What we need to hear in this House, obsession with corruption! My mother! Today we've been talking about corruption here too, another guy, the result of an ex-president's dream, a few dream that, as the rule in the People's Party, becomes nightmares for most, doomed to pay the consequences of the decisions of a few. In this case, condemned to pay a disproportionate and meaningless project that accumulated numerous irregularities in its contracts, denounced not by En Marea but by the Board of Auditors itself, and which assumed an over 200% cost, with which, curiously — such curiosity always passed on to the friends of the People's Party — companies of their friends and family were enriched. It's a project that involves an enormous slate every year for the entire Greek cultural sector, that white elephant of the Greek culture that, rather than being Fraga's mausoleum, has just been mausoleum of the entire Galician culture, because that's where their resources are buried; the highest example of the neoliberal cultural policy that successive conservative governments have carried out throughout the country in an attempt to create ever more spectacular cultural containers without making the slightest reflection about the usefulness or relevance of it. Today the president of this House was recommending that we read more to Carlos Casares. And I'm going to let them make the same recommendation: read it more and listen carefully. Because Carlos Casares was one of those who thought that all these great buildings were useless, because culture is not measured in square meters or in glaring, because these kinds of projects are against their own culture. We can't agree anymore, because what happens to all these spectacular projects is that we have to pay them. And, of course, you don't pay them, you pay them citizenship. And what happens is that there are resources present and future to our cultural system. The concern and interest of this government for the culture of Greece is evidenced when we look at some budgets that devote most of its resources to the cultural hub of the Gaiás complex, that bottomless well that consumes 1 out of every 3 euros that this Government devotes to promoting cultural activities. Programme 432B, of which more than 4 million euros are intended for maintenance, luminaires, cleaning and safety. Concepts that cost us all the citizenship of Galicia EUR 10,988.3 per day, which translates into 458 euros per hour. If this isn't a figure to cry, I don't know what it will be. Does it make sense that 4 million euros are destined for the maintenance of a single building where, above, most of the days there is no cultural activity? Does it make sense to spend 11,000 euros a day on the maintenance of an building, while the whole cultural system demands attention from a government that has turned its back on it? For Marea it doesn't have it, a matter of priorities, and a question of model; for the People's Party we know it: that of airports without planes, cultural containers without culture and opaque foundations with which to cover the actual accounts of an organism so as not to reveal the shame of the expense they make in this building.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. I kind of understood it, but if you'd like to ask the question. I got it, eh! In the question I understand, but of course, you know the mechanics, I think you know the mechanics. It's three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u297	Well, like you have other data, we ask, do you plan to make an assessment of the evolution of the City of Culture Strategic Plan by 2018, the year in which it ends, or will we continue to accumulate plan after plan to continue doing closed-eye policies?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u298	That's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u299	Mr. President, please. This honourable Member is speaking all the time when I have the speaking time, I would be grateful if you would call him in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u300	Quiet. I'm looking for you, but this is... You're right what you're... quiet, please. Quiet, quiet! You're right, and I know what's bothering you; I've been there too; I know what bothers you when someone's asking a question. But it's for this side and this side. That's what I want to do, and don't start yourself, don't start with that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm trying to do it, I'm trying to do it, and I know what's bothering you. [[Protests.]] Mr. Counsellor's answer. Please whenever you like. Don't start, don't start. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, that's it! Counselor, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u301	Okay. Good afternoon. First of all, I welcome En Marea to the culture of evaluation. You're saying if you approve a plan, so we welcome you, and I hope it's not a spring flower, because in other matters you don't defend for nothing the culture of evaluation. I think it's good if you make a plan that goes through, and when you finish that plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u302	That also bothers, bothers everything, bothers everyone. That's why you're asking for it. Go ahead, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u303	When making a plan, the normal thing is that when it's finished or you're about to finish it if you realize it. Obviously, Mrs. Chao, don't have the slightest doubt that you'll realize when we're near the end; but obviously, when we're talking about the year 2018. And to say that the City of Culture for you has an absolutely defeatist, catastrophic vision, little less than to say that the City of Culture ends with the sector. Well, I'll welcome you too, and even you'll take pictures there. Well, it's not bad. There's very little in Marea, or we can, I don't know who, he took pictures to promote the City of Culture, among other things that interested in that case his political group, which, too, welcome. Pesquisition and condemnation, Mrs. Chao. There is one thing called the democratic will of citizens, and the democratic will of citizens was not to support a government and support the actions of that government elections after elections in Galicia, because it has always won them the People's Party [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u304	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u305	And then, also, Mrs. Chao, you will know that the time when the Galician Union dedicated more resources, multiplying by four today's, was in the years of the glorious Bipartite. Of course, you're telling me that if you consume resources, you'll also know that there's not only culture, there's culture and entrepreneurship. For example, part of the expenses you charge you are charged are related expenses, for example, to the computer management of the Galician Union complex, an important amount. Because you think the City of Culture Foundation is only cultural development, but there are more aspects linked to this foundation, which are, by the way, marked in the Strategic Plan. With what I would do, after doing this reflection, is to value what is being done and what was proposed in that strategic plan, which was a very intelligent measure. Keep in mind that it was done in 2012, a year of a profound economic crisis, a year in which a roadmap was made that is being fulfilled: it was affixed by a city of culture open to society and open to culture, and it's being achieved, and it's just going around. If you, and I don't say it personally, had opened your mind when you looked at the City of Culture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u306	Thank you, Counselor, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u307	...would realize that the City of Culture is increasingly promoting and valuing everything that has to do with the country's cultural activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u308	Thank you, Counselor, your time is up. Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u309	Here we always have a flood of overwhelming imagination. Now it turns out that the People's Party has won the elections because Galician citizenship wanted the City of Culture, of course, and so each year they receive nothing more and nothing less than 400,000 visitors; this great work for the future of Galicia receives 400,000 visitors, but 11,000 euros a day. Of course it was priority number one of the Greeks and the Greeks. I don't know why they don't make a referendum and ask it, because I'm sure they would say yes, that the great success of the People's Party Government was the City of Culture, I have no doubt! [[Applause]] Counselor, if you'll excuse me, don't welcome us to the evaluation, give us the data, which is what we ask you to do. And you're welcome to the evaluation during, which turns out to be one of the most important types of evaluation in the evaluation of public policies, and it turns out that I know something about this, because that's what I was dedicated to before, so welcome you. Policies are evaluated as they are implemented, not only when they're finished, so we asked this question. If you have data, bring them in, don't try to turn your attention away, because it's the only thing you've done, what you've got used to, throwing balloons out and forgetting your responsibilities as a government member that you have to come to this House and give explanations. You don't have them, perfect, you don't have them, but if you don't take advantage of your second shift and give the data you want to ignore now. And I'm sorry, too, that we don't want to talk about the Bipartite, but I was the vice president of that government? Did I form part of that government in Marea? No, right? What we're talking about is your government, you're ruling two laws, I'm saying some responsibility will have. If we had to ask the Socialist Party or the BNG, we would ask them, but it's about you, so please be serious and answer what you're asked. Bring the data, tell us if we consider it appropriate to bury the resources of Galician culture in Gaiás. And more importantly, explain to us that the cultural model justifies what you just did here, say — no noise at all — that the money that is drawn from Galician culture is spent on antiquity and spent on paying the board's Intranet and spending on entrepreneurship actions. You said it, saying it was us who confused the data. If the money you're going to town is going to pay Intranet, tell us, please, how much. It will be an interesting information not only for citizenship, but for all the workers in Galician culture.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u310	Thank you, Mrs Chao, thank you very much. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u311	Mrs. Chao, you want accurate data, I can give you some precise data, if you want, without any problems. You'll know that there's constant communication to the citizenship of the activities being done there. Today, for example, there has been a huge event of vocational training in the City of Culture, which you think is useless. But I'm going to tell you, look, there's 200 entrepreneurs working right now, moving projects forward, launching new initiatives. You should know there's a business nursery specializing in cultural companies. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] At the center of entrepreneurship, cultural projects are being promoted at a very high level. There are around 200 cultural activities every year, very varied: theatre, music... lots of them. There are more than 300 events, some of their own production and others of external production, associations, collectives, etc. In number of visits we are about 2 million since your inauguration, and you think we're talking about 5 years, 5 very complex years from the point of view of cultural consumption, cultural promotion, cultural action, because they were very difficult years, and yet we're talking about over 2 million visitors. Maybe it doesn't seem like much to you, I hope they're more, but we're talking about that economic amount. We're talking about projects that are in portfolios and are going to give enormous dynamism to this project. For example, motorway connection with AP-9, this will dynamize — no doubt — at the cultural level, because it will bring citizens closer to it; just as we are working on favoring pedestrian accessibility; or how we are working on generating a nice space around it for the citizenship of Compostela or anywhere in Santiago that wants to get to know its spaces. And that's going day by day and improving, because we can make a quantitative balance and put data on the table, which is there, and good, considering the period we're talking about. Now, the most important thing is the qualitative part. If you go there — part of the promotion with your means of transport — you can constantly see that there is cultural activity; you can see, constantly, that there are many groups that are developing cultural activities there; that there is every time there is greater social involvement and that there is a better response to citizenship; and that is something you can deny it or not, you can have a previous vision, let's say a precise perception by a sort of veil that makes it impossible for you to see the part in which we also have a little veil, but it is impossible for you to see, absolutely, the reality, because, in the end, what is true is that there is concentrated a very important part of our culture: the library of Galicia, the archive of Galicia, all that has to do with the development of new contents, everything that has to do with cultural enterprise. There's a lot of activities, and they're increasingly making the City of Culture an ally and a reference in Galicia's cultural world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u312	Thank you, Counselor, thank you very much. Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, by G. P. de En Marea, about the mechanisms that will enable the Galician Union to avoid the limited situation in which the Galego Centre of Contemporary Art is found, the Galego Coreographic Center, the Galego Center of Art of Image or the Galego Dramatic Center, as a result of the cuts carried out in its financing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u313	You have the word to Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u314	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Román, I'm tempted to keep talking about the City of Culture, but I can't. No, it's really amazing. Well, to start with the biggest enemy of stability is corruption, we all know that, right? And to continue, to say that the Galician Agency of Cultural Industries—and don't tell me or we're defeatists, or you, please, triumphalist, or praise the Bipartite again, that we already have our ears covered with so much listen—... I'm sure it's good to tell them, but it's still a little more concrete. I'll go find him. We were actually talking yesterday about Galagas Day being a day of celebration and it's a day of demand. By party, because the sector of sectors, which is culture, the workers of culture, the citizenship that has the right to universal access — not elite, not elite — to culture, is not being beneficial and its council is not meeting the needs of the sectors. There's a total lack of commitment, and when we talk about collapse, siege, when we talk about tearing down, we don't say so because yes, we say it from experience, from the absolute knowledge of reality. And since I don't want to disperse, data. First of all, the Galego Dramatic Center has grown from EUR 15,145,000 to EUR 10,532,000. Put your head down. The CGAC of 1,170,000 has grown to EUR 857,000. Counts of pyramids. Three days from the City of Culture, we had a much healthier CGAC. To continue, because time is very scarce in this, at the audiovisual level, which is a sector of what we could be completely proud of, only a long film has been produced in 2016. Since I don't want to waste time, I'm going to ask you about something that you have absolute responsibility, not only as advisor, but as president of the Cultural Industries Agency: what is the general report on Agadic's management corresponding to 2016? According to Decree 150/2012 of 12 July, in the first quarter of this year you have to have that report: if the agency is transparent, if the agency is effective, if the agency is efficient. Please give us that data. Tell us, too, what is your plan of action; tell us, too, what are the targets for the years 2017 and 2018; and tell us, please, what mechanisms you have planned to enable the Galician Union to prevent the limit, terrible, absolute precarious situation with the loss of 7,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u315	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u316	Mrs. Cuña, I suppose you know this document, pages 199 to 229. Here's Agadic's activity. You can consult him without any problems. Well, I think you heard me. Well, I, in truth, Mrs. Acuña, do not share her vision of chaos, of disaster, of the state of Greek culture. I don't share it for anything and the Government doesn't share it for it. I have for a balanced man, for a balanced person, when I make my claims. We're not in the best world possible, but we're not in the worst possible world either. And here you are doing is an absolutely disastrous and pessimistic X-ray. And, look, it makes a correlation that's quite curious, you pose vigor, power, creativity, the impulse of cultural activity with a single parameter: the budgetary amount of the autonomous budget. Well, what do you want me to say? It's a very particular view of culture because, well, administrations have responsibility, all of them! —from local, provincial, autonomous and state. Citizenship has its responsibility, because we're talking about cultural industry, cultural products. And Greek society must also bet clearly on the field of culture. And I think the glass can be seen either half empty or half full, it's lawful in politics; now, you don't see the glass, you don't even see the source. You don't see anything! [[Laughter]] And not so, you know it's not, if this book weren't impossible, absolutely impossible. [[Laughter]] And here there's a lot of cultural activity, a lot of cultural activity, with two or three lines of action: first, that reaches all over the territory; second, that reaches the whole of citizenship; and, third, that strengthens a business sector that employs, that is certain for people who dedicate themselves to culture. And, obviously, that there is behind all this realism. Agadic. We already know your election program wants to be reformulated, or whatever they call it. But I'm going to give you data, because one thing is perception and another is data. Agadic is in progress — as you know perfectly, in addition — several networks and several circuits: 1,257 functions in 2016 — 1,257! — 29 theatre works in five private rooms, 13 subsidized music festivals, 9 scenes and audiovisual and 151 actions that suggested the concrete presence of our products abroad — 17 of them in international audiovisual shows of prestige—. Well, can you do more? Of course! but don't tell me you're making a single movie in Galicia because it's something really amazing what you're telling me here. In any case, we understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u317	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u318	...that the administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u319	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u320	...is an absolute ally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u321	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u322	...of cultural initiatives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u323	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u324	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u325	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u326	Yes, Mr. Román, there's a sensory problem, a problem of myopia, of focus, an auditory problem too, because you don't listen. I was asking you about the Agency and specifically about the units that used to be called production: Galego Dramatic Center, dance... you know it well. And I was asking you specifically about something that you are obliged to report, by reports on the execution, compliances, targets of the Agency in 2016. Your object or your responsibility is to encourage and support culture. Don't talk to me — I've been working on teaching and culture for 40 years — about the reality I know well. Talk to the sector, listen to the demands. The audiovisual sector has a lot of demands to do, it's being abused, we have internationally awarded people not because the Council seeks funding resources to internationalize, not for its own merit and with a lot of effort, which are being abused: important producers and personalities. We have an emerging sector that has no creative niches. The City of Culture — a delusion of pharaonic greatness — absorbs a great deal that has no return. And what we ask of you is at the audiovisual level, which cooperation programmes have been developed with other sectors? For example, concrete things, at the level of theatrical production, have had many problems that need to be solved: the incongruity of legislation; the department of choreographic production, almost without resources; the people of dance are protesting about this. Talk to the people of dance, talk to the people of music, talk to the people of cinema, talk to the people of performing arts and theatre...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u327	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u328	...talk about the circus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u329	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u330	...with all sectors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u331	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u332	And he'll know the reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u333	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u334	Now he's talking about the little book, which is very good, but it's not the reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u335	Thank you. Your time is up, Mrs. Cuña. [[Applause]] Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u336	Madam, the reality is here for you. Here are all the cultural collectives you're talking about, all of them. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] And, look, when you talk about abuse, are you claiming that the Autonomic Administration is mistreating some company by an audiovisual company? I'd ask him to tell me which one, because... I'd tell him to tell me which one. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u337	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u338	...because I'm surprised...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u339	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u340	I'm surprised because you say we don't talk to the sector. Look, I can put you on the table resolutions of Agadic... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u341	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u342	...where all audiovisual projects — fantastic! — with enormous creativity, those who have all the prizes — which have all the awards at national or international level — are supported by the Galician Agency of Cultural Industries. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u343	Mrs. Cuña, please, you can't interrupt. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u344	I'm telling you they have financial support, and some are very important. Which when you say you're mistreating... [[Madam Cuña Bóveda utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u345	Mrs. Cuña, be quiet, please. If I don't have to call order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u346	...I think you really should have a little more caution. [[Murmurs.]] And, look, you were asking me about specific cases. Look, for example, the CDG last year exposed Tartufo, which was a great work, this year we are also with a great production that has had many criticisms and yet it is a success of the public. Public success! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You're talking about the Coreographic Center, man! last year you've been turning the four stations all over the country — by small, rural municipalities...—; success!, at the four stations they've had a lot of public. You tell me about the Galego Center of Art and Image, there's a stable programming, which we're also waiting for different municipalities. The CGAC, man!, I think there's a creative activity in the CGAC quite remarkable. Now, if you tell me, I'd like to have the resources of ten or fifteen years ago, I'd say, of course! But I also tell you one thing, this is a project, the cultural dynamization of the country is a project in which we all have a share of responsibility. And it's a value chain: creative, business, marketers, society and, of course, administrations. And we are always close to those cultural projects, first, that are viable, and, second, that they ask us for support. Along with everyone with more or less resources. And you'll tell me: you don't give them all the money they can; man, you give them what's going on! And, look — just to finish, Mr President — some specific data you mentioned. Look, the cultural industry sector in Galicia is creating jobs, growing, is 5,700, 5% of the national and around 29,200 jobs. In the scenic arts — which you know very well — then, look, in the SGAE — it's not our source — the SGAE Yearbook is telling us there's a balance, they're keeping their representations. And what's the positive? That there are more spectators... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u347	He was interrupted. And that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u348	...and there is, too, more public.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u349	He was interrupted. And with your questions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u350	More public and more collection, with which also in cultural consumption we are experiencing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u351	Thank you. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u352	I insist, the glass may be afraid empty or half full...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u353	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u354	...but you don't have a glass.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u355	Thank you, Counselor. Now he's done his time. Question by Mr Jacobo Moreira Ferro and nine Members/of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Health Council in relation to the process of collecting approaches and suggestions for the development of the Functional Plan and the Space Plan of the Gran Montecelo Project, in Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u356	Question by Mr Jacobo Moreira of the People's Parliamentary Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u357	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Well, in July of last year — practically less than a year ago — the Health Council, which you run, signed an agreement with the Council of Pontevedra. A collaborative agreement to enable the construction of a new hospital that really involves the expansion of the current Montecelo Hospital, with the necessary infrastructure and services. This is the so-called — which is already known as this name — Project Gran Montecelo. The next step was the bidding and adjudication of the Space Plan and the Functional Plan. And, well, in the process of drawing up the Space Plan and the Functional Plan of the Gran Montecelo Project, the Health Council came to deal with a process of social participation, collecting approaches, suggestions, proposals — both from professionals and users, as well as from the patients of the hospitals of Pontevedra Hospital Complex. All with the objective of clearly fixing what are the demands and needs for the future hospital. For us, Counsellor, it is an exemplary process that gives good account of the sensitivity of the Galician Union in the management of public health, a health to which the Galician Union dedicates four out of ten euros. And so what we want to know after this process is what evaluation do you do about the process of collecting these contributions and suggestions in the elaboration of the Functional Plan and the Space Plan of the Grand Montecelo Project? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u358	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u359	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, the truth is, Mr. Moreira, you're right. It's a project already born of consensus. Last year and a half, the president of the board called us and told us that he had a clear priority in the municipality, in Pontevedra's health area, because we've spent many years with different projects and we had to seek consensus at general level. The first thing we've done is to try to hear the political representation, professional representation, the representation, too, of all the neighbors in the Pontevedra area. And we managed to have an initiative and an already clear project, which was the creation of Gran Montecelo, as he says, crowned at that time by the approval of what was that convention with the Pontevedra Town Hall for the improvement of infrastructure and the agitating of it. And from there, we followed the process that we said, that the next firm step to finish as soon as this Great Montecelo was the elaboration of the Functional Plan and the Space Plan. At the beginning of this year, on January 23, 2017, a presentation was made, first, to professionals and trade union representatives, and then days later to neighboring associations, patients and, also, to the political representation of each area. I think they began to see clearly that it was a project that was going ahead and that we were very interested — very much interested — in knowing the initiatives and needs that could be brought to us. This presentation of the team that are making the Space Plan and the Functional Plan — for us a step of the most important, because that's what the final structure is going to define — has begun and the truth is that until now we're very happy. Because an on-line platform was opened so the 4,000 professionals in the area could contribute. He contacted 25 associations of both patients and neighbors. And we had a goal, which was to reach 2,000 individual users who could contribute to this project. In the end, the participation achieved, more than 300 registered professionals, 9 working groups with more than 95 meetings, 8 associations were the ones that made the contribution — as I say, we opened up to all, but 8, finally, they contributed — and we received 2,379 individual surveys. I think it's a unique project at the national level, never before a functional plan or a space plan had been made with such participation of the whole entrem. And a little dynamic was always the same: a elaboration of what the survey is, a distribution in participation, an analysis of this information. And the development of concrete projects that can be part of the project, which we estimated in about three or four weeks, we can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u360	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u361	...to present it to the citizenry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u362	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u363	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u364	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u365	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor. Thank you for your answer. We have to congratulate you on this project, on the way you are doing it and on the result, on the participation of all interested people. From the beginning, we consider this project to be well-directed, well-managed. And I think that level of consensus is probably the prediction that this project is going to be a great success because of the social involvement that is being sought. Not only with professionals -- as we just said -- but also with users, with citizens and patients. I think we can clearly say that the Grand Montecelo is a collective project with a lot of social implications, and that any citizen could give his opinion or suggestion through forms, through the website, or even through an email, I think it's a very positive matter. It contrasts remarkably with how other governments acted, which simply merely presented us with the model of a Montecelo project, an enlargement, which cost 120 million euros and which ultimately was an inexecutable project. I think it's very valuable to see how you are, Counselor, handling this enlargement which is indeed feasible, which has nothing to do with that expansion which was impossible and from which only a model was presented to us where no citizen could participate. In this project you can participate, therefore, it is very much to thank this implication, this good disposition disposition of your counsellor. Finally, it would be of our interest, Mr. Counsellor, to know the aspects of which the inquiry addressed to citizens and users and also what was the focus on which professional participation was directed. Nothing else. We encourage you to follow this path and we also congratulate you on this very successful pioneering initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u366	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u367	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, so that this doesn't seem to be all-virtual, there was cartel, which was installed in all the consulting units, health centers, specialty centers and hospitals themselves. There were polls, too, where citizens could deposit all those incidents. And I comment on participation data, especially at the level that I said of a citizen, which is novice, which is the first time it's done and I think it's going to be an example for the rest of the country. Of these 2,379 citizens who participated, 60% are women. It was asked how many were in the hospital the last year, for example, and 486 of these people who participated were at least ten times in the hospital; that is, they are people who know how to operate perfectly. Of course, what they knew most was the situation in the consultation area, 1,696. And the three spaces that are most important to them and they want to improve -- always making a positive assessment of the health system -- would be emergencies, a percentage of 83% of the cases; rooms too, is a request that 75% consider it necessary to improve; and also the day hospital, 71%. Apart from this, to explain a little bit, he also wondered if they would improve access to the hospital, which is not a health issue but also logically influences it. Internal circulation, if you could get better. As I said, the consultations too. The surgical area of ICU and the waiting rooms would be improved; also the living room as a family, the toilets, the spaces to improve outside of what is the care theme, such as parking lot, outdoor spaces... or suggest the incorporation into the hospital of some new space that doesn't exist today, in which they also participated. I think, as I say, at the end of the process is very positive, very, very positive, where the highly recognized professionals have seen themselves. There were meetings — from these ninety and so many meetings that we talked about — in which there were 100 people at the meeting of all the plants, not just heads of service, but any professional who wanted to belong, and they took the project with illusion. Of course, to begin with, we're listening to what they want to tell us. And users, up to 114 people left their email to receive the news, the changes, they wanted to be directly involved, and I think it's very positive. And saying where there are improvements, always a high percentage said I was happy with the health system, but I understood that we could get better considering, in addition, that we talked about the next thirty or forty years. And finished with the summary. It's really a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u368	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u369	...the functional plan that eventually went...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u370	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u371	...2,700 people who participated in it, with a lot of suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u372	Thank you. Last question. Question by Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and six other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the current situation of resources and the quality of the social policy centres of the province of Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u373	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u374	Yes, good afternoon. Counsellor, the Social Policy Enterprise Committee of the province of Coruña has denounced during 2016 the situation of progressive deterioration and abandonment of the centres, especially of direct attention, registered to the Council: senior residences, juvenile centres, the Centre for Care for Persons with Disabilities of the Coruña, having come — as we said in the question — to an alarming situation for job cuts that threaten the quality of services and the maintenance of basic services provided at these centres. The company committee had made a whole series of visits to the various centres to assess the conditions of work, the state of the facilities, the demands of the staff, the deficiencies of the centres and all those circumstances and factors that could influence the daily work, the care of users, as well as the safety and health of the workers. The committee also intended to transfer to the Council and to the public itself the deficiencies and needs identified in centres of both social transcendence and those we are talking about. This situation even came to be formulated before the institution of the People's Valedor, which gave a reply by one — I have said so — simply a transfer of the answer of the Council itself. Let us bear in mind that, if we were previously speaking on the basis of a previous question from a highly feminist sector of work that was suffering from a hard work situation, such as textiles, it turns out that the centres of the Social Policy Council in the province of Coruña, and I suppose that as a general rule, they employ more than 1,500 workers, being 95% women — practically the total of the staff, we take this situation into account in particular — with a high rate of temporality, and not being the staff representatives of this committee of companies at the provincial level sufficiently attended to their very frequent requests for information at the various offices and addresses of the Council. One situation that is increasing the whole problem, including assistance, was the suspension we have repeatedly denounced under Article 19 of the V Single Collective Convention of Galicia regarding travel and rest, which was affecting — and still affecting since 2012 — the conditions of work and health of all staff, and therefore the conditions of assistance. In larger centres in a special way, it seems entirely or very much abandoned to the social aspect of care, being limited, that is, to basic care, and not periodically reviewed the degrees of validity or disability that are needed to reallocate the necessary resources. It is also reported, by all the professionals in these centres, that there is a lack of sufficient training of staff and, above all, of working protocols to meet, for example, the recent incomes in the mental health field that are entering these centres. That's why our group wants to move this question to the Council...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u375	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u376	...which was also precisely the reason for a motion for a resolution on the basis of the proceedings of the Board of Auditors to find out the quality of care of the centres in the province of Coruña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u377	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u378	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, the aim, of course, of the Council of Galicia in its centres is to provide the best services. So I can't coincide with your words that you're providing an inefficient service in our centers. On many occasions, precisely in this House, I've been discussing direct management, indirect management and other things. So what I want to say to that statement that you do is that attention is very good at our centers, and that, in addition, part of that very good attention is due to the magnificent professionals that the Social Policy Council has at the different centers. Thousands of center professionals we have throughout Galicia. In fact, you ask me in your question of a letter from the Business Committee of the Province of Coruña that was sent to the office of the People's Valedor in May. The People's Valedor office required all the information from the Social Policy Council. In the next month, all the information, which is 50 sheets, was provided, and I suppose you could check as a point-by-point point many of the things that were said in that extensive report that we — I say — answered the following month. In any case, tell him that this advisor and his entire management team always appreciate the contributions that our workers, our union representatives make, and I have the instruction given to all my high offices to have all the meetings that are requested with the union representatives of the Council, as I am aware that they are monthly and bi-monthly, and the councillor himself is also available for when necessary. That, of course, is my culture and that's what I've been conveying to my management team. Similarly, in the matter of equipment, I can tell you that for the first time union representatives of the Social Policy Council participated in the designation of equipment from the different centres. I'm talking about equipment in senior homes, in juvenile centers and so on, in 2016. As for some of the performances, I can tell you that the most important centres that stand out had very important performances. San José de Calanz juvenile centre, very important reforms. You can go see him whenever you want, talk to your workers whenever you want, and you can tell him what I'm saying right now. A previous year's investment of more than EUR 700,000. You can do the same...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u379	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u380	...in the juvenile centre of Ferrol...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u381	Thank you. You've got another shift, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u382	...in the residence of the eldest of Oleiros, in the residence Back of Castro...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u383	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u384	...in the residence of Majors of Caranza and in the CAP of the Coruña. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u385	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u386	Replica, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u387	Counsellor, if as a result of the complaints and analysis of the situation carried out by the Provincial Business Committee of the Province of Coruña during 2016 at last at the Council, they are talking to them to participate in the equipment process, welcome be that new attitude regarding the representation of all the workers, which is indeed the largest capital of the Council's centres. But it is really hard to understand that too much progress is being made in the staffing system. I am no longer talking about programmes and other assistance resources, but at the maintenance level of these centres. You don't have to be too far from the Dependent Persons Care Center in the city of Coruña to realize all the trouble they have. There are photos everywhere of situations that are really rather eloquent of a situation that should not go on like this. At the Major Tower Ballester Center we also have a number of maintenance situations, from which we are constantly being informed by the workers, and I think we must, among all, continue to correct this situation. At the Virge do Carme Juvenile Center in Ferrol, there are enough squares to meet all the incomes. And at the Oleiros Senior Center, which is a center with a special concern, I'd like to know -- and if you don't say so -- if it's true that we just have at night an assistant clinic person to attend to 44 large dependents. It's a situation I ask that, if it's not so and I'm wrong, they correct it, because I think it's serious enough. But, Counsellor, the allocation of budgets for the maintenance of centres of these characteristics I doubt a lot is enough to go on with a minimal improvement in the quality of care. In reform of care centres, from 2016 to 2017 budgets were reduced by almost a million euros. And in the program 312E, from Social Services, to care for older and disabled people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u388	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u389	...has reduced budgets by 40% since 2009.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u390	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u391	Take all the trouble into account...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u392	Thank you. You've finished your shift. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u393	...of labour sinequality, precisely in social policy centres, on the basis of application...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u394	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u395	...of the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u396	That's it, time's up. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u397	All right, thank you very much. The truth is, as I said before, we have thousands of workers in the Social Policy Council; we have hundreds of work centres; we have spent moments of difficulty and important restrictions on public spending; but we are at a different point, I tell you the truth, in the Social Policy Council. Only in the province of Coruña, which is why you're asking me, last year an investment was made in our centres far more than in previous years: 3.2 million euros; 2.6 in works and 0.6 in investments. Now, as you know and as the union representatives of the province of Coruña know, there's an estimated 1.6 million for improvements and equipment in the province of Coruña. I'm telling you that before the end of the year, we're not going to run this amount, but we're going to overcome -- that's our expectations -- the amount executed in the previous year, precisely because when we go through the centers, both the counsellor and the high offices of the council, we're actually seeing a lot of things that we can get better and that we're really improving. But really, I invite you to ask many of the people who work to see if you're really noticing the bigger investment we're having in Galicia for our social policy. In relation to the other part of the question, in which I was talking about working conditions, I am not going to repeat what has been discussed here with regard to the general collective convention of the Galician Union, but though concrete things that correspond exclusively to the Social Policy Council. Look, in the last public job offer we've managed to have 155 more workers in the Social Policy Council's direct care centres, they're already covered right now. We expect the general budget of the state to have the new public job offer, and we hope to overcome it as well, as in investment, that amount that will allow the service to be improved but also something very important: if we say that workers are an important part of the Social Policy Council, it's also very important that they can work in very appropriate conditions. Look, since 2016 -- I can't tell you from before -- the consecutive working days for people who worked on shifts have dropped from 7 consecutive days to 5, from 2 consecutive nights to 3 and the reduction in annual hours has also been reduced by 85 hours. It was the first time, in 2016, that is, the year before, that there was no collective conflict. Every year we go to trial for a collective conflict...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u398	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u399	...is the first time you don't think about it. I say this, too, wishing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u400	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u401	...that this year we can reach the necessary agreements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u402	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u403	... so that it won't happen again. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-10-DSPG028.u404	Thank you. Finish the full here. Good night, everyone.
