ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u1	Good morning. Let us resume the session with agenda item 5, which corresponds to questions for the oral reply of the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the responsibility of the President of the Union in resolving Galician problems
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u2	We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, this year you say good news to the economy of the Greek families. We have the most expensive gas oil and gas in the state, and that's with a refinery at the entrance of the Coruña. We have the bill of the most expensive light in all of Europe, even though we are a surplus country and we export electricity. And we've been enduring a few beaches that are a real legalistic scam and that, above all, the year that Mr. Rajoy comes in, he's going to rise by 4%, twice as much as the state average. It's no wonder the IPC is shot in Galicia, and I don't want to think about what's going to happen in January when this increase in the rates of AP-9 takes effect. And this, in addition, in a country that's in line for wages. But this reality is not the fruit of a chance, it is the consequence of its irrelevance, which leads us to the strategy of political subordination that you have with Rajoy. An irrelevance that not only drags him to you, he's dragging all of Galicia. We paid this irrelevance more late in the AVE and less state investments. We pay this irrelevance also with a railway that, except in the La Coruña-Vigo frame, the rest is absolutely decimononic. We paid this irrelevance with the exclusion of the Atlantic freight corridor and with that phantom candidacy to accommodate a laboratory that was going to disappear. Mr. Feijóo, did you sell smoke or are you just making fun of yourself? Make it clear, because in either of these circumstances it goes very badly. [[Applause]] But, look, allow me to stop in the situation of the AP-9 fees, even if it's just because you're in a couple of hours, you're going to go to an act by the Minister of Development. And for the dignity and respect of the Greeks and the Greeks, I ask you to act as President of Galicia and move you that this country is not to bear any more discrimination; nor to continue to grapple with the multimillionaire benefits of Audasa, and much less when our people have wages that do not allow you to arrive at the end of the month. We assume from the BNG that you will take advantage of this meeting to transfer the goat of the Greeks and the Greeks to this coat of hair, and I make three proposals for this meeting. First, stop the rise of the fees and instead start January with bonuses and discounts, like all the highways have. Second, demand that it be the State or Audasa who assumes the cost of expanding that infrastructure. And thirdly, to demand that the veto be lifted to transfer. For once, Mr. Feijóo, bring solutions and stop looking for guilty. All these years his culprits have always been Zapatero, the Bipartite... now, in recent times, he's got a new wildling, he's got the process and the Basque dome. But the problems of this country are not solved. That's why, Mr. Feijóo, I ask you whether you, as President of the Board, can solve any problems in this country or simply keep looking for culprits.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, the time of the rally is at least a year and a half ago. And in that time of the rally, the Greeks learned to figure out what is the responsibility of each group and every candidate. And that's why you're still here giving a rally and I'm still here trying to figure out exactly what you're asking me. But with great honor, I'll try to answer you. Look, Your Honor, the year ends with an important union agreement because 30% of the minimum interprofessional salary will grow over the next four years. The year ends with an important deal because the Greek economy is going to continue to grow this year, already consolidated, 3%; and we've been growing three years cumulatively by 3%. The year doesn't end badly from the point of view of unemployment, because we have less unemployment than in 2008, when you were ruling, in times of economic kindness. I don't know how this year will end from the infrastructure point of view, but the truth is that we are still the second autonomous community with the largest investment per capita in infrastructure. In short, Your Honor, what we're trying to do is to fix the problems we encounter when we arrive; for example, the Atlantic corridor. You didn't say anything at the time, but Galicia stayed out of the Atlantic corridor in the Socialist Party negotiations in 2011 in Europe. You shut up, as you said, for example, when the Socialist Party agreed with Audasa an increase in the fees for this year in 2011, published in the Official Gazette of the State 48 hours before voting. And you shut up, too. I didn't shut up, Your Honor; I didn't shut up now or I didn't. And that's probably why the Greeks, when the rally is over, went to vote and now I'm answering to you and you're just talking to me about what you want. You have every right, but it gives me the feeling that I have, of course, no encouragement to remember Mr. Zapatero, and much less Mr. Bipartito, I can assure you. Those times are to be forgotten, no doubt. But by the insistence that you persist and insist every time you talk to me about things, you have to understand that, if you ask me about the increase in the traffic to the highway, I have to remind all the Greeks — who are very intelligent — that the traffic to the highway is rising because you — who were unconditionally supporting Mr. Zapatero — were silenced when Mr. Zapatero promised that we would pay the works of the highway in the form of beaches. You guys, then, move it through the forum. Look, Your Honor, the irresponsible follow-up of Catalan nationalism and Basque nationalism is up to you. My point is to tell the Greeks the truth. When you want a financing system just like the Basque cup, I have to tell the Greeks that this system means important losses to Galicia. Cipher experts at least EUR 1 billion less investment and funding each year. But you, as you are interested in being a nationalist at any cost, regardless of Galicia, so you vote. But we, Your Honor, will continue to work, I can assure you. I will continue to assume all my responsibilities, such as denouncing the oil tankers because we have the gas oil not the most expensive one in Spain but the third most expensive one in Spain, having here a refinery. Since when you were ruling, I don't remember any complaints about it. As you see, when we rule we denounce the oil tankers. And in the light receipt, Your Honor, the receipt of light in Galicia is the same as in the rest of Spain, with a difference: that electricity companies now blow up an electric canon — and we have collected EUR 130 million — that when you rule you just warned them; that is, they didn't demand it; that is, they didn't impose it on them. That's why I feel, Your Honor, very pleased to try to defend the Greeks, sometimes successfully and sometimes less successfully, but never with lies. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u7	Well, Mr. Feijóo, you don't fail and, indeed, today you have taken out all the wilds from the public who are used to us so as not to assume any of your responsibilities. [[Applause]] And, look, you actually have the responsibility to rule and not to oppose the opposition, as you do continuously. And you have the responsibility to govern and defend the interests of this country, and not your service to Rajoy, who is out of our sight to all the Greeks and to all the Greeks. I made three proposals to you regarding AP-9, since you're going to have today or you're going to attend an act that organizes the Minister of Development. Are you going to transfer the goat of the Galicians and of the Greeks for this huge booty of hair with the rise of the beaches? Yes or no? Are you going to ask the minister, instead of raising the fees, to apply discounts and lowers as all state highways have? [[Applause]] Yes or no, Mr. Feijó? Tell us. Because, look, you know, just as I know and you know anyone at least informed, that, if Mr. Rajoy's Government seemed so prejudicial to that agreement that he signed Zapatero's Government, why didn't you change it? And if everything was so simple why, instead of changing that agreement, what they did was approve another one in 2013 what it does is double the expected rise? Of course, Mr. Feijóo, the problem is that, while this infrastructure depends on the state, what we're going to have is to have the Greeks and the Greeks are more peas and more peas, because they're defending Audasa's interests but not the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. This is an infrastructure that is amortized and requetemortized. And what's important right now is what you're going to do, Mr. Feijóo. Because, look, the BNG criticized all the abuses of that concessionaire, who had ruled. Yes, yes, yes, Mr. Feijó. And, whenever you like, we go to the logbooks and see what everyone voted for. Yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you want me to remind you who sold AP-9? Who sold AP-9? Mr. Aznar when you were counsellor of Territorial Policy. Do you want me to take the statements out of what you said in this gallery when the BNG brought them against this scam in this country? [[Applause]] He said there was no problem, it was a good deal for Galicia to sell for 1,500 million euros to AP-9. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But laugh, because while you laugh, Mr. Feijóo, the Greeks and the Greeks who have wages that do not allow them to arrive at the end of the month...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u9	...they're going to have 4% more tolls. You also laughed at the Greeks and the Greeks when I told them it was a good business selling AP-9 at the price of balance. And today the most serious thing, Mr. Feijóo, is that you are becoming a genuine monk of Mr. Rajoy and that his political ambition does not allow him to defend the interests of this country because he believes... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u11	...that may go wrong in the future, and prefer to wave to Rajoy rather than defend the interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u13	...in this country. And look, I feel sorry for myself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u14	Thank you. You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u15	...is that you are leading us to political irrelevance. And I don't care about you, I'm worried about Galicia, because it's making us lose opportunities. And that's, Mr. Feijóo, the underlying problem and what you don't want to face. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u17	Your Honor, the Journal of Sessions is a good witness, and that's why I have no drawback to the Journal of Sessions. Votes for self-sustainment? Mrs Pontón, not —The Diary of Sessions. Votes for self-sustainment? People's Parliamentary Group, all yes — Diary of Sessions, the history of Galicia, Mrs Pontón, the history of Galicia. [[Applause]] Second business of Mrs. Pontón and her group: agreement with Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez to raise the toll of Rande and Barcala. Votes for Galicia paying 50% of the cost of lifting the fee of a state highway? Mrs. Pontón's and his group. Vows against? People's Parliamentary Group as a whole. That's the story, Your Honor, and the reality. That's the story that the Greeks have to know, and that's the story, Your Honor, of the Atlantic Highway. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, when you were ruling, it was incredible to get anything more and nothing less than 8% of the state budget. Now we rule, we get 11% of the state budget and it's a disaster — nationalists said. Let's move on. We have EUR 341 per capita in investments. The average of Spain is 185 euros per capita. Turns out we have almost twice as much as the rest of the Spaniards and this is a disaster. You follow those disasters, Mrs. Pontón, but the disasters of your party. Look, Mrs. Pontón, I'm not going to defend the increase in rates, of course not. That's what the Socialist Party has signed up for. But what I will certainly not ignore is that, when you were ruling in the year 2007, the toll went up just as it is now. Mrs. Pontón, listen, the fee in 2007 rose to 3.72 % and then there was not a mile of work to be paid. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] Don't confuse the Greeks, we know how to add and stay. In 2009, Mrs. Pontón, in 2009, the fee of the motorway again rose by 4.35 per cent, and then there was no need to pay a single kilometre of work to expand the highway. [[Applause]] And I'm sorry you don't tell the Greeks that in 2015 the fare of the highway rose zero, that in 2016 the fare of the highway rose zero, and next year it will rise 4%. That is, in three years, the highway's rate rose by 4%, the same as in 2009 or 2007 when you agreed with Mr. Zapatero. But, of course, don't count on me to bless this increase in pay, in no case, and much less count on me to explain in no way why the Socialist Government agreed with Audasa that contract — in my opinion, absolutely favourable to the concessionaire — 48 hours before voting in the elections of the year 2011. In any case, Mrs. Pontón, you do very nice things. First, ask me why I quote Mr. Zapatero and the Bipartite constantly, and then complains that you answer by alluding to Mr. Zapatero and to the Bipartite constantly. Exactly, Mrs. Pontón, what do I have to do? Defend Galician interests always, but I begin to understand its strategy. Mrs. Pontón, we are less and less critical about what we do here and more about what they do elsewhere. And that's a good indicator. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Question by Dr. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the objectives which the Autonomous Community of Galicia should have in revising the system of self-financing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u19	Mr. Leicega, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u20	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, this question has a precedent a year ago, when we've talked about this in this plenary. And I hope it doesn't turn into a classic and we can celebrate next year a more favourable model of self-financing for Galicia. It must be said that after the question we made an effort and agreed in January, or February, of the year 2017 already in this Parliament to support that expenditure needs were the center of the system, that the leveling was total, that aging and dispersion had more weight, as well as other central elements of the model. But there was an important discrepancy that we were unable to resolve. The central discrepancy is about the volume of resources that we should aspire to have the General Administration of the State approach to the model, to cover the deficiencies that it had during the crisis and which resulted in an adjustment in important variables. And we weren't able to reach an agreement on what Galicia wanted to achieve from that increase. Where should Galicia be? You didn't want to enter this subject. They said it wasn't the time. Afterwards, a commission of experts worked that gave rise to a dictatorship in July. And in addition, you have met on different occasions with other autonomic presidents and signed a protocol that enters these issues. In both cases there is a need for vertical leveling, for the General Administration of the State to come up with resources. We agree with that. For example, in the expert committee, an estimate is made and it is said that, in order to compensate for what the autonomous communities have ceased to perceive in these years, the central administration should reach between 8.700 and 16.000 million for the system as a whole. That's what the expert committee says. Read the report. In any case, that should be enough to make it possible to meet autonomous needs in basic services at the pre-crisis level. And in point 3 of the agreement you signed with Asturias and Castile León, you say that the correction of the funding deficits in the services presented by the current model providing the system with greater resources is a necessity. I mean, it's stuffing itself. And it's also diagnosed that there is a dependency deficit, social expenses, health care and education. We agree with that. In that agreement, in addition, you defend the status quo, which also means that the Central Administration has to bring new resources to the model, because that's what allows no community to lose. So you agree with what we said we had to do last January, and you weren't able to vote. But since July, we don't know anything, there's an informative blackout. This Parliament does not know what is happening. He's negotiating the Economic Councillor, the Director General, with the Central Government, like other autonomous communities, but Parliament is not informed. The first thing we claim is transparency, but we also demand something more, we demand that you tell us what your objectives are, what is the minimum level of what the central government must reach so that autonomous communities have the capacity to provide basic services in good condition. What do you think? Where do you put the limit? And secondly, what is Galicia's minimum level of exigencies in relation to these additional funds? What percentage should you aspire to capture? These are the issues that citizens must answer if they want to act with transparency, if they want to act by exercising firmness and, therefore, if they want to manifest their leadership. I think that's your role as president of the Galician Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u21	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, indeed, a year ago you asked me, in very similar terms, about how the financing model was going. And you gave me some advice I wrote down. He literally said, "What you have to do" -- you said -- "is to weave complicities, external complicities, internal complicities, political and civil society." As you see, Mr. Leicega, I took note of your proposals. Indeed, we have complicities. First, take Galician position to the Conference of Presidents and get it approved. That is to say, to make fincapé a basic principle, which is the actual cost of services, and to do something important for the first time: that we include in that agreement of the Conference of Presidents a proposal from Galicia to make fincapé specifically in the expenditure of health; two objectives achieved which, as you know, were not easy, because there was a president who did not agree with these two principles. The second thing we did, not to weave external complicities, was the agreement you just signed, an agreement with a president of the People's Party in Castela-Leon and an agreement with a socialist president in Asturias. That's weaving complicities, Mr. Leicega. And the second thing we have done is internal complicities: agree with you the expert, the expert who represents the interests of Galicia in that national commission of experts from autonomous communities who prepare a proposal that will subsequently be taken into account by the Government of Madrid. And secondly, agree on basic criteria. And you and I have agreed, you and your group have agreed on basic criteria that are in the Parliamentary Sessions Journal. These basic criteria I'm not going to step aside apex. So, Mr. Leicega, I don't think that would be consistent with your proposals and with our answers. If you tell me that we have to continue to transparent, I promise you that in the next session — this is the end of today — the Government will appear in committee to give a concrete explanation of the criteria that the Government transfers to the Ministry of Business, so that you can verify that these criteria that you and we agree are still standing. It's very important the nuance you put in your question. He said, "Will it be, fortunately, next year, the year of self-financing?" It depends a lot on the Socialist Party, Mr. Leicega. Yes, yes, very much. You know that without you, there will be no autonomous financing system. It depends a lot. And, as far as you can, it also depends on you as president, nothing more and nothing less on the Socialist Party in Galicia. Mr. President of the Socialist Party in Galicia, do you agree with Mr. Iceta or not? Do you agree that the debt owed by central governments has been transferred to rescued autonomous communities or, on the other hand, is it in agreement with the German Government that this cannot be forgiven? Right, Mr. Leicega, do we have a lot to talk about? That's our proposal. By the way, if there's a constitutionalist government in Catalonia, it's very likely that there's a financing system. If, on the other hand, there's an independent government, it's practically impossible that there's a financing system. It would be very important — from Thursday we will know. Mr. Iceta is in no way in favour of voting for any constitutionalist candidate to be President of the Generalitat but if he would be willing to preside over a Government of the Generalitat supported by the Republican Left of Catalonia and by Podemos de Cataluña. You will understand, Mr Leicega, that in order to speak of funding, we must also talk about political commitments with the State. We have a political commitment, first of all, to Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u23	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u24	...and also with the state as a whole. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Leicega's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u26	Yes, Mr President, I'm going to have to ask you for a round of appearance in this plenary so that you can explain it to me. But, in any case, indeed, I am also concerned about what happens to the matter of debt. Recently, Fedea published a study signed by the expert proposed by the Ministry, which has a central role in the negotiation of the model. And do what he tells us about this study. Tell us two things: that, according to the 2009 model, between 2012 and 2016 Galicia was funded in terms of adjusted inhabitants — i.e., considering already dispersion, aging and all these variables — above average. The 2009 model wasn't so bad. The 2009 model had a problem, which had to develop at a time when there was a brutal state income crisis in general. But on the other hand, the model itself was not so bad for Galicia — above average. And then there are the extraordinary financing mechanisms, those you mentioned in your answer to my question, which Mr. Montoro set in motion as of 2012. And what do you say the calculations of this Ministry expert on this subject? For there were some communities, among them Catalonia, but not only, that had a very favourable result according to this model of extraordinary montoro financing. For Catalonia this has meant five thousand and a half million euros of additional funding in these five years, five thousand and a half million. Do you know how much I thought for Galicia? 29 million. Some communities, 140 euros per inhabitant and year; Galicia, one euro, the worst treated of all autonomous communities. And, of course, you know what's going on? That, taking into account the two mechanisms, the usual mechanism of the system and the extraordinary mechanism put in place with Montoro, it turns out that in 2015 Galicia already has a per capita funding adjusted under the system average. You are the President of the Union who, for the first time in history, has the sad role to play in seeing how his autonomous community is beneath the average, for the first time in the history of autonomy. And, above all, it has the sad role of having happened without saying anything, without telling Mr. Montoro, without telling him: This is unacceptable, you are doing something that is not acceptable for the whole of Greek society, because they are funding more the non-fulfilling communities in front of those who meet, because they are funding more those communities that have more resources, such as the Autonomous Basque Community, in front of communities like Galicia, who have more resources needs. And that's your responsibility, Mr. Feijóo. You tell me what you plan to do. And surely, if it's an effective action, I'll be willing to accompany him to the end on this path. But you have to tell me, as president, don't move the question, that now I can't answer it, don't move the question, tell me what you've planned to do to solve this issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u28	Because this is going to condition the future of self-negotiating, and we have to get everyone on that stage, which is a very serious scenario for Galicia, twisting her wrist and getting our goals to be met in the future. I hope to count on you, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u29	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Close this question, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Very interesting, Mr. Leicega, what you just said. I'm going to ask for a copy of the Journal of Sessions to take you to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. What the Socialist Party says in Galicia is very interesting. No, no, thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What happens is, you may have forgotten that this is my speech since 2013, year 13, year 14, year 15, year 16, year 17. Yes, Your Honor, I leave here the whole press summary, if you're interested, the whole press summary. [[Murmurs.]] You can read whatever you want. We do not agree with the system of debt, we do not agree with the forgiveness of interests, we denounce absolutely that the non-compliant communities have better treatment than the fulfilling communities, we will never accept in any case than the socialist communities —Valencia, for example, Andalusia, for example, Castile-La Mancha, for example — if they are forgiven the interests of debt and the Greeks have to continue paying. Don't you remember, Your Honor, that for five years I've been holding this posture and now it turns out you're coming to tell me what I've done? Your Honor, continue to denounce these kinds of issues and not accept them. Unfortunately, what can't happen is that your party agrees with the forgiveness of your debt. And you come here now to tell the Greeks that you are not from the Socialist Party for these purposes. But the Socialist Party, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, said that he agreed to forgive the debt because there were autonomous communities — Valencia, Catalonia — that were underfunded. And do you come to tell me here that you don't agree with the forgiveness of your debt? Mr. Leicega, what are we talking about, serious issues or jokes with the Greeks? I will not change my mind: I do not agree with the forgiveness of debt, I do not agree with the forgiveness of the types of interest, I will defend Galician interests in front of this government and any other. That's why, Mr. Leicega, we can understand. But it's possible to understand if you make a serious speech. Because on one occasion I've heard you say that forgiveness, if done properly, might be interesting. Now, this morning, tell me you can't forgive your debt. So, Mr. Leicega, who are you with? We have very clear who we are: with the interests of Galicia. If they match the central government, let's align ourselves; if they don't agree, let's refuse. And that's why we're proposing something with absolute loyalty, with absolute firmness. We will continue to consider the objective criteria, the actual cost of services — which is at the Conference of Presidents — and the important weight of public health in the financing system, because it accounts for 40% of the resources of the autonomous communities — which is at the Conference of Presidents. And, following his wise proposals, we have a network of internal and external complicities. And it is appropriate, Mr. Leicega, to continue to speak in the future, that you, the Socialist Spanish Workers' Party in Galicia, tell us whether you are in favour of or not of the forgiveness of public debt and whether you are in favour of or not of the granting of the interest of debt to self-employed non-compliant communities. That's the key to having a common posture. We're against it. If the Socialist Party is against us, we will continue to move forward. But, Mr. Leicega, we have a problem: Galicia has lost, since we have subscribed to the agreement so far, more than 77,000 inhabitants. That's the main problem we have right now, and, as you know, losing population makes it difficult to maintain funding. You know it perfectly well, but undoubtedly we're going to keep working. And my question is quite easy: do you follow the manifesto signed with Castile-Leon and Asturias or not? Mr. Leicega, we cannot conclude that it is easier for me to understand myself with the Socialist Party of Asturias than with the Socialist Party of Galicia. And as I'm still waiting and I'm still...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u32	...optimistic with the ability to understand me with the Socialist Party of Galicia, we will come to explain exactly our position. And in that certainly appearance you will be able to clarify the position of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. By the way, then we'll know who the Socialist Party rules with in Catalonia, whether with the independentists or with the constitutionalists. That will be very important for Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Board of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the management that is being carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the public health of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, in health matters, as in so many other matters, you have deceived your voters, because you didn't tell them he was a separatist president. And that's what you are, a separatist president. Because the health reform — whose project they approved in the middle of a bridge, cowardly, so that people don't understand — separates patients from hospitals, and in health, the distance kills. Health is a basic fundamental right of all people, and access to this right must be guaranteed through a territorial structure with Sergas to the service of citizenship which guarantees equality and equitable access to health services; that is, access to health in a reasonable time. And the separatist president, however, is trying to widen the distances so that people are late. With the suppression of the health areas of Salnès, the Barco, Monforte or the Navy, you worsen people's health, which now has to operate in Lugo, Ourense or Pontevedra when you could do it very close to your home. Yeah, yeah, we'll talk about it now, if you like. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The amendment of the Health Act also consolidates the decline in primary care, which has disappeared in this reform. People go to the doctor and learn about their separatism: they don't cover low, they withdraw their attention and eventually the emergencies collapse. Debilitating the territorial structure of Sergas, the separatist president weakens the assistance capacity, so it will be impossible to meet the deadlines of the Guarantee Act, diverting an even more important part of public resources from private health, something that is already happening with the implementation of EOXI. With the reduction in the activity of the comarcal areas, you fired the waiting lists and, with this excuse, the derivation of patients to the private, which the public system could handle perfectly. This trend is now reinforced by the suppression of health areas. But the whole point of its pre-power and separatism is that you believe yourself with the power to decide about people's life and health, charting a dividing line between life and death with an office schedule. You refused to establish a 24-hour hemodynamic service in Lugo, you separate those who suffer from a heart attack after 3 p.m. nothing less than 80 minutes from the possibility of surviving. Man, what a barbarity, indeed. [[Murmurs.]] The optimal attention time is 90 minutes, the maximum recommended time is 120. And, after 3 p.m., an infarction in the area of Lugo's health area takes an average of 160 minutes to be attended. We wonder who thinks you're to decide this way about people's lives. God? You'll have an absolute majority, but you can't condemn Lugo's province to a greater risk of infarction mortality because of its prepotence. For medical reasons? No, for economic reasons. Because the doctors say otherwise, and so they demonstrate it by the president of the Spanish Society of Cardiology or by the head of the Cardiology of the HULA. In short, all those who have no economic interests and only use medical criteria consider a 24-hour service essential. But Galician citizenship does not resign to this situation, we are vaccinated against its separatism. People in the health areas — including those who voted for the PP — have suffered from primary care cuts, waiting lists and drifts more than 100 kilometers away. To remove doctors has vaccinated people against the People's Party, because people have not voted for them to be taken away by the doctor or sent them to Lugo, Ourense or Pontevedra for attention that has so far been held close to their home. He hid his health separatism and people didn't forgive him, because they suffered the cuts. That's why, during this fall...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u35	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u36	...people went out into the street massively—if, with their voters in the head and with some discouple mayor, tired of endangering their lives and their health. And the question is clear: when will it stop practicing health separatism?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u37	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. For a moment I thought today was the day of the innocent Saints, Mr. Villares. I don't know if you've become a constitutionalist now, but don't worry about my separatism. [[Laughter]] I'm a Democrat who accepts the laws. And if he didn't accept the laws, he wouldn't take office as a Member. There are others who do not accept the laws, but they still use them to be in this House. And there are others, even, who had the obligation to fulfill them and make them meet them and, as far as they can see, they don't believe in anything. I'm an absolute disparity from the constitutional, statutory point of view and from any point of view. Now, there you and your conscience, Mr. Villares. Look, what we're going to do is improve our country's public health. I don't say so, the health barometer, the last of February 2017, says that in primary care 84% of the Greeks believe that we are equal or better; in hospitals, 68% of the Greeks, equal or better; in hospital care, 71% of the Greeks believe that we are better or equal; and, for example, in emergencies, 62%. But if you want to follow the percentages of Welsh people who prefer public health over private health, because in Galicia many more prefer public health than private health. In Galicia 83% prefer primary public care, and in Spain 69%. And, in hospitals, in Galicia, they prefer public 68% and in Spain 57%. You can keep saying what you want, which gives you the most! How much more does it give you what you say in health if you have no responsibility to what you say, and most of what you say doesn't even know what it means! You don't care exactly! [[Murmurs.]] He doesn't care about anything! You say you are a Member for Lugo. If you're a Member for Lugo, why don't you go around Lugo hospitals to figure out what we're doing in Lugo? For example, we were given an empty building in the middle of an economic crisis and we turned it, with 45 million euros in one year, into one of the best hospitals in Spain. For example, a hospital where there was no nuclear medicine or radiotherapy or hemodynamics, and now you're telling me that people die. What do you mean, when the Bipartite ruled all the people who had these pathologies died in Lugo province because these services didn't exist? But, Mr. Villares, what nonsense is up to you to say in this House, saying that the Socialist Party and the BNG, by not putting on hemodynamics or nuclear medicine or radiotherapy would kill people in Lugo, because there are no such services!Is that what you're talking about? Now it turns out that responsibility is ours to put them on. You keep insisting on this nonsense, which you're going to end up with. Coastal Hospital, area... look, Your Honor, I don't know what you're saying to me. If I know that right now the Coast Hospital is expanding, with an investment of 12 million euros. It's very hard to say that a hospital has to be dismantled and, additionally, do twice as much hospital as there was before. There was no chemotherapy at the Monforte Hospital. Now there's chemotherapy. It wasn't the digestive endoscopy unit, and now there's the digestive endoscopy unit. And now it turns out, Your Honor, that we are diminishing attention in Lugo. Look, Your Honor, there's nowhere to take what you just said. Now you've become a cardiologist, a cardiologist. You know everything, that's a great advantage. Galician cardiologists are on a commission to follow the evaluation of myocardial infarctions, all cardiologists sitting on the same table. We're going to do what those cardiologists tell us, not what you say, of course, because of responsibility. But in Lugo, 5,000 patients were cared for in that service that you say doesn't exist, 5,000 patients!, which before no one attended. The optimal percentage of myocardial infarction mortality should not rise by 5%. Not in Lugo or anywhere in Galicia is 5%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u40	We'll do as the cardiologists tell us, Mr. Villares. You don't even accept what Cardiologists say and you're more interested in their ideology? Not to me, Your Honor. Above all ideology is the health of the sick, the health of the people. And that's why one of the things I'm most proud of is that this government has made more hospitals than anyone and is betting more for health than anyone else, and in Lugo in a very special way. Mr. Villares, one day you will remember what this Government has done for the public health of Lugo. And, above all, we will remember the barbarities that you say with the health of Lugo and in general. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u42	Look, interventions and specialties that have been done in the Navy in recent times, since you have ruled, since the implementation of the EOXI, the most serious specialties that have ceased to take care of: otorrin surgery, the imposition of pacemakers, fimoses, cataracts, and no magnetic resonances are planned or done. And the consequence is that there are now more waiting lists and more moves. They're data from marine doctors, they're not from En Marea, they're from the marine. You talk about what you're going to do as Cardiologists say, which is what they know. We're glad you're going to do what the cardiologists say! Look what González Juanatey says: "Everything that takes a long time to put on place the hemodynamics 24 hours will be wasted." "HULA's chief of cardiology demands hemodynamics 24 hours." "The president of the section of hemodynamics and interventional cardiology of the Spanish Society of Cardiology, Ramiro Trillo, says the most effective thing is that hemodynamics works in Place 24 hours." You take note of what Cardiologists, specialists say, and therefore immediately put hemodynamically 24 hours in Lugo to ensure the quality of life of patients from all over the east of our country. You're talking about complying with the law. Yes, of course, the law has to be enforced, indeed. Then we won't see, as Mr. Abel Losada said, those of "Under the Royal Corporation," those who are there, who are not complying with the law right now. It seems to the courts too that you do not comply with the law often. And we also speak in terms of health. We speak in terms of health care because you have right now, keeping your government responsibilities, two people, two Sergas seniors, investigated for prevarication and reckless homicide for denying medication to eight hepatitis C patients who needed that medication to survive. Of course, you will be remembered for your health policy, of course you will be remembered for what they did about health, like, for example, denying vaccines that people needed, that children and children needed. Yes!, year 2015, People's Party, Minister Mato... I don't know if they're alone. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u43	Quiet, please! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u44	Is it Minister Mato the President of the Board? "Mato restricts the varicella vaccine to the back of the doctors." Ministry decisions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u45	Mrs. Prado, be quiet, please! Who will answer, please, is the president of the board, who, in addition, knows more about these issues...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u46	What has been the result of this depletion in Galicia and the lack of forecast in vaccination schedules? It was also suffered by all the Galicians and Greeks: " Hundreds of Galicians cross Portugal because of the lack of vaccines against meningitis." But this didn't stay here. In this Parliament itself, the Galician People's Party said, at the mouth of Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo: "The vaccine against meningitis B is not on the road map of the vaccination schedule", despite the recommendations of the pediatric medical societies. This was supposed to take them out of the calendar, which I thought would not finance them, and this meant spending on families — part of having to move to Portugal at first — more than EUR 106 per vaccine — as recommended by three. With which an expense has been transferred to families that had to be assumed by the public system, which tells you what will happen to history during its management. Of course, it will happen to history, but by neglect and separation, by the separatism that you have done between people and their basic health rights. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u47	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, I'd like you to have always asked me about health at the control sessions, or at least once a month, if you like. [[Laughter]] You just invented the service portfolio at the Coast Hospital -- it's in the Session Diary -- all those pathologies, including the endosis, which seems to be not done in the hospital. And you stay so loud! and say you don't do that in the hospital and you're done. Look, let me appreciate the pathologies you just mentioned, because you won't have waste. I don't want to improvise in any case, but what you just said isn't done at Coastal Hospital is surprising. Look, what you're doing at Coastal Hospital is boosting emergencies, hiring more nursing. What we did at the Costa Hospital is we expanded the unit of digestive endoscopy, hiring specialists and nursing. What we're doing at Coastal Hospital is putting on chemotherapy, an onco-hematological hospital with 14 chemotherapy treatment posts. Because before, Your Honor, you had to go to Lugo, and now you're on the coast. And what we're doing at the Coast Hospital is expanding that hospital -- I told you -- with 12 million euros, and you come here saying we dismantled the Coast Hospital. But what's the cost you're talking about? From the coast somewhere in Venezuela or from the really Galician coast? Exactly what are you talking about when you talk about health? [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, if you don't care exactly! Now you tell me what a cardiologist says. I'll tell you what Cardiologists sign in the minutes. No, Your Honor, what Cardiologists sign in the minutes of the Follow-up Commission on Myocardial Infarctions in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] I'm talking about these Cardiologists, about what they sign in front of their comrades. I'm not talking about press statements, I'm talking about the minutes of the Myocardial Infarction Commission in Galicia, I'm referring to those minutes. And we'll do what cardiologists say. By the way, Your Honor, I suppose Ourense also has the same rights as Lugo, right? Or does Ourense not exist for the Tides? Because what's happening in Lugo is exactly the same as what's happening in Ourense. And, by the way, too, there will be Pontevedra. Or hasn't that come to you yet? Look, your intervention is... to note, actually. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He's finally talking about Mr. Villares' vaccines. [[Laughter]] That's very important, Mr. Villares, that you tell me about vaccines. [[Laughter]] Mr. Villares, do you really want to break your group permanently or not? [[Applause]] Would you like to say goodbye to this session by breaking up with your group? [[Laughter]] Mr Villares, do you agree with your group's proposals in the European Parliament that question the therapeutic capacity of vaccines or not? Because now it turns out that you want to break up with your group — especially all you have next to them — and come and tell me about the vaccines. And in Europe it questions whether it is vaccinated for economic interests or for the interests of pharmaceuticals. Look, Mr. Villares, there's no way to take it seriously, and I mean it. In this Parliament demands the health of the Government of Venezuela with T-shirts: "Maduro I swear to you, we vote for you," "Chaves, I swear to you, we will vote for Maduro." True, your slogan was much better than mine. And secondly, in the European Parliament it turns out that they question vaccines. Look, health professionals are vaccinated against En Marea. We know exactly what they think, we know their contradictions, we know that this is what they sound like. There have never been so many benefits, there have never been so many infrastructures, there have never been so many commitments and never, by law, have the comarcas hospitals shielded themselves. You believe in the health of cities. We believe in the cities and the comarcas, and that's why the comarcas hospitals are shielded by the law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u50	...for the first time. There can never be any government in Galicia that eliminates a comarcal hospital, because it is shielded by Parliament's law, and to do so we have to change the law. And for that, Your Honor, you seem to be the lords of the cities and speak of what they tell them in the cities. You have to go to Monforte, you have to go to Burela, you have to go to Barco, you have to go to Verín, you have to go to Vilagarcia, and you check how 230,000 people from these districts didn't have to go to cities for health care, but it's the doctors who approach patients and not the patients who approach doctors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u51	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u52	Mr. Villares, continue to value your vaccines, it's very important. Vaccine your group against demagoxia, it's very important. And, if possible, vaccine your group in favor of the public health unit in Galicia. It's very important.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u53	Thank you, thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u54	But, Mr. Villares, I wish you the best Christmas ever, and you go out against everything. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u55	Thank you. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u56	Before moving on to item 3 of the agenda, which is non-legislative proposals, I am going to report a change in the agenda, which is that the interpellation that appears in the second place will be discussed in the first place — Mr Díaz Villoslada's question. And now we start with the third point, the non-law proposition. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government, as well as to the concessionary company of AP-9, to improve the quality of life and minimize the impact of the various communication infrastructures in the parish of Chapela, in the Town Hall of Roundola
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u57	Amendments have been tabled to the Galego Nationalist Block, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block (BNG), at the initiative of Mr Bará Torres, in the light of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presented the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal, Doc. # 17087 [10/PNP-001290].Replace paragraph 1 with the following text:"Request of the Ministry of Development to be effective in 2018 the abolition of the fee between Roundola and Vigo, to free from heavy and passing traffic the urban nuclei of Chapela and Teis."Additional amendment.Add to point 2 the following text: "To develop, in collaboration with the Town Councils of Roundandola and Vigo and the Ministry of Development, a study on the urban transformation of access by AP 9 to Vigo from the Towers of Padin."Additional amendment.Add to item 5 the following text:"Ask that this action be carried out in the first half of 2018.Add after point 10 the following points: "11. To request from the State Government the non-application of the rise of 3.81 % of the fees in 2018, as well as the renegotiation of the agreements signed with AUDASA by the Ministry of Development in the years 2011 and 2012. Request that the works of expansion of the Rande Bridge be not received as long as the works of improvement committed in the parishes of Trasmanó and Chapela.12. The Ministry of Development and the concessionaire require the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Development and the concessionaire to carry out in 2018 an action plan in 2018 to compensate for the negative impact of works on the extension of the Rand Bridge in the parishes of Trasmanaño and Chapel:- Restoration of goods and services and extension of the bridge access to the parish of Trasmanaño and Chapel:- Restoration of goods and services and extension of the bridge access to the parish of Trasmanaño and Chapel:- Restoration of goods and services and extension of the bridge access to the parish of Trasmanaño, ensuring the security and accessibility conditions for vehicles and pedestrians.- Development of the Plan Plan Plan I responds the role of integral action in improving the quality of life and minimizability and minimization of the impact of road infrastructure infrastructure infrastructure for this parish, with the following actions-based actions-approval of a project for the transformation of the road between the branch and the branch of the branch of the branch of the road and the branch of the branch of the school centre of the Church.-place of the branch of Igre.-19-19-19.-the large.-up.-up.-this-up.-up.-up.-up.-up.-up.-up.-up-up-up-up will ensure the creation of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the operation of the operation of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the structure of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the creation of the new structure of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the creation of the existing of the creation of the creation of the existing of the existing of the existing of the existing of]] [[(G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Abel Losada Álvarez, through the spokesman and the author of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal (10/PNP-001290, document No. 17087).Amendment of amendment to point 2. Paragraph 2 of the resolution of the non-legislative proposal, which shall be drafted with the following content:"2. To request the Ministry of Development to analyse the feasibility of opening the exit, already built, known as Torres de Padín, located in the parish of Teis, in the municipal term of Vigo."Additional amendment.A new point must be added to the resolution of the non-law proposal, which will be drafted with the following content: "10 bis. To demand from the Government of Spain that assumes the cost of the investments made in recent years, such as the construction of new cars in the circle of Santiago de Compostela and in the Vilaboa frame – Teis, the expansion of the Rande bridge; and consequently leaves without effect the extraordinary increase that will apply the future rates as compensation for the investments in these works."Additional amendment.You must add a new point in the resolution of the non-law proposal that will be drafted with the following content: "10 ter. To urge the Government of Spain to conduct the downsizing of the AP-9 affective line in the parish of Chapel to the minimum legally possible."Additional amendment.A new point must be added to the resolution of the non-law proposal, which shall be drafted with the following content:"10c. To urge the Galician Union to reverse the current grounds of the Church College to the Town Hall of Round it once it is moved to its new situation."Additional amendment.A new point must be added to the resolution of the non-law proposal, which shall be drafted with the following content: "10 quintus. To require the concessionary undertaking to carry out the necessary improvements to ensure future access to the parish of Trasmanó, with the appropriate conditions of road safety and comfort; building a new bridge that one road N-552 and the parish of Trasmanó on the AP-9 motorway."]] [[(G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Marcos Cal Ogango and in the light of Rule 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal, Doc. # 17087 (10/PNP-001290).Amendment No 1, substitution.The text of point 1 must be replaced by the following:"1.- Require the Ministry of Development that during 2018 the elimination of the fee between Roundola and Vigo, in both directions, with the aim of releasing heavy traffic this stretch of the national road and allowing equal treatment to the affected neighborhood."Amendment No 2 in addition.At the end of the resolution, the following points must be added:"11.- That establishes an immediate timetable for the preparation of these claims.12.- To address the central government to request the budgetary commitments necessary for the performance of the actions collected in this proposal which are of their competence.13.- The immediate elaboration of a special plan for the follow-up to the safety and health of AP-9 enlargement, with special impact on working days, special risk work and subcontracting")]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u58	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr Pazos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Because, after intervening yesterday without light, having to intervene today without sound already seemed too much to me. So we're going to try to make a proper intervention, because the occasion deserves it. [[Laughter]] I would like to begin this intervention by greeting our guests. Today, we are accompanied by the mayor of Roundabout and part of his corporation, who has been fighting for almost seven years for the Chapel to be given what the Chapel corresponds to. And they're also here and we're accompanied by the representatives of the first one, the PA-9 Work-affected Platform, and now the AP-9 Affected Association, who's been fighting for ten years to be given what belongs to the Chapel. And I want that recognition for them that's been ten years! working for this. [[Applause]] No, I'm saying that because there are others who later joined and we thank them for joining and thanking them for their support. [[Applause]] But you have to know who's been fighting for this for ten years, who knows perfectly the iter of everything that's happened with AP-9 in Chapel. Today we bring a GNP that aims to take a series of palliative measures and corrections of injustices that have suffered too long, in particular, the Chapel, and Round it, in general. You have to know what the origins of Chapela's problems are. Chapel has problems caused by two questions: the first is its geographic situation. The chapel is the largest and most urban parish in Roundola and is located right next to Vigo, next to Teis, and that vicinity with Vigo we all know that it has advantages and disadvantages: the fundamental drawbacks are that Chapel is affected by all the communication routes that it necessarily needs and that we must provide a city of Vigo importance; the geographic issue can hardly solve it at this point — we do not intend to move Chapel. The other source of Chapela's problems is a kind of evil that we could well call the left curse: it's the curse that touches the Chapel every time some of the institutions that affect it there's a left government. And that left-wing government, whenever it arrives, systematically mistreats Chapel. I, listening to some things that were said here yesterday, I think we have to take a brief look at the story. In 2006, the two-party Government of the Socialist Lords and the Galego Nationalist Block, the Government chaired by Mr. Tourinño — are respected in his group today, when he has abandoned politics, we will not talk about the past, right?—that he comes to an agreement with the Ministry of Development, chaired by Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez — known for ending the Galician Plan, known for its reprobation, that he has avoided the Galician Nationalist Block, and known for being today in the bank of what we could call the Depeñaperros Corporation, is it true, Mr. Losada?— For these gentlemen in 2006 made a decision that was the elimination of the toll in the plot of The Morrazo-Vigo. We, if we were to take solutions to improve Morrazo's viability, we have nothing to mention. As for the model that has been chosen, we can already be more critical: first, because that model assumed that the Board assumed 7 million annual costs of a fee on a channel of foundation, which was certainly a curious question. Fortunately, we've put an end to a negotiation that's going to cost 400 million dollars. Yes, yes, 400! Not that one hundred and peak, because, of course, what we assume is half the fee; and, as you know, the toll is rising, especially thanks to the friends who stand on Mr Bara's right, on my left. Look, the other question that we criticize about that decision is the exception, because, curiously, today, you come to worry about the peas that you unjustly suffer Rande, you forget who imposed that fee on you: it was you! You two, gentlemen of the bipartite! You decided to remove the payment of the fee in a whole plot with one exception: the exception of Rounding it up. Why? It's something they haven't explained to us yet. Who does this happen to? Well, to you. And you, to solve a problem at the Morrazo, cause a problem to Round it up. Because for Chapela — obviously, as I said before — Vigo's proximity has advantages and disadvantages, with this decision what they did was to maintain all the inconveniences and advantages arising from the proximity to Vigo, and they disappeared from a clear loss of competitiveness. The truth is it's certainly a curious question, at this point in which we're talking about the metropolitan area, right? That one where you tried to give a coup d'état Mr. Caballero, fortunately stopped by the courts. It's just that permanently, from Vigo, it seems you're trying to systematically attack Chapel, and we've always said it, right? They intend to charge us a parking garage discriminatoryly with respect to the beams. The people of Chapel are forbidden access to the urban bus on an equal footing, as has been the case all life. And even now, because the base of dancing water to you, they also intend to put us into a water problem, from Vigo, and they also want other administrations to solve the problems that you have to solve, that they assume that the problem is supmunicipal, because they give water to Round it, as if the roundabouts we didn't pay Vigo that water, because they charge, but the works that do others. Finally, certainly curious questions. But, following the left curse, to deepen this problem, we arrived at the year 2011: Mr. Zapatero, the Government of which was Minister of Development Mr. José Blanco, you will remember. Well, Mr. José Blanco, forty-eight hours before a general election, decided to extend the Rande Bridge, among other works. And it doesn't just make the decision; it approves and signs the decree. Because now you say, "Why didn't you deal?" Because you have left it signed, ladies and gentlemen, from Mr. Blanco's fist and letter! Yes, he took a very interesting precaution: the rise of the fee — 1 percent per year for 20 years — hid it until after the elections; not a word, not one! That's what we'll talk about after the polls speak. And, of course, we have to read that decree, and in that decree there could be some palliative measure, for example, the elimination of the toll. None of that. Palliative or compensatory measures for Chapela? None! No noise measures, no school, no guards, no humanizations, no alternative ways, nor any of the proposals that you make today in the amendments. But, of course, in the passage of the Government to the opposition you are like Paul of Tarsus: they suddenly have a surprising clarity, they fall off the horse and correct all these things; well, not all of them, because one of the proposals we make is the opening of the Towers of Padin and last week, in the Spanish Parliament, it turns out that an initiative was approved, presented by En Marea, where the opening of the Towers of Padin was proposed, and again the Socialists voted against — we do not know why, because in no way did Vigo prejudice. But someone who has a direct connection with the Members of Vigo turns out that he has called and prevented — he has voted against — that opening. The case is that the Bipartite didn't worry about this, he didn't care about this, Zapatero didn't worry about this either the tripartite and bipartite governments of Roundola, who got zero euros of compensation. And, fortunately, these gentlemen who are with us today — neighbors and governments — have achieved, at the negotiating base with Audasa, that today the compensations for Chapel, which are about to be realized, reach the amount of 7 million euros. You, zero, the current governments and the neighbors, 7 million. They now have a solution for everyone, now they want to take on the cost of the works — of the works you have approved — the Ministry. You didn't take them when you had 21,000 million budgets — Mr. Blanco — and you want them to be taken now, with 7 billion budgets, Mr. De la Serna — a third of what you had. But now the logic is to assume them; then no, it was to impact them on the Greeks. Now they want the government to assume the peas you've negotiated and hidden. Now they're worried about the line of building that affects Chapel, which, fortunately, in those committees, these gentlemen who accompany us have already agreed that it should be kept — not reduced, because we need to know how to talk to the people who have been working in this for a decade — so that they don't get more affected than they already were. Now they're worried about the Trasmannó street, which is about to start its construction, in which, during ten years of socialist rule, absolutely nothing has been done about it. But so far the daring and the lie that I heard here yesterday, things that really make one colorful. Mr. Bará said yesterday that the solution for Chapel was that at his moment in the works he chose to bury himself. Man, I agree. So I agree that we have brought to this parliament a proposal for it to be made exclusively when the work of the bridge was inevitable and if the rest of the works were to be postponed waiting for a better set, to see if this could be done the burial in Chapel, in Teis. You have voted against, Mr Bará, you have! You, who were talking yesterday about the burial, voted against this Parliament. Don't you think it's a little embarrassing to come here and get people's hair? I think it's quite embarrassing! As you lied yesterday, saying that we will not support the proposal you brought to this House. Falso! I, who intervened on that proposal, told him we approved it in full! And you refused: firstly, by accepting an amendment from the Socialist Party — which we have already told you that we would not accept, but you accept it — and then denying us the possibility of voting on points, to approve in full! your proposal. But you've preferred a good headline before worrying about the problems of the neighbors of Chapel. That's the reality! [[Applause]] Look, we have brought here a number of proposals, I think quite reasonable: that we propose in the joint committee the elimination of Rande's toll; that we demand the opening of the Towers of Padin; that we move forward in the construction of the new school — of course, I have to thank the Board for having already produced the reclassification of the lands of the Ginary Farm which make it possible —; I believe that we also have the commitments we have reached in the field of noise correction; that it is guaranteed — that it is almost about to be realized —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u60	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u61	...the post office and the maintenance of the post office; which, of course, comply with all the agreements, which include that maintenance of the lines of attention to the construction of the access to Transmannó and the improvement of the access in Chapela; and a question that we also consider important: that attempts to reconcile the opening of that new lane with the transfer of school students to the new location.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u62	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u63	I look forward to the adoption of these points, and I would like to speak unanimously. And, in fact, today, they don't lie, because these people do know what we're talking about, and maybe they can be offended.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u64	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u65	Good morning. He said the BNG yesterday — and I greet the people who are here representing the institutions and the Town Hall and the neighborhood of Chapel — that the BNG presented yesterday a motion proposing a plan of action for Chapel, the Chapel Plan, and the People's Party voted against. He voted against it, and he did it for the second time in this plenary session of the Chapel Plan. [[Applause]] That was to convert that disaster, the failure of the works of the expansion of the highway — that BNG opposed itself from the very first moment, not like others — in an opportunity to minimize the brute impacts that this infrastructure has. For that reason, and the People's Party voted against this BNG motion yesterday, and the BNG is going to vote for the People's Party's motion today, because we are consistent, because we are not playing trillarian games, as you do with these matters. We're going to vote in favour of it; and we're going to vote in favour, in addition, even if we don't accept our amendments, which we believe are very positive amendments and would make that proposal more effective than law. [[Applause]] Because, of course, you voted against this BNG initiative in April, and we want to take out their mask, because you see why they voted against it: by a childish whim. Nothing but a childish whim, Mr. Pazos, because you liked the BNG motion, but you didn't like two amendments that the Socialist Party presented, which said, nothing more and nothing less, that the access lane was not opened, which caused a brutal impact on the school, while the school was not moved, and that the bridge of access to Trasmannó had been made. That's what bothered you with those amendments from the Socialist Party, and that's why you voted against it, not to approve two amendments from the Socialist Party, which seemed reasonable to us. And that's why we called for the vote of the motion as a whole, in what seemed good to you and what the Socialist Party has contributed in a positive way. That is why it is in Parliament: to negotiate, speak and improve initiatives. And, of course, on this subject, you've always been the backbone of neighbouring mobilizations. And all they did was try to calm down and respond to those mobilisations, which, really, are the ones who have the merit of the little that has moved forward until we get here. But if you bring this initiative here, it is to note three failures: first of all, the failure of the municipal government of the Town Hall of Roundondela, which was unable, through this follow-up commission, to achieve nothing. And, of course, you're talking about the 2011 convention. If they could get something, they wouldn't bring it here, to Parliament, to try here now, through the cousins of Zumosol, to get something. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What happened, Paula Prado del Río? That you're sick, don't change. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, you're talking about the 2011 convention, which was an agreement, it wasn't a decree, as you said; it was an agreement. And in 2012 Mrs. Pastor made a protocol and in 2013 she made an agreement, and she could change the terms of that agreement — are you listening to me? — by Mr. Blanco and include in the agreements she made by the People's Party with the concessionaire in 2012 and 2013, all those improvements to Chapela, and it would be the matter. But you not only applauded the Socialist Party's agreement, but increased it with new compensations to Audasa, which we are going to pay for next month with a new increase in fees. That was the reality. Secondly, it is the finding of a failure of the Roundup Council and the Galician Board in everything that has to do with the slow processing of the transfer of the Chapel school, because the agreement with the concessionaire was signed in March 2015. More than two, two and a half years have passed, and a stone has not moved. It could be the school done, and it turns out that now the student, the teacher, has a real wall of shame placed one meter from the school, when in that agreement it was said that it should be ensured that the activity of the school was maintained in security conditions as it did not proceed to the delivery of the new school. Thirdly, it is the observation of the failure of the Union, that it has a bilateral follow-up commission with Development and that it has achieved nothing in that bilateral commission, which has only met once. And if that commission was used for something you didn't come here to bring a non-law proposition to achieve all these things, which should have been achieved a long time ago. And you also have one ass in your sleeve, which is not receiving the works from Rande Bridge, which only interest the concessionaire for profit, while not correcting all these negative impacts in the parish of Chapel, until the Plan Chapel is done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u67	...while the commitments are not met and until the new church school is held. That's the ones in the sleeve, the base they have to use from Fomento, from the Galician Union, from the Roundup Town Hall and the People's Party. That's the solution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u68	Thank you. Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Applause]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pazos. I would also like to greet the institutional representatives, the mayor of Roundella and the rest of the representatives of the neighbors. Mr. Paz, I wanted to remind you of a chronological issue that I think is relevant. You've been ruling for six years in Spain and eight years in Galicia. You spoke of the Trasmannó bridge, that it is going — literally — to begin construction. I, when I go around Santiago's circumference, I see how the bridges that had to be modified by the expansion of the roads are already built; they're also going to put on the scratched panels, which are not placed either. And by the way, in Chapel and Teis, the neighbors, already without 3 cars, are experiencing a level of noise above 50,000 vehicles every day that is really hard to bear. The Socialist Group will also vote in favour of this initiative. I, however, imagine that the point — it has not been positioned on the amendments — on the Trasmoñó bridge will accept it; it is already practically about to begin the construction. In any case... - Is it included? Ben.— We will therefore vote in favour, regardless of whether the amendments are accepted. I just want to remember the February 5, 2000 BOE, the Friday 10th clause. In 2000 he ruled the People's Party in Spain. In the BOE the decisions of the Spanish Government are essentially taken, and in clause 10th of the sixth sentence of: "It is established as the final date of the concession period on 18 August 2048." This period is what limits and essentially makes it difficult to negotiate with the concessionaire in terms both monetary and strict negotiation, because, undoubtedly, the hypothetical loss of profits is much greater when the concessionary deadlines are extended, and it gives the impression that it was of a magical-miracle character. And it wasn't. It was a political and economic decision of a People's Party government to expand the concession to the extent possible and then privatize it. And I know that the Government of Mr. Zapatero and the Government of Touriño were horrendous and that they made all kinds of damage compared to Round it up in a Jewish dungeon. But those who lengthened the deadline to the limit and those who sold AP-9 were the right, because if not, of course, we count here only a part of reality. I share with you that the payout of Roundola, in the context of the mobility of the urban area of Vigo, especially once the toll at the Morrazo has been abolished, is discriminatory and has no justification. I recognize it, I share it and I said it in public and in private. It is, in fact, so and we understand, in addition, that this would greatly facilitate mobility and the links between Vigo Town Hall and Roundla Town Hall. You've forgotten another important question, too. Indeed, geography does not help the parish of Chapel and the parish of Teis, in the sense that the level curves themselves or the slope towards the sea and the need for connections all of the north-south axis of the city of Vigo necessarily have to go through there. What were there things that probably could be done better by all governments? Sure. The change of Mr. Blanco's high-speed train project, the Maceiras tunnel, these eight kilometres of tunnel that allowed the high-speed train to cross Chapel and Teis was a significant milestone for the parish of Chapel. And that doesn't mean all the problems are solved, of course, but it was a fundamental advance; I said it yesterday and I say it now. Anyone who goes, unfortunately, to the Arcade, sees what a high-speed or high-speed line means through an urban helmet, which means in terms of cuts of mobility and rupture of what is an urban fabric. So I think we must recognize the work of governments and also recognize the mistakes that may have existed. As far as resources are concerned, you are continually talking about those 21 billion euros that Mr Blanco had and the 7 billion euros that the current Minister of the Serna has. Minister De la Serna has 7 billion because an important part had to withdraw it for the rescue of Madrid's radio highways, which we all know also who built them, who granted them, etc., and it wasn't a socialist government either, Mr Pazos. I'm sure you know, I'm sure you know that practically all were inaugurated simultaneously on the eve of the general elections of the year 2004 by Mr Aznar's Government. So I think there would be more than enough funds there to put those acoustic panels, which, without any doubt, are indispensable in Chapel and Teis. And by the way, not only in Chapel and Teis, but also in Cabral, in the branch that goes towards...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u71	...—Filled—atop Puxeiros, where there are also houses that are less than 50 metres from the motorway limit. I therefore insist that we support the initiative. We understand that the subject of lowering the line of affection — or, at least, that's what our neighbours move us — is possible to ask for it, because there are, in fact, many housings that are left there in a sort of legal limbo. And then there's another subject to which Mr Bará has already referred, the subject of the transfer of the Church School. I think it's a certain delay, because everyone knew there would be three lanes in the stretch of Rande Bridge and Peinador's fork — or not?— And so, if there are three roads in each direction, it means that we have to physically expand space and, therefore, the highway is going to catch up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u73	...clearly at school.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u75	It's good that they're going to do all this, and we're going to support them; but, I insist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u76	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u77	...six years of government in Spain and eight years of government in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u79	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. A greeting to the neighbours of Chapel and the representatives of the Town Hall who accompany us today in this debate. As some of the previous speakers have commented, this initiative comes very late, and we have already debated in this plenary and we have discussed in committee the situation of Chapel, the injustice and the aberration in which Chapel has been living for a few years, since the construction of the motorway itself. The People's Party has so far been voting against the initiatives we have brought about to change this situation, even voted against yesterday, as the BNG spokesman has already stated, on a purely partisan issue. It's funny that you come here to say that we today stand against partisan issues when you in April stood against a partisan issue, and, if not, now in your reply, go out here and explain why it was against the amendments that the Socialist Party presented in April, which are the amendments that you did not agree to vote against in April. If you have any reason, please explain it here now in your reply; if not, it will be shown that you voted against in a totally partisan manner. They bring today a number of measures which, of course, we will also support, because we want this to be solved, if it is solved at once, and to see if with a unanimous response from Parliament all these issues can be agitated; issues that have already been raised. As the spokespersons who preceded me have already been told, you've been in the Galician government for eight years, you've been in the state government for six years; you should study what they've been doing all these years so that all these issues are not resolved. You have so far been completely complicit with Development in your lack of action, fully complicit with Audasa. Still this weekend Mr. Puy, in an interview, said that Fomento was fantastically good with Galicia. It just as it's reducing investments, it's as if last year it's running only 40% of all budgets executed, it's equal to the situation in which infrastructures are in Galicia, the abandonment by the Development Party, which the People's Party of Galicia makes boy of the errands, makes voice and instead of making militants of Galicia, who remains very well in the speeches, are once again becoming militants of the People's Party, of militants of Audasa. They also have an important mess when presenting their proposals within the resolution: in one of them they urge Development, in others they urge Audasa directly, in others they urge the Council of Galicia to urge Development, in others they demand that they be formulated within the Joint Committee; which demonstrates the lack of consistency in drawing up their proposals. Some proposals which, as you have already said in the joint committee — which, by the way, have not met since February — were to advance on all these issues, because we understand that you were already preparing this whole post. We talked a little ago and I went deep at the popular party's conference with Audasa, a company that is earning 46 million euros net every year with public goods. You'll know what the counterbalances are and what the agreements you have with Audasa and how far that part goes to your box, how many of these 46 million go to the People's Party's Box B. And today he said that you can't be the solution to this problem, because you're part of this plot and you're part of this situation. You've provoked her and you'll know how they're benefiting from her, because we don't see any kind of belligerence against this real injustice. I told you yesterday that we're talking about the state highway with the greatest sinisterity, the most claims you have of the state, the fewer workers per mile you have, the longest concession you have, and all this seems fantastically good to you, while the company is stealing from the Greeks and the Greeks 46 million a year. But we should go deep into the model of highways by peas itself, which is a real anomaly and which has to be liquidating as soon as possible. We need an integrated road network, not a network of roads that are put to the service of private interest, for the private benefit of a part of them. It's a strategic issue. Infrastructure is a completely strategic issue and can't be used for a few business. So we also have to go deep into why the People's Party continues to be committed to doing these kinds of pathways; pathways that have only been done in the dictatorship, in frankism. In the last few years of franchiseism, the first avenues of toll have been pushed, and the second moment in which the tracks of toll have been pushed is with the Government of Aznar. For the rest of the time, many high-capacity pathways have been made, but without this model of fees; a model that primarily serves for the profit of the private business, against the interests of the citizenry. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u80	Thank you, Mr. Cal. I'm that expression... Mr. Cal, please, that expression of "That goes to box B of the People's Party" is considered a crime and therefore I ask you to remove it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u81	Well, I don't know if it's going to box A or B, but what's going on and what the state security bodies are saying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u82	Yes, but it's in a concrete debate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u83	...we suspect you might go to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u84	But you're in a concrete debate and a concrete company, and that's a matter that's a crime. So I'm asking you to pull him out.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u85	I'm not taking it off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u86	Aren't you gonna take it off? I'll call you in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u87	All right. [[Applause]] People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Don't worry, we're already used to the permanent defamation Mr. Cal puts us under. It's not the first, nor will it be the last. By the way, one thing should be clarified. If we fund ourselves through Itinere, it's curious, because it must be that now the former general secretaries of the socialist governments that President Itinere are the ones that finance the People's Party. It's a curious thing. What happens is that, of course, you can't attack socialists because, if you don't, they might be taken away by some government from those municipalities that are worth funding for the undersigned. [[Applause]] Anyway, look, Mr Bará, you come here today bragging about the Plan Chapel, which is your invention to wipe your face out in front of your continuing incompliments, and for that you despise the Plan of Work of Chapel, which is what is presented here today and which — I want you to know — is the fruit of negotiation with the neighbors, those neighbors. Those who have obtained those compensations are those gentlemen who are up there, and not you, who come here now inventing a supposed Plan Chapel which arose one afternoon when you would have a gap between Sudoku and Sudoku. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago marks with his hand towards the guest gallery.]] By the way, neighbors to whom his government, the Government of Roundup, bipartisan, refused to receive. [[Murmurs.]] It's just that you didn't vote for them, and now you're here saying you care about the neighbors of Chapel! They didn't receive them, Mr. Bará, that they didn't find out! And look, the socialist amendments. They asked me to explain why we didn't accept the socialist amendments to that BNG proposal that we wanted to vote and you didn't let us, because, look, they assumed that the same ones who caused the problems in Chapel, the same ones who attacked her, the same ones who humiliated her, had now come to put the medals for the successes achieved, by those neighbors who are there and by the municipal government, who was the only one who accompanied them. You have to have some memory or some shame, and it's clear that one of these two virtues doesn't enlighten you, I don't know which one. [[Applause]] You're talking about the failure of the Roundup Government. The lands of Ginaria, paid by Audasa. His government wanted to pay two million of the municipal archives for that, and he paid us Audasa, free land to round it up. The school, which concerns them so much — college, by the way, in which they were condemned to follow the students forever because you gave them the same school — turns out that Audasa is going to do it, paid entirely by Audasa. The lanes, which now worry them so much and that you didn't contemplate any, now it turns out that you're making them Audasa. The scratched screens, which were not contemplated, will put them on Audasa. The special anti-fraud firm, which is already in place and you haven't negotiated, has put it in Audasa. The security, which concerns them so much, at school is already taken through containment walls that Audasa made. Was this a failure? So what did you guys do? Yours? Current government, seven million compensation; two-party government of Roundla, zero. How dare you come here to talk about failure? And now they're proposing to us illegality: that we don't receive the works. The works are received in accordance with the terms which are explained in the decree signed by Mr. Blanco. There's reading, Mr. Bará. Look, of course it expanded until 2048 the grant of the bus, say why, why was it, because it was so financed the Ferrol-Fene tranche and the Vigo-Tui plot, which had to build and pay entirely Audasa. Why don't you count that, sir? And since you recognize discrimination, I asked you a simple question: why, if you recognize discrimination at the beach of Chapela, when they removed the toll of the Vigo-Lower, they kept exclusively this condemnation for the neighbors of Roundla? Because we've been waiting for an explanation for eleven years, and you don't give it to us. We don't know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u89	The amendments, please, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u90	The amendments cannot be accepted by a matter of justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u91	Yeah, thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u92	I cannot give Mr Bará a treatment other than that which Mr Bará has given us, because it would be to underestimate his posture.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u94	And finally -- and I'm done --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u96	...I would ask is a bit of rigour, including you, Mr. Cal. We must respect the work of the people, including that of the neighbors. You read the proposal, which I repeat again, it must be read: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union..." And from there, everything else. We only urge Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u98	You read it, that you read healing many of the ignorance that we're then seeing in this gallery.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u99	Thank you. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members, on the request by the Government of Greece to the Ferroatlantica-Ferroglobe group of maintenance in Galicia of all investments and jobs derived from the manufacture of solar silicon, as well as the realization of the actions necessary to promote development in the autonomous community of the entire production cycle
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u100	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u101	Please! It's just a greeting, I didn't do any gesture of approval or reprobation. Mrs. Presas, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u102	I'll cable you, Mr. Santalices. I also begin by greeting the workers who accompany us to listen to this initiative today. [[Applause]] Focusing on the subject, ladies and gentlemen, today the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group brings the debate in this House a matter which is of vital importance to us. We're talking about a situation of uncertainty caused by the risk of relocation of industrial production in our country, the threat of Ferroatlantica-Ferroglobe to take out of Galicia the transformation of the solar silicon that is developing today in the Soapon polygon in Artexo. So we're talking about jobs, we're talking about investment, we're talking about industry, but we're also talking about a strategic issue: the model of economic development and exploitation of natural resources that we want for our country and whether or not as Parliament we're going to be up to the circumstances and defend a position of country so that our resources are exploited for the benefit of our society or if, on the other hand, we're going to resign ourselves to dump the country into a predatory and unregulated model in which political power is not involved in preventing our wealth being swept away in exchange for nothing or the exchange of very little. We, of course, from the nationalist group, have made it clear. Today, the nationalists and also the workers who accompany us—who we thank greatly for their mobilising effort and if they have moved here—wait for the parliamentary groups that we are able to send a message of unity out; a joint position, because every time a company wants to leave our country, that should be the attitude, and even more so in this case, when we don't speak of any company or any circumstance. In the case that we bring to this House today to put it on the table, it is true that we have a clear risk, but it is no less certain that we have so many strengths that can make this not happen. I'll explain why. We're talking about an industrial sector that is pointer and future, which is pointer and future in a fundamental part precisely by raw matter. Starting with this question, ladies and gentlemen, one of the many mines in our country is known as the Serrabal Mine, located between Vedra and Boqueixón, a few miles from this Parliament. One of many, but it must also be said that no one. It's one of the most important, not only of Galicia or the Peninsula, but of all Europe. Through the natural resources that are exploited in this mine it obtains a quartz of the highest quality of silicon of highly valued solar grade. The mining concession was already obtained in 1978 by rocks, clays and minerals and is currently being exploited by the Ferroatlantic Group since 2000. From the hands of the company known popularly as Silicio Ferrosolar, the material is transformed into a powder of high quality silicon, with a purity close to 100 percent, which places Galicia and this company worldwide in a position of genuine vanguard. You get the best quality of the product, favoring that its use is complete; therefore, because of this exceptionality, we can dare to assert without any kind of blush that this material is the jewel of the crown for this company. It comes to profitability, it comes to added value and, most importantly, it also comes to an important perspective for the future, because photovoltaic energy, despite all the efforts of the Spanish State and the Central Government to put a burden on it, is called to have an immediate future in the present and in the long and medium term that is inevitable. It is inevitable that we have to walk towards an energy transition, it is inevitable that we have to walk towards progressive decarbonization and, therefore, it is inevitable that photovoltaics have become more and more prominent, even though we may have to go towards a change in regulatory model in matters such as self-consumption. So without going further into this question, I want to highlight, on behalf of the BNG, that the starting point is qualitatively important because we have exceptional material and we must therefore claim that our materials are not extracted in exchange for a small price. So since the BNG we think that if the impact is on Galicia, an impact that, as you will see, with the mining industry is not smaller at the economic level, at the environmental level and at the social level, we have to claim and have all those tools in hand for that impact to translate into a benefit in our country. So you've noticed that it's such an exceptional material that even with the energy spent on an electrical industry like this -- that besides, the chance that we're in a push week, that nonsense that is interruptability, and yet, with a company like this, that in a 40% depends on your electrical bill of the result of that auction -- yet, it's much more profitable for this company to pay that high amount of electricity in the Soap polygon for more than ten years than to take production to other points in Europe where this technology is also used, like, for example, France itself, to where the excesses that I'm not able to absorb here derive from. And this is not because of Mr. Villar Mir's altruism or because he's suddenly a benefactor of the Soap Polygon, but because he continues to be highly competitive and beneficial. However, despite the circumstances, as you will already know, as stated in the initiative, as has already been confirmed by the workers and workers and as it has already been collected by the local and national press, the company intends to relocate the production, the transformation of this material, to more than 800 kilometres from our country; a decision that we understand is contrary to the interests of Galicia, in which we would simply remain with the hole from which this extraordinary material is extracted, but we would not have the added value, we would not have the jobs and we would not have a position of the sector at the international level, which is contrary — we must say — to all economic logic. Let's just think of the example I said about electricity: from staying in our country to power production, the cost would go to factory, and, if you go to Puertollano, you'd have to go to the pool that touches every time. It is also obvious that the logical shift of such a heavy material has an important cost in fuel and so on, and it also opens up an incognito in what to do with those wastes that are left after the transformation process. As I say, these two issues in all light are increasing operational costs and must be a disincentive factor, a portolan handicap, but also an opportunity for us to focus on the positive issues our country has, not only to maintain the current production, but also to claim that the entire department of R & D+i has been dismantled in recent years. We are concerned in this context not only about the company's intentions, but also about the absolutely passive attitude that the Galician Union is having. This is not surprising. Already on July 28 of this same year Mr. Pedro Larrea, in an interview at La Voz de Galicia, after the Galician Waters two days before he had confirmed that he was not in favour of the segregation and sale of the Xallas River power stations, this gentleman already said he was at the point of view of the silicon project. Weeks later, on November 7, we saw as Mr. President of Castile-A Mancha — García Page — as a participant, an announcement of more than 70 million investments and 150 jobs in Puertollano, which would be related to the reduction in our country as well. It's the end of the year, and since the BNG we think it's time for the Galician Union to work seriously on this matter, and to do so with Parliament's backing, and even more because Mr. Feijóo has already been given the ability to do this. You will remember — because all the Members and Members we were here were on an election campaign — that as early as September 2016, when the company announced an investment for Soapón, Mr Feijóo took part in this merit, and I will literally quote some of his statements of September 20, 2016, which we hope will continue to defend — Mr Feijóo — and therefore all groups, also the majority, will vote in favour of this initiative. Mr. Feijóo said, "We were afraid they would dislocate Soapón, but we made them see that Europe's most important silicon deposits are here and we would understand with difficulty that they would take him to Puertollano." A year later, and waiting, as I say, for this to be the same position, we bring this initiative here. We understand that it is urgent to place Parliament also with a unified position in this debate: firstly, in defence of everyone and each one of the jobs involved in this issue. Secondly, because, taking advantage of a key element in this debate, which is the raw material, let us be able to put it in value and demand that this wealth have a return to the country. Thirdly, because of a question which I have added and which is not smaller: throughout all these years, this company has benefited from economic support from various institutions, the Galician Union, the Spanish State, including European funds such as the programmes included in the ERDF. And also, it has to be stressed that it has an important knowledge capital which is intangible, difficult to measure economically, but which is important too, because throughout all these years these projects, this company, have been collaborating with our research and university tissue. So, since the BNG, since the German nationalism, we believe in an industrial model in which I try...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u104	...has a return to Galicia -- and I'm going to finish now, Mr President -- especially when we talk about compensating the impact of a sector as aggressive as the miner, than 82% of its benefits emigrate outside our country, because we believe that, in front of that model that leads us to neocolonialism, we are able to take advantage of this occasion, not only to demand the maintenance of these jobs, but also to demand that the entire productive cycle closes in our country, so that we can also have added value in our country, that added value that generates quality jobs and places Galicia in the sector not only on a state level, but also on an international level. So it's a matter of country, also of dignity, and not just of jobs, and we pray that all parliamentary groups will give us their support today to give a unanimous message to the outside and to this company. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin by greeting the workers of Ferroglobe. As in the previous speech on Roundla, you spoke without any problem from the Presidency of "Depeñaperos Corporation" and then you couldn't talk about box B, the advantage of speaking about OHL is that if you can talk about box B. I suppose you're inside the subject. [[Applause]] It is within that theme of the papers of Bárcenas, in which OHL money was delivered, specifically EUR 300,000 in an election campaign, for the "Mountain of Gas" — that they didn't even have the geographic theme, well aqualated — in the 2005 autonomics. These are the advantages that Mr. Villar Mir had shared with Mr. Fraga Iribarne, who has always, therefore, intimidated, in the sense of intimacy. Actually, this is a prototype company of predatory companies. I remember perfectly well when Mr. Álvarez Helmets Mr. Villar Mir asked him for 900 million euros for the Serrabal mine, as a result of AVE crossing the mine, and fortunately for the public finances of this country, in 2004 the Socialist Government arrived and these 900 million euros remained in 70. Totally, nothing, from 900 to 70! I am sure that — it is a counterfactual, it is true — if the People's Party continued to rule in 2004, Mr. Villar Mir would have taken away, I don't know if in B, C or D, 900 million euros. This is the general framework of the business policy of this company and some others, at last, that appear on those papers, where they also put "M. Rajoy" and nobody knows who it is. It's the methodological context in which we move. I, although the Socialist Group is going to vote in favour of this initiative, it is true that I probably do not agree with some methodological approach to the BNG spokesman who defended the initiative, because also, in the same way that I radically censure these corporate policies of sprawling and illegal linkage with political power, I understand that business decisions are business decisions. But it is true that this business decision is clearly linked to blackmail. It was Serrabal at one time, and now it's the Xallas hydroelectric power stations, and it has a lot to do with, without any doubt, the non-existent industrial policy -- not to say bad -- of the People's Party. Because we are meeting with this government, this government paradigm of industry 4.0 — let's remember — I also remember the first time we spoke about it in this Parliament. I, well, humbly told Mr. Economy and Industry that probably the innovation ecosystem needed to develop these types of industries was another one, that talking about industry 4.0 with 0.87% of GDP in R & D+i was a bit adventurous, as it says in soft language. And he also said it was something that was practically in the technological vanguard that developed companies like Siemens in Germany and that undoubtedly and sadly this country could not compete. The other day, there was information from Siemens himself, who had increased his investment in R & D+i by 40% — private investment — since 2014, but at the same time Germany's public investment nearly quadrupled in terms of GDP, that of Galicia. Therefore, it is in this context where we clearly move; a context — I repeat — in which both physical capital allocations — are called industrial land, called energy supply, called information and communication technology coverage, financial capital issues with the absolutely inoperative role of Igape and the bank's own credit difficulties, which it is true that they have money for zero interest, but that they are using it to clear their balances and therefore do not transfer it to productive fabric — as in terms of human capital — and we can talk about research, innovation, transfer and technology, or FP, or dual FP — all in the end, forms a package of lack of public support, political support, industrial activity. And in view of that, we have other autonomous communities, almost all of them not governed by the People's Party; we have the case of Euskadi, which has an industrial agenda since 2015, ended in 2015, and we have the case of Castela-A Mancha, which is developing and developing, with economic and social agents, with the University of Castela-A Mancha itself, an own industrial agenda and a development strategy that undoubtedly favours the location of companies in its territory. And we continue to compete, rather than with real facts, with strategic plans, that systematically fail...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u108	...we continued to compete with press rounds of the Industry Councillor by all sectors of the autonomous community talking about the future of industry 4.0, and in the meantime we clearly lost industrial potential in this sector and in many other sectors. What the Galician Union has to do is do really proactive industrial policy, and what the People's Party has to do is close its box B.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u109	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u110	Good morning to all and to all. As Mrs Presas, Mrs BNG, said, we are faced with a decision that can be catastrophic for the future of the development of one of the world's largest industries, and of course in Spain and Galicia. We are faced with a truly incomprehensible decision by Ferroglobe not to develop Ferrosolar in Soap. The raw material is extracted into Galicia, a first transformation is made into Soap, and without taking advantage of existing installations in Soap and a highly qualified staff box in this technology, since R & D has developed there, the final development of the product will be carried out, the most value added and jobs generated, towards Portllano. It can only be understood — it is the only way of understanding this disincentive — as revenge against the Greeks and the Greeks permitted by a government that puts itself on a profile. It is also evident that the attempt to extortion of Ferroatlantics, by conditioning its investments to the necessary — according to them — funding from the sale of the Xallas power plants, was only that, an extortion. Now, after the workers and the citizenship of the Death Coast have prevented the sale of power stations, they compromise a investment in Puertollano of between 70 and 100 million euros, which will initially create about 300 jobs between fixed and variable, for the manufacture of metal silicon in dust and which, in a second phase, could create another 500 jobs for the manufacture of photovoltaic oils. It seems that there was no need for the sale of power stations to have these 70 million or 100 million euros, as they said here that they were essential in order to develop the economic plan. If we had a strong government, which had really defended Galician interests, those 800 jobs would come to Galicia, in addition to the risk that the current installations of Silicio Ferrosolar in Sabón would definitely be closed, with the loss of the current 40 jobs. Really, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, who's favoring the closure of industries in Galicia, something they're always pulling out here on this stage? The solar silicon has three essential inputs for its manufacture: quartz of maximum purity, which Ferroglible extracts from the four mines it has licensed in Galicia: Serrabal — the most important in Europe—; Esmeralda, in Trazo; Sonia, in Manion; and Conchitina, in the Vice-President. Very intensive electrical energy, which in turn produces Ferroglible on the Coast of Death. And finally technology, which was developed very successfully in Sabón, with public contributions from the Galician Union and the Central Government, and tax reliefs by more than 50% of the total investment there in R & D. On the other hand, Ferrosolar obtained in 2016 the third part of the credits that the Central Government granted Galicia for industrial development, in particular, EUR 27 million, and in very advantageous conditions for installing the solar silicon factory in Sabon. Thus profusely sold by Mr Feijóo in the electoral campaign of the past autonomous elections. And now these 27 million euros for the Greek industry seems to be going to Puertollano. Will you allow, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Party? In short, Ferroglobe extracts the raw material by concessions from Galicia's board, produces energy by concessions from Galicia's board, develops technology with help from Galicia's board and finances the project with money for Galicia. However, are we told that there is nothing we can do to make Ferrosolar and his future developments remain in Soapon? For it would be necessary to tell Mr. Conde and Mr. Feijóo to meet with Mr. López Madrid and Mr. Villar Mir and to remind them — yes, very kindly — that many of their interests depend on the Council of Galicia and on the popular sovereignty of the Greeks and the Greeks to decide on our natural resources, and to make them, please, an offer that they cannot refuse; that is yes, within the law, of course. That would be what a strong government would do that really defends Galicia's interests. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they do not allow the closure of solar silicon in Sabón and the loss of this huge opportunity for Galicia in one of the world's most developed technologies in the short and medium term, such as photovoltaic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u111	Thank you, Mr. Casal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mr. Casal, you were an entrepreneur until recently! And you, besides receiving subsidies from certain public administrations, did you do what those administrations told you to do? Did it work like that? Was he making the films that the administrations sent him? Of course, that's why you shut the producer down. That's why. Mr. Casal, I tell you honestly, look, you can't come to this gallery and speak out loudly as a broken lamb, falsely concerned by employment, when they come to this Parliament repeatedly to ask for the closure of businesses. We hear the Tides of We can ask you to close Reganosa, to ask you to close Ence and Elnosa, to close the thermal of the bridges, to close the Soap, to say no to the expansion of Citroën, in Vigo, and to stand against the aeronautical pole of Rozas. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Those are the Tides of Podemos. You are against employment and are an absolute problem for our country's employment. We're talking about possible relocations of companies. Look, we have brought to this House the Business Implementation Act, which aims to fight against the relocation of companies. What did you guys do? To vote against, because you're against everything, and you're opposed to the Council of Galicia and opposed to the whole Galicia, because you're against it permanently. That's the reality. Mr. Losada, I didn't know that you had also become a judge, but what I'm telling you is that, man! that the PSOE also speaks of predatory companies is a mimetism, a sort of imitation, a socialism with a complex of inferiority, in view of the speech on the radical left. And you have become the apostle of that new complex socialism that they represent these days. And, look, don't talk to us this week about corruption or alleged corruption because we'll have to remind you that in the newspapers what comes out this week is the trial and that two former socialist presidents of the Board of Andalusia: Grignan and Keys sit on the bench. Do you know what they're accused of? From cheating nearly EUR 1 billion from the EREs of Andalusia, which were destined for employment, and they diverted us to issues you well know. So, hey, you're a theoretician, but the truth is, then, when you have the opportunity to rule, I'm a real disincentive. Look, I'm telling you that I thought neither the BNG nor any opposition group would dare bring back any related issues, not even remotely, with Ferroatlantics. The opposition in general, and very specifically the BNG, had an action in the last year of which he should not feel anything proud, Mrs. Presas. You lied without any kind of smell, trying to raise shadows of doubt permanently about the action of the Galician Union and trying to insinuate supposed dark interests. You tried to jump into parliamentary consensus. They brought initiatives to debate what was already discussed, they brought initiatives to vote what was already voted on, they brought initiatives to this House to agree on what was already agreed. With only one purpose, try to tension the street on the Death Coast and try to stir the fear of the neighbors. That's what you did; immoral, unworthy, lamentable. Look, you said and repeated that the Board did not give any information even after all the mayors in the area — almost all of their respective parties, by the way — said that they were satisfied with the explanations they received from the Government. That's the reality. Look, the lie has very short legs, and when politics is done based on the continued lie, time makes the faces fall and the truth grows. It was a lie that the Board would facilitate the sale of power stations by skipping legality, and it ended up knowing. It was a lie that Vigo's hospital was small and private, as Mr. Losada said. And it was probably a lie that he was charged for consultations, that he was charged to discharge the doctors and that he was charged with using those sofas from the rooms of the hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro. It was all a lie. You don't have any credibility because you can't have it and live in a permanent lie. And what is the truth about the question of Ferroatlantics, Mrs. Presas? For the truth is that the Union was the first to defend the Comarcas of the Coruña and the Costa da Morte, and the workers of Ferroatlantica, both in Sabon and in Cee and Dumbria. Together was the first to give timely and true information to public opinion, citizenship, trade unions and mayors. And Junta was the first to say that there was a need to respect legality and what the legal reports said and that therefore there was no arbitraryness. On the request for segregation, look, it always acted under the principle of legality, and so it proved. Look, I have the feeling that there is a permanent theme of the Galician Nationalist Block against certain companies; it shows them daily. The speech of the policeman and the colony I have to tell them to smell the ransom. They defend direct, absolute, radical interventionism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u114	...an interventionism that swirls with the model of the vertical union — I have to tell you — Of course we urge Ferroatlantica and Ferroglobe to invest in Galicia. Of course, we want them to close the production cycle here in Galicia, but it's obvious that the decision corresponds to the company. And I don't think BNG's attitude helps no company bet on Galicia, I tell it sincerely. The current policy is to attract companies and to encourage their implementation in our community, and you are constantly trying to frighten Galician companies, to put fear into their bodies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u116	We're going to support your initiative, knowing that ultimately the decision-maker is the company. Unless this is a Bolivarian republic — which is a little the model you're defending — and which, therefore, you could impose on the company what you have to do, which is the model that you like so much...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u118	...to Mr. Casal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u119	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u120	As always, Mr. Tellado throwing balloons out. I missed that reference to the scene I've already taken a bit of attachment to. In any case, going in parts, of course, we refuse — and we will again comment on it again — that Law of implementation. And, of course, if that's his model, that predator model, before what they didn't intend to do too much in front of this issue, because it's not ours. Going around, about the question you're talking about Ferroatlantic, he says we're lying, etc. Look, you've released so much infamy here, that it would take me two hours to lie. But to begin with, the first ones who brought here at the first ordinary plenary session of this legislation — if I do not remember correctly — an initiative to reverse, to manipulate the agreement already made by this German Parliament, Mr Tellado. It was you! [[Applause]] I may be wrong in the day, but it was you. Home!, it was my first intervention in this plenary, I remind you perfectly. [[Applause]] Finally, in this question of Ferroatlantics, what happened in this country is that it is a rebellious country, that it is a strong country and that popular mobilization, the mobilization of workers and workers and the mobilization of entire communities has succeeded in not selling these power stations. And we can take advantage of two lessons from that: first, that the analysis that we did from Greek nationalism was the right one, was a balloon probe that industrial plan; and to show, a button. So necessary was to make investments that industrial plan, so bad would go to the company without it that in the end the plants did not sell themselves and there was nothing just bought two new companies Mr. Villar Mir; two new factories in France and Norway, and went up even in the bag of evil that would go to him. And the result, in the end — and I take it, Mr Tellado — is that this gentleman is almost as musketed with Greek nationalism as he is with Galician Union. Some common point of analysis should be seen on this issue. So what we're considering here is that there are common actions towards the future with this issue as well. Interventionism? We'd like to have a little more in this country, yes. Indeed, we do not object to the freedom of enterprise, or much less, but it is that between having a little country ambition and bet on the design of the economic model and the law of the jungle there is a medium term. [[Applause]] Corporate freedom, yes, but the cow for what it's worth, and Serrabal's cow — the silicon cow — is worth enough, worth a few sacred cows. And therefore, it deserves that Mr. Feijóo — who I suppose you were not saying, Mr. Tellado, who is a radical communist — of what I read in a literary statement in this House, will continue to agree to dialogue from the Galician Council with the company and to move it that it does not seem good to us that silicon should go to Puertollano. [[Applause]] I am therefore glad that, despite your intervention, you have voted in favour of this initiative. I'm saying that, Mr. Puy. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You don't have to keep shouting. I'm already saying that we thank them for voting in favour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u121	Quiet. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u122	I just said it five times! Likewise, if instead of talking to Mr. Puy... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u123	Quiet, please. Don't go in there, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u124	...he had listened to me a little...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u125	That's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u126	Well, let's thank him for voting in favour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u127	Finish. You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u128	...this initiative. Of course, we will be vigilant that they actually exercise that political power, that they actually report, because on this issue we would also like this parliamentary group to finally reply to Article 9 and that we also have a copy of the granting of these mines.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u130	We also like — and with this end, Mr President, you will understand that I have been interrupted repeatedly —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u131	A little time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u132	...that they do not make the strategy of the ostrich and that in this matter they walk with the forces of opposition so that that that production does not go out of our country. And we also expect you to have a dialogue with workers and workers, because Mr. Conde — who is not present — has been having a bad day for several weeks now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u134	...on the table of his office...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u136	...a request...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u138	...that hasn't answered yet. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members, on the impulse for the Galician Union of measures to equip the public buildings with bathrooms adapted for ostomized patients
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u140	Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group have been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u141	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u142	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with a very special greeting to the people of the associations of patients who accompany us today in the gallery. Ostominia is a term that comes from the Greek stomach, which means mouth; although the term orifice is also accepted. Speaking in medical terms, it's functionally the result of an operation in which artificial communication between two organs or between a viscera and the abdominal wall is formed, facilitating the release of organic waste substances. This surgical derivation may have a temporal or definitive character, depending on the etiology and evolution of the disease by which ostomy occurs. Its purpose may be for various causes: elimination of faeces or urine for nutrition through food and liquid administration, or for oxygenation functions, facilitating the preservation of respiratory function. According to the anatomical zone, we can talk about tracheostomy, or trachea derivation, which usually has a temporal character; laryngotomy, when the derivation is from the larinx, and also tends to have a temporal character; enterotomy or ostomy, which affects the small intestine or thick; and urostomy, which is a procedure that excludes some portion of the urinary tract. It can also be a nephrostomy, which communicates the kidney through a puncture. Today we're going to talk specifically about digestive ostomy. An ostomy, a stomach, is a surgical opening that is made on the skin to allow the products of defect to come out of the intestines. If the surgery is from the part of the island, we talk about isostomy, and if it is from the colon, colostomy. Ostomy is a technique that communicates the intestine through the abdominal wall to the outside by means of a collection device or bag called a digestive ostomy device. Ostominia facilitates the evacuation of intestinal contents when this, for medical reasons secondary to disease or trauma, cannot be done by the usual route. There are more than 700,000 ostomized patients in Spain, and in our autonomous community there are about 5,000. And each year around 15,000 new cases are generated, according to data from the Spanish Nursing Society, an expert in stomatherapy. It's estimated that in the world there are about two million ostomized people, and adapting to life with a poscurgery stomach is a challenge for all these people. In most cases this is preceded by a state of previous shock, since almost always the disease that precedes it is generally serious, whether oncological etiology or inflammatory etiology. The diagnosis and prognosis of the disease that required surgery are critical factors that determine the psychological effects of ostomy. A patient with a long history of bowel inflammatory disease will have a different reaction to ostomy surgery compared to a patient recently diagnosed with cancer and has to immediately receive an unexpected ostomy. It takes time to adapt to living with a bag attached to the abdomen. The support of the patient's stomach therapist and specialized staff who are next to the patient by explaining thoroughly and in detail all care, and a practical guide on how to change the ostomy bag and peristomal skin care are fundamental in all these cases. The stomach has a strong emotional impact on the patient because it has an impact on his personal image, on working life, social life, family life, and on the patient's own functional capacity. This is why it is essential to provide continuous attention on the part of the various professionals, so that patients can strengthen their space in society and strengthen training and information between professionals, caregivers and patients. In recent years, research on ostomy aims to find solutions to make life easier and more pleasant for ostomized patients, with products that are discreet, comfortable and offer security and, at the same time, easy to use in their daily lives. Associations of patients such as the Intestinal Inflammatory Education Association and the Association of Crohn’s and Ulcerous Colleges of Galicia brought their concerns and needs to our health authorities, and, as a result of this collaboration, Galicia was the first autonomous community to make available to these patients adapted bathrooms that respond to what they need in order to empty their bags without complications, safely and with hyxine. The Montecelo Hospital in Pontevedra has been counting since February this year with the first toilet adapted to these patients, and currently also has a second toilet of these characteristics. This project was driven by the Galego Health Service, and its prototype was designed by the maintenance staff of the University Hospital Complex of Pontevedra. And also the Intestinal Inflammatory Education Association has played a decisive role in this case, making a contribution so that the model of care is best adapted to the needs of these patients. Progressively, these adapted toilets were incorporated into the various Greek hospitals. In June, the second adapted toilet in the CHUO was installed in Ourense, and in recent months other hospitals in our community have been added. Aware of the importance that for the health and well-being of these people can have an initiative like this, and convinced of its viability, the Popular Parliamentary Group presents this proposal not as a full law; "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to provide progressively adapted shelters for ostomized patients in all buildings of the Galician Union, and that since the Galician Autonomous Government it is encouraged that the rest of infrastructure, both public and private, can be provided such bathrooms. And ask the Government of Spain to carry out the policy actions to incorporate the technical code of construction into the obligation to provide public buildings with bathrooms adapted for these patients." Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. We've come here to debate an initiative that has an interesting component in its proposal, but it's true that we've been surprised again by the initiatives that the PP brings to this plenary. It seems that they use a pseudo-stochastic process of selecting themes, because it could suggest that some of the themes that are, curiously speaking, are themes that are already being started, that are already being done. On October 4, Health will install ostomized-friendly toilets in all areas, which is a good decision, to us it looks like a good initiative. What we wonder about is how health can be announced at the end of September, first of October, and you register an initiative at the end of November asking for it to start. Either they have no information from the Council, or they simply register initiatives a little late, they have a slow administrative process. So if they're announced in October and you're recording them a month and a half later, it certainly seems interesting that it's going on in that month and a half. Maybe it's like we're good as a group and you're not all right and they're arguing whether they wanted to support it or not. But in any case it's a good initiative. On the ideas that are being provided, we've proposed some amendment because we believe that it can be completed and that it can be enriched, and what we're proposing is basically three things. First of all, since the idea is to request that buildings of administrative ownership be able to incorporate this measure, which seems to be a good idea, we also consider that it extends to buildings of state ownership. Let us say, in order to complete, that we ask the Government of Spain to do so too, because, if it is a good measure, we can ask the Government of Spain to do so in those buildings that are obviously in Galicia so that they can consider it. I don't know if you've seen the last questions about the European Medicines Agency, that you're still saying you're asking -- I remind you that you haven't recognized that they haven't asked for it yet -- or the Bivalve Laboratory, which I remember you haven't found out that you haven't asked for it yet, and all these things, I don't know if someone took their phone in the government. The AP-9 and these things, at last, we're going to put him away. But if someone answers them, they can ask for this. Maybe they don't want to vote on this point because they'd have to do something that gives you the feeling it costs, which is to talk to the Government of Spain, that government friend; sometimes, to have friends like that, it's better to have enemies. In any case, that's one of the first proposals of the amendment. Let's plant a second point, this is quite dangerous. It's that tendency of our pseudo-masochist to ask for data. A report, to us it seems very interesting to measure, and we think it's a collective that with this measure you can see more attentive, more recognized in a certain sense. So we believe that, since we have this possibility, we can expand the measures that can be done and report on the etiology of cases, about their distribution, to know whether there can actually be even some asymmetric distribution on issues, about people affected, and might even step up — as some experts say — to analyze why certain types of cases occur more commonly in all places. I'm going to ask you, they always told me that the strategies don't count. I'll tell you a secret. I know you handle this data. What we have raised is something as revolutionary as it is that all political groups have the same data. I know this can be almost maoistic, philo-communist, trostskyist, but... information basically. That's the point if you think it's important. And thirdly, we put forward deadlines. We believe that, since they have initiated this measure, it will obviously be considered budgetaryly, they will have some measure to pay for these interventions and we believe that this is positive. But no deadlines are mentioned anywhere, so what we consider important is to introduce a matter of deadlines in this measure. I mean, give a prudential time so they can get on. These things have their time. But since they started it, they can reinforce it to continue throughout 2018, and let's make the year 2018 the deadline; there are twelve months ahead and it could be a good idea. We have that desire for support, but we consider these initiatives to be important. Above all, because commitments without budgets and without deadlines are offered to the sun, and there are issues on which it is important not to make toasts to the sun. If you consider these amendments, it will be nice to be able to support this initiative, which, I insist, we consider good, of the Council. We considered it a little weaker by the People's Group, because they presented it month and half later and have those deficits. I encourage them to present the initiatives to -- they know -- control and push the action of the Government; but to push means that before they start, they have to push them, not later, when they're already there, because one's going to push and it turns out that the Council sometimes goes ahead. So, if you can consider improving that procedure, surely much better, and we thank you for the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u145	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u146	Thank you, President. In fact, 5,000 or about 5,000 Greek patients live with ostomy in our country, and if knowledge and education in relation to necessary care it is true that they have increased, essentially by nursing, and if they have improved, it is true that it involves a series of adaptations in daily life for these people, as you have moved here by the rapporteur. It is clear that it is a difficulty outside the house, in public and also private buildings, emptying the bags or moving them into an ordinary bathroom, where often, in addition, there is difficulty, or length of a specific water point or place where excretions are deposited hygienicly. Who's going to be against—is it moved by the PSdeG spokesman now as well—that they provide the public bathroom buildings that are adapted? It's really not a conflicting element. However, allow me to transfer it to you that, as in other times, it seems more like a title measure than a real commitment measure. As already mentioned here, these patient associations have long moved this circumstance to the Health Council, the reality, the difficulties they have in daily life, and they have asked precisely whether to study the placement or possible placement of adapted bathrooms. And, precisely, as you just moved here, it was in the autumn month when the Health Council announced it; therefore, this initiative comes later to this Parliament. It is true that today you extend it to other public buildings, however — and I quote from the text — the initiative talks about progressively equipping them, and sets as an example the case of Montecelo, where there are two; two toilets have been installed throughout the hospital. Well, it's better than nothing, obviously there wasn't formerly any adapted toilet, and, in fact, you don't -- you could have done it -- which was also opened in Ourense, which the Health Council used to promote this measure. But if renewal has to be progressive and will need a series of resources, you don't set any sort of periodicity in the initiative, nor are they the minimums for its compliance, nor what data will be based on to select where they will be implanted. I mean, it's really an initiative that says nothing but what the Health Council has already said at the time. So there is no guarantee either that this proposal is not a mere announcement in a plenary to transfer a headline and that it materializes in a way that is effective and truly satisfactory for these people. This makes us have to remind them of a shameful reality — so we present an amendment — in the Galician Health Service. Because not only are there no bathrooms adapted for ostomized people, is that there are no bathrooms adapted for many other people or there are no bathrooms in some of the facilities of the Galician Health Service. We have health centres — we have put it on many occasions to debate in the Health Committee — without bathrooms adapted on some plants. Some people don't fit their wheelchairs, and therefore they're inaccessible to people with reduced mobility and moving in wheelchairs; others are on a floor where there's no elevator and therefore there's architectural barriers within their own health centers. We are perpetually discussing this circumstance in the Health Commission without practically taking any kind of measure — or it is very scarce or very timely — in a health centre, when health centres, which have a fairly important age, over three decades, many have important architectural barriers. Of course, one thing is talking and another doing. That's why we also tabled the amendment. But we also have another circumstance, and we have moved it on many occasions to parliamentary debate and even in the budgetary debate. At Ferrol Hospital we have five floors on which there is not even a bathroom in the rooms, without any kind of bathroom, and even in those rooms there are isolations. I recently visited the Oza Hospital, in this case the mental health unit, and there are rooms where there are no bathrooms in them either, Mrs. Friend. We have reiterated this need, and, frankly, with 700,000 euros for the primary care of the entire Galician Health Service for works, you will hardly take any measure in this direction. And three-quarters of the same thing happens to hospitals, where we saw a budget debate that the amendments were rejected. For example, in the case of Ferrol, the game that exists is totally insufficient, we've been waiting for years and there are five floors without bathrooms in the rooms. Therefore, works are love, lordships, and to us, of course, not being against, I would miss it more!, that the bathrooms adapted for the ostomized people are placed, we think that this really is part of a holder who also does not benefit anything again because it has already been transferred before by the Health Council. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u148	Good day to all and all. I would like to warmly greet the Intestinal Inflammatory Educational Society (ASSEII), especially the beloved President Ánxela and Victor, who accompany us today from the rostrum. Representatives of an association that has only three years of life, but three very fruitful years, and that's why I want to thank them for the work they've done and bless them already for the achievements they've achieved, because it's evidence that, for something to be solved, the first step to take is that you know there's a problem. It is clear that the problem of people with stomachs, and the difficulties we are debating today, are some of these great strangers to most of society. The collective that they represent, like others, saw the need to organize themselves to demand measures and solutions for people with ostomy. And the work that they have done over the past three years, to organize, to raise awareness, to inform, to form, to claim, to demand, to share, to be solidarity with other causes, to others, to people with other diseases, to other diseases, because the truth is bearing fruit. Indeed, it is a situation that many people live worldwide in the Spanish state of 70,000. I was told by the president a little while ago that when they started with the association, they were surprised by the number of people who had a stomach; that is, 5,000 in Galicia, and in the district of Pontevedra 2,000. It's a very important amount. And they were also surprised by the somewhat embarrassing situation of many of these people, who don't want to make a public presentation of the problem they have and therefore look for solutions. It's a question that can be derived from many reasons: after a cancer, a tumor of bladder, an intestinal infarction, a traffic accident... when campaigns are made of the consequences of a traffic accident, you're told that you can stay in a wheelchair or other kinds of issues, but, for example, you're not talking about this. What we're talking about is that we need to break taboo and normalize people's lives with stomach. We live in a society where ostomy is characterized by being that great unknown and also that great hiding place; it's unknown and also a great hiding place. Actually, we talked about removing barriers here today. It's necessary to eliminate barriers in general, in all kinds of disabilities, and it's also evidence that in many cases having a stomach is not considered a disability, which is a matter where we have to keep moving on because it also limits a lot the lives of people in the social, family, but also work. And since it's an organic disability, it seems that the disabilities that you don't see, that you don't see, don't exist, don't give them the importance that you should give them. So we're talking about removing barriers and what different realities need different solutions. Clearly, the disability of having a stomach needs a physical reality to care for these people different from a person with mobility, who goes in wheelchairs or who goes with other kinds of questions. So it seems to us that the steps taken have been taken. It's also true that it wasn't by spontaneous generation, it was by that constant pressure, that constant work, that are doing the people affected, and the administration is going to the trouble, but it's good to go. They're taking a few steps at the moment. It started with a lot of alharaca the opening of that first bathroom in Montecelo, and others go. The Pontevedra Town Hall has already taken steps in this direction as well. The first adapted toilet in the Sports Pavilion is opened. These steps are important to us, and above all to act on the second part of the initiative presented by the People's Party, which is to take legal steps. If it's included in the technical building code, then we don't have to come here anymore? We'll have to come because one thing is legislation and another is reality, to shape legislation into facts. But it's very important that the legal level introduce this technical code of construction and that it's considered a further disability, with which they need what they ask: a bathroom that has a toilet with a tank, a table at the height to support the bags and the issues for the hygiene, that has a permanent light, that has a small shower, that has a small lift for people, for children and people of low stature, because more and more children also have stomach, a mirror... that is, issues that don't seem so complicated. It's about political will and being aware that there's a reality that needs to be solved. Therefore, the BNG considers this to be one more step than we're talking about here, though it's things that some are already running. Obviously, it's not the end of demands, because there are many that must continue to insist on. We will therefore support this initiative. Thank you very much
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the reply you have the word, for the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Encarnation Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u150	Good morning again. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, this is a new initiative, it's not in place. It started in hospitals, but if you've heard our proposal, you'll see that it goes much further. What we bring to this parliamentary headquarters today is a clear and concrete matter: improving the quality of life of ostomized patients. They just heard it is easy, they agree or not. Mrs. Solla, you can't mix butter with merines. In health everything is important, it's true, but today we're talking about bathrooms adapted for ostomized patients, that's what we bring to this plenary today. And, of course, on this request is going to involve budget allocation, as it couldn't be otherwise. With regard to the amendments of the PSOE, Mr. Torrado, if you have read and heard our proposal, you will see that what we ask goes far beyond your amendments; if you have read them and listened to them. We ask, besides hospitals, these bathrooms are made in the public buildings of the Galician Union, and we demand that they also encourage the rest of the infrastructure, both public and private. He's written it and he's been able to listen to me too. In point 2a) we are also going much further, because you ask the Government of Spain to provide progressive care adapted to ostomized patients in all buildings of its title in Galicia. We didn't ask for it only in Galicia, we asked for it throughout the Spanish state. As for what you request in the second ter), to report on the situation of ostomized patients in Galicia that refers to the number and distribution by EOXI of etymology and future perspectives, I thought it was a transcription error, but I heard it live voice. I thought I meant etiology, not etimology. As I mentioned in my first intervention, the etiology of the different diseases that lead these patients to the realization of an ostomy is varied, from trauma to severe diseases. But this is not the object of our proposal. In the previous plenary session we were accused of not bringing this Parliament concrete proposals on health. Concrete etymologically, which is not ethically consistent, and I think that our proposal is very concrete and is very consistent, and those who now seem to want to dilute it and make it generic and inconsistent are you with your amendments, we can't accept them. I hope and wish you to support this proposal to contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of this group of patients who, for various health reasons, needed an ostomy for their resolution. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of En Marea, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogando, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the authorization of the Audasa from the rise of tariffs in the tariffs of AP-9 for 2018 and those of the following years, as well as the preparation by the Council of Galicia of a study of the feasibility of the concession's rescue for its public management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u152	Mr. Lake Peñas has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u153	Good morning. Audasa is one of the factual powers of our country. You don't care who rules, they always send them. And what we're seeing in the debates in this House is looking for who's the government responsible for the spread of Audasa's scam in time. Audasa has an insulting custom for our country, and it's to give us, when Christmas parties arrive, the announcement of the rise of the next year's beaches. And this year the gift is special: 4%. Directly an unacceptable scandal for a infrastructure that is already expensive; that is poorly handled; that accumulates the largest number of complaints from its users; that reduces staff to save costs and have greater benefits. It's unacceptable because Audasa is the highway that's going to climb the most beaches throughout the Spanish state in 2018. It is unacceptable because that 4% is supposed to double the IPC upload, which is estimated to be 2%. It's followed by a robbery to the Greek people; a robbery that has two instruments. The first is to achieve the extension of the concession period. I don't know if this House is aware, Audasa was born in franchise with a period of 39-year-old peas concession. With the expansion of the concessional period — basically Aznar — the concessional period of that highway is 75 years. I'm going to say this clearly in this House: it's the highway of toll throughout the state that has the largest concessional period of exploitation; and I say exploitation in the double sense that it has that word, business and our country. Audasa fraudulently used the argument of works to negotiate extensions that would gently give him successive governments. And when he's 75 years old and he can no longer extend the concessional period, he acts with the second weapon of the robbery, the rise of the tariffs. The rise in rates because, for the state as a whole, the increase is going to be of 2%, of 1.9 % — Mr Tellado is not — because that is the annual IPC that exists, therefore, pensions do not, but the fares on highways are going to rise to 1.9%; for there Audasa is going to expand that differential, you know why, because with that it it funds the works of enlargement. I wanted to go back to the concessional period. Between 2018 and 2021, the first generation's highways, Franco's highways, are won. They come between 2018 and 2021 each minus two, one of them is AP-9, which has period until 2048, seventy-five years we gave it to you! What does that mean? For if the Government of the People's Party resists lobbyist pressure, in the year 2021 in the Spanish state there will be only one highway to the beach: AP-9. We are talking about a company, as has already been said in this House, which is the most profitable highway in the Spanish state. He earns 45 million euros net every year he divides them among his shareholders. In your financial plan you have already told us that you will enter — a shame that President Feijóo is not — 10 billion euros from today until the concession is complete. When President Feijóo assumes of these 7 million euros that we save in the accounts every year — 7 million euros — Audasa says he's going to charge from the Greeks 10 billion euros until the year 2048. I think that's the term of comparison. It also says Audasa in that financial plan that's going to earn 3,000 million euros. Today there is a newspaper in our country that says that Audasa has already won, up to 2016, 1 billion euros; then it's going to be 3 billion euros! And from here come some questions. The first is that I would like the Government group to reflect. What's the point of our country's main communication infrastructure being owned by an American investment fund? How is it possible that this route, which has to articulate economically, socially and territorially our country, depends on a Michigan investment fund? Does that make any sense? A country that respects itself, can you accept that situation? Secondly, he said that between 2018 and 2021 the concessionary periods of the vast majority of the first generation highways end. The highways of the second generation, Aznar's, the radials, those are already public, because we had to pay among all the failed business that led to Aznar's friend capitalism. Before Marcos Cal was asked to withdraw a few words about alleged funding, but I'm going to say: who did the radio highways? Villar Mir, Florentino, Sacyr, Bancaja, Caja Madrid. That gang was able to provoke a hole of billions of euros that we have to pay for, and Rajoy's government is thinking -- because this minister has already said it's visiting here today -- to get the bid back so that these themselves -- I won't say what I'm thinking -- or their friends stay with the business again. Intolerable! [[Applause]] Audasa's got a prisoner... and I'm gonna put a hood on President Feijóo. Audasa has imprisoned the Greek society, even the Greek Government, because she has a shirt of strength. That shirt of strength is a concessional period of seventy-five years. That straitjacket is the 2011 agreement with a minister and the 2013 agreement with another minister. And Audasa has armored -- that's armored! -- the scam until the year 2048. That's the reality! In that sense, what we have proposed in the GNP is to open a double debate. The first part of the debate is to make a common front for Parliament, the German Government and the Greek society to prevent this increase in tariffs, which would have very negative consequences on the purchasing power of people, which would affect the competitiveness of businesses and the logistics of our country. But the second question is that this House and the Greek society have to take a step forward. We need the transfer of competition, because this country has the right not to be an American investment fund, from Michigan, which manages the main infrastructure in our country. But, as I say, those signed power shirts that Audasa has: the agreement for twenty years to raise 1% of the rates, the agreement for the concession period to reach 2048, make it difficult for the Galician and the Greek Government to manage when it assumes the competition, so one must consider a subject that goes further: transfer of the concession, yes; transfer of the property, too. We need to recover our country's main communication infrastructure for the public sector. We need it to really articulate an integrated public network, with only one management criterion, which solves the inexplicable absurdity: why a company or a Ferrol citizen can go to Madrid for free — well, until Adamero exactly — and to go to Vigo, go back and forth, you have to pay 46 euros. Is that the conception we have of the country?, that the internal articulation of our territory and our businesses, of the people who travel, are penalized, and the connection with Madrid is free? That's the business logic of the big investment funds, which we have to break up with. In this sense — and the end — the GNP we present has two points: firstly, to require the Spanish Government to leave without effect the agreement with Audasa for the rise of the tariffs. And secondly, we don't know why the People's Party denies that within three months the Government of Greece is preparing a feasibility study to rescue AP-9 to the public. This is the GNP we present.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u154	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u155	Thank you, President. Of course, the BNG will support this study initiative on the relief of the concession, because in addition to yesterday, in the motion presented by the BNG, we ask for exactly the same, or even something else. We ask not only to analyze and study the viability and cost of the ransom for the public, but also to study the multimillionaire benefits that the concessionaire and her property had over this time, and also all the advantages and privileges granted to her by the State. It has to be said that these data that were given here of profits refer to an accounting plan of the year 2011, not to the present moment, the data today would be different. We also ask or ask that this study not only remain in the analysis of the cost and viability of the ransom, for just as there are money for other things, and for the rescue of the ruined self-roaded Madrids, there could be, too, right? We think this deserves a much deeper research, with light and tachographs, for example, on all the prebens and privileges granted to the concessionaire over all these years, including the extension of the concession to the legal maximum of seventy-five years that enjoy 3 motorways in the state. Two are in Galicia: besides AP-9, AP-53; and another is between León and Campomanes, A-66. Or on the rise of taxes; or on tax advantages, including this ignominious 95% IBI bonus; or the reduction in corporate tax; the absence of bonuses. Why is there no sanctioning file, as much as they announced? Why does this highway have no sanctions, when they announced in 2014, for example, a global audit? Why is there this compartment? And we could also analyze and study there, in that committee, the trajectory of the various parliamentary groups. Because of course, it turns out that the BNG, which has voted against the transfer once in 2006, is very bad, and the People's Party, who voted 50 times against the transfer, is very good. The BNG, which brought this issue to the State Parliament and the Greek Parliament 50 times, and you voted against it, is very bad, and the PP is very good. The BNG, who promoted and wrote Mrs. Ana Pontón to the AP-9 transfer law to Galicia, is very bad and is Galician number one enemy, and you, who have watched the transfer of that law, are very good. Things to see! Well, we tabled a amendment, in addition to supporting the initiative, demanding once again — to give evidence of that dual moral language of the People's Party — the transfer of AP-9 to Galicia. We want to denounce his hypocrisy and his cynicism, because they say something here and the opposite — they did the same day — in Madrid; and now they come to us with these incredible excuses that one cannot transfer because one must defend Spain's sacred unity... by the tensions of Catalonia... when this debate took place over a year ago, and now they come to us with these excuses. What the BNG wants to repeat, once again, is that if you have to end this shame, this infamy, this assault, this robbery, this swindle, this swindle, this shame, this humiliation besides, because it is a real humiliation to this country, this contempt to our country, to which Mr. Feijóo answers that there must be loyalty. Loyalty to Spain, loyalty to Minister Íñigo de la Serna. What a shame! Look, we're not going to ask them to be what they aren't, but what we're asking the People's Party is to do something, to do something! That they decide which side they are on; that they cease to be a zero on the left on this theme, that they cease to be corals, that they cease to be palm trees, that they cease to be state government landowners. That's good! [[Applause]] I know you don't like the word mammoths — well, Mr. Santalices doesn't care — but that's what I really am on this subject, mammoths. Figuratively, President, let me make it clear, so that there are no bad interpretations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u156	Yes, of course. Yes, but no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u157	They're carpeting the way to the multinationals, the corsaries, who come here to profit, come to suck the money from our country. So do something and stop doing this shameful and indecent role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u158	Thank you. Mr. Bará, we remove the word mammoth, because you and I know the meaning, and everyone knows it. [[Applause]] We'll take it back, won't we, Mr. Bará? Mr. Bará, I didn't hear him. Are we taking her away?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u159	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u160	Shall we remove the word mammoth?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u161	No, no, no, no. I think it was in a figurative sense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u162	No, no, but that's not worth it. It's not worth the figure. Retreat, Christmas Spirit! If not, I have to call him in order. You'll see! If you don't take it off, I'll take it off and call it in order. Everyone knows what that means, I suppose. That's why. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga. You don't get involved in that, leave the matter alone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u163	Thank you, President. Well nothing, I refuse to enter this rhetorical escalation and if I'm going to try a limited precision on some aspects that are being said about AP-9. I mean, where is a part of the origin of all this, something was alluded to. Of course, Audasa was a hundred percent public enterprise, and at one point she had a concession that ended in 2023 and extended twenty-five more years, until 2048. That moment is the year 2000, it was ruling Aznar, it was Paco Álvarez Helmets Minister of Development; it was part of the Government, on a second level, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, and this extended until 2048. Of course, in exchange for some works — as Mr Lago said before — have been done. Moreover, the terms of the concession change. So the profit-sharing rules are liberalised and the subsequent step is facilitated, which takes place in 2003. In 2003, this 100-per-cent company fully privatizes itself and is paid to the Ministry and Development, that is, to the central government, 1,600 million euros. You pay them a property company, and the ministry is entering these 1,600 million euros. This sale goes on to govern Aznar, Francisco Álvarez Cascos, and Alberto Núñez Feijóo in charge of the Territorial Policy Council. This is what prepares for the current situation. These 1,600 million are, right after the Prestige, when the Galicia Plan has been launched since the State Administration, which is largely financed by this route. I mean, we're all paying, through today's tariffs, the promises of the Galician Plan of 2003. Secondly, the famous question of transfer. Of course, the Government of the Union on a Government Council approves forty and so many transfers. That happens at the end of 2005. The Vice-President of the Union then comes to tell Parliament these transfers. The Joint Committee shall be convened. I myself am part of the delegation of Greece from this joint committee, along with other representatives — some of the People's Party, like Mr Pita at the time — that we attended the beginning of a negotiation of those forty and so many transfers, among which was AP-9. And then that's when the People's Party puts forward a non-law proposal in this Parliament saying, "Oh, of the others I forget, I want us to vote only this one. But the others were already formally claimed. And, in fact, the spokesperson for the People's Party at that time is what he says — and I am going to quote him: "when we are talking about a move envisaged in the report of the German Government to the Joint Commission on Transfers." The spokesperson for the People's Party himself when he intervenes in that plenary session. Third subject. Mr. Núñez Feijóo told us about the beaches and told us: in 2007, 2008, 2015, 2016... Sorry, he forgot about 2012. What about the year 2012? That the rates of AP-9 rise by 13% with the entrance to the Rajoy Government. Because it rises the EVI from 18 to 21%, because it eliminates the bonus from 7 and because it applies the annual fee update. And there's 13% up! And at that moment Mr. Nuñez Feijóo said nothing, protested when there were others. He didn't say anything there. The biggest climb in a year, in a single year, in 2012, didn't say anything! That is the responsibility of Mr. President of the Board, who tells us that he always acts the same, with consistency; in that case not. Of course, he also tells us that we did not know how many wrong things to assume, from the budgets of the Touriño Government Board, a bonus. But we don't know what happened to the AP-53 that was quoted before. Mr Fraga's Galician Board put 60 million euros — 10 billion of the old pesetas — for this work to be done, which corresponded to a central government responsibility. It was 10,000 million pesetas, 60 million euros. The second plot, which reached Lalín, was inaugurated as Vice President of the Galician Union Mr. Núñez Feijóo. So if we want coherence, we will apply coherence. Finally — that I have 26 seconds left — towards the future. We're going to support this non-law proposition because it talks about a study, then we'll see what happens. But in the matter of fees, what we say is that, in addition to agreeing on the objective, we must also put in place some practical method. And the only practical method that happens to us to prevent the fees from going up excessively, from January 1st and then, is that we assume from the Ministry of Development the amount corresponding to the work, which, in addition to explaining to us the concessionaire, has fallen in relation to the initial forecasts. Surely with 100 million a year for 3 years it would be more than enough for this, and so we could avoid this climb. If anyone has another idea, explain it and we can study it. Because there are some other possibilities, I also have some other possibilities in my head, but this is the one that seems more practical and easier. We not only want to protest but we want to give some solution. And we know that in 2011 and 2012 ministers probably had no other option to fund those works, but today it's possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u165	Today it's possible! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u166	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mr Bará, you insult when you have no arguments. He doesn't offend anyone he wants, but he can. It's not your case. And returning to AP-9, to tell some things and to make some precision of what was not spoken in this plenary -- which we have several -- I would also like to remember that we are talking about a public-use and protective infrastructure, of general interest to the State, which is a concession of temporary private exploitation. By the way, Mr. Lago, nothing different is what the Tide governments do. Because in the Coruña, far from municipalizing something, they've outsourced things that officials have been doing for decades. Because, of course, now you have a problem, come here, talk about very nice things, but where they rule -- and now they rule -- we know they do the opposite. We were saying this morning, and we were talking about vaccines, because fortunately we've already met them, and that's a vaccine, that we're already vaccinated from the Tide because we really know what they do when they rule, as we see in the Coruña. We were talking about things so extravagant that even now security plans outsource them, the nail conditions, 100,000 euros! And now they're shocked! [[Murmurs.]] Works, services... everything! Where they rule, outsource everything, gentlemen of the Tide. Everything! It's time for them to also have a little coherence. They come here and talk about very nice things, but when they get to rule, they outsource everything. That's right, most Tide Signers. That's what they really care about. But, look, we paid a dealership some fees to have a maintenance, to fund some works — that we have to say and repeat because we're funding works, this is a way of financing at the end — and they're not amortized. Let's not continue to say they are amortized, nor is Vigo-Tui amortized, nor is the Coruña-Ferrol and Fene-Ferrol amortized, nor is Rande's operation amortized, which we have not yet inaugurated, nor is the surroundings of Santiago amortized. They're not amortized! And in the end, tell them too, don't deceive people by saying that things are paid when they're not. When you sign one thing six years earlier, they say, you'll get paid by anyone who comes! Because they're not paid, they're not amortized, we have to pay them from now on. Look, when I hear some things here! Those we've ever been in management, when a concession is made, when it's done in exchange for works, they're all intervened, but very involved!, informed and evaluated by the General Intervention of the State. But here if you think someone gives a play, you value something... If it were such a gift, in a public contest it would go another and take another. Things have an administrative record, they have an evaluation, they're called in a public contest for an assessment, and what they want in a public contest. And, look, despite the same thing, we know that we're in a global economy -- maybe not others -- and Spanish companies have motorway concessions in Texas, Chicago, Illinois. What do I think? Well, that's normal in a globalized world. That's the normal thing that there are Spanish companies that we have. Fortunately, transport companies and Spanish infrastructure companies are leaders in the world. We can say that! That's why there's a lot of people working around the world, because we have concessions in Michigan, concessions in Chicago, concessions in Texas or Portland. And we have in the grants of infrastructure companies and Spanish workers. That's what's happening. We've already told you twenty times: we're against the rise of the beaches, we're against it, but it's signed by a socialist minister and it's published. I'll read it exactly. On 24 November 2011, published in a royal decree in the Official Gazette of the State, in clause 6a, an increase of 1% accumulative annual tariffs — nothing other than a 0,9 % for three years — 20 years accumulative! This is signed and published in the BOE, and we must do it if we are a serious government. Others said: to me the only thing that happens to me is 100 million euros a year in the next three years. And I say, of course, but this is what we're talking about. Galicia — and I remind you again — is the second autonomous community in public investments in Development in the state. When you go out there everyone says: I want to be a German, too, because we have that investment. Don't make me the same traps as the budget amendments. Tell me: to get 100 million a year, what work do you want to remove from the budgets, Mr. Leicega?, what work must be removed? Because we're already the second most investment. Of course, it's easy to keep growing and growing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u169	I'm done. He says in 2011-2012 — I told him yesterday — the White Minister had 21 billion, three times more than the Lord of the Serna today, three times more! Then don't compare me, if when he had three more times said he didn't give it to him, what do we now ask a government that has the third part?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u171	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u172	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u173	I thank Mr. Martín Prado for his presentation because it's confirmation of what I said. We have a 20-year-old power shirt, 1%, which was signed in 2011, and we have a 38-year-old power shirt, until 2048, which Aznar signed. In fact, we have two power shirts that have oppressed the ability of the Government to act and that we have to pay for Greek citizenship. You're absolutely right, Mr. Martín Prado, all right! Do we have any chance of getting rid of that shirt? The Greek society, its Government, must try to free itself of that shirt of force which compresses the articulation, mobility, competitiveness, and which discriminates against the neighbours of certain territories? Or are we going to wait patiently until the year 2048, when there are no more 2021 other highways in the state and this is the only significant one in terms of walking? Shall we do that, Mr. Martín Prado? Do we expect until the year 2048 to pay 1% on time since 2011, and the IPC, and everything that Audasa wants to continue to create? Second. They're not market prices. There's someone here who's a businessman. When you charge 140 million euros and dividends 45 million euros, that's a monopoly income, that's not competition; that's using the BOE to attack citizenship. A normal business, of the people who produce normal things, has a profitability on the sales of 4th, 5th, 6th, 7%. A company that billing 140 million euros divides into dividends, after paying taxes, bonus, 45 million euros, is a cop! And you don't have to be an economist, Martín Prado, to know that tariffs are abusive. You don't have to do a cost study, you just have to know that if I charge 140 and earn 70 million euros of the 140, pay taxes and dividends 45 million, I know the rates are abusive. It's intolerable! Keeping our rates up is intolerable. The real margin that Audasa has to finance part of the stuff that says it's financing with the increase of the fees is huge.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u174	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u175	I'll give you the reason...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u176	On the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u177	I'm going to give Mr. Leicega the reason. Of course, a company says: you don't worry, I do the work, I take the costs, I do what I have to do, and you give me 1% for twenty years. Of course, that... or you're a fool — I won't tell you that you're not gonna leave me the president — but you're a fool, fuck! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] How are you going to let someone do the business to tell you how much the work is and how you have to pay it? [[Applause]] That's unacceptable, and we have to look for different formulas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u179	In this sense, we have accepted the amendments because they seem to us to complement them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u181	And we call this government to do something at once.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u182	Thank you, Mr. Lago. [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Excuse me? What are you asking for, Mr. Leicega?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u183	Just to ask Mr. Lago to tell us what's going on with the amendments we amend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u184	Yes, he said he accepted them. We are now debating three non-legislative proposals accumulatingly: of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, all of them on actions for the eradication of the anticipa. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to halt the progress of the presence of the Titina bird in Galicia and the establishment of biological fighting mechanisms against this species G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. José Manuel Pérez Seco and D. José Antonio Quiroga Díaz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the realization in 2018 of a massive trap against the minced bird, to deepen research and eradicate this species, as well as to address the damage caused in the apiculture population and to include the representatives of the sector in the follow-up commission G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. David Rodríguez Estévez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the launch in 2018 of a plan of shock for the control of the populations of the Taiwanese bird, the effective functioning of the follow-up commission and the opening of lines of investigation in this regard, as well as the opening of a line of specific aids to alleviate the losses suffered by beekeepers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u185	These proposals were amended by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u186	Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor first to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, representatives of the Stop Velutina Platform. Let me tell you a story; it's not going to be a Christmas story, it would have happened, but this one is too. When the Castinian's intrusion began to visit us with intent to stay, the alarms rang and from the BNG and the opposition began to bring initiatives to take the matter seriously, after seeing what happened in Italy. As if a car had been singing! They always voted against doing something, awaiting the arrival of the Holy Spirit in the form of Torymus. And a month ago the BNG introduced the last one; you took it. Less than a week ago, the white dove landed in the Middle Rural Council, and you made a summary of the presentation throughout the year by the opposition and present us with triumphal air a trap initiative. If we vote in favour of it, the revenue is yours; if we vote against it, we contradict our speech. From the BNG we know that when the problem becomes unbearable and the beetle reaches the towns and cities will do as they do in the fires: they will draw out a package of measures, which we will have already stated, and will occupy the headlines of the media and propaganda that they have, but it will be long lost. Because the plumage is there, increasingly present, increasingly affluent to bees, insects, agricultural productions, people, the environment. Because the alarm is real, people are scared. This summer these helicopters were round the houses of the villages by flying the figs of the fig trees, the pears of the orchards, the grapes of the bacelles, the silk of the crying willows and, above all, by catching every flying insect that crosses, and the hives. They were of no use in the middle of the summer, the traps on the alvarices and on those cited trees that condensed hundreds of men's menacing individuals for people and farms. The worst alarm arises when people in the community see how all the efforts are useless and how every year the pressure passes it looks exponentially multiplied, because when you tell 112 of a nest, if you come to the board, all are excuses; well, if it's easy, it retreats. So it's the city hall that takes most of them away. But the worst is at risk for people. I know that village people are used to living with bugs, but with known bugs, with old ones, and not with second ones. What we miss, what people miss, is that the Union decides to act seriously and strictly. Since the Galician Stop Velutin Platform, we have been transferred to all groups of this camera a series of concerns and proposals for measures that we make by our chance and by the knowledge of the problem they have shown. The main combat is in the spring, in the massive trap made at the right time. Massive and intensive throughout the territory; it is suitable because it will be the weather capricho who marks the right time to do so. And you have to be ready. It should be done by the competent advisors in the matter and it would consist of the delivery of some 50,000 traps with their attractives, and not only the beekeepers, it would also include the councils and schools. This new distribution is fundamental for cheating to work. This trap requires a follow-up which requires at least six visits to each of the traps throughout the year, one placement and five replacement, taking a positive or negative result control and more of each of the actions performed. At this point, when you talk to affected people, especially rural people, you detect a lack of awareness of the plague and the behaviors of that tart, and you keep calling for the destruction of children at this time, when I'm now just jealously uninhabited. That's why we believe that this campaign of cheating and fighting must be generalized with the involvement of the entire population. For example, the identification of primary children is essential, the media should be at the service of the common good, providing true information of what we know about the little bug, which is not much, of the risks and what should not be done and how to identify children, both primary and secondary. We must be careful not to add to the evil that Vespa is doing in the populations of insects in the country, destroying children, for example, of Vespa crab and other native species, who are easily confused by people who don't know what the matter is about. They've got enough of what they've got. The third measure: it would be necessary in the fight against this invasive species to put part of the knowledge of this species, its behavior in this territory and its weaknesses in order to achieve biological fighting methods, the only one that can guarantee us success without environmental damage. We need a selective pheromone that attracts queens — not to proclaim the republic, don't be scared — to capture them selectively. We need lines of possible biological struggle, the most effective struggle. For this work it will be necessary to unify and finance the research activity. Research from public bodies, because they have the advantage that the absence of economic gain is an objective, which in itself is a guarantee. For now, the fight against the mint doesn't lead the German Government, and this is sad. Precisely, given the silence shown, the Deputies of the Coruña, Lugo and Pontevedra take the initiative, signing research agreements and cheating and placing money: Deputy of the Coruña, 2017, 137,378.82 euros, agreement with the University of Santiago de Compostela, here and at the Campus de Lugo. Four priority lines of research: one, control strategies, development, obtaining and testing a specific biocidal product for the fight against the foot-and-mouth disease; two, mapping and potential distribution; three, alternative biological fighting strategies; four, assessment of the socio-economic impact of the plague. The Deputies of Lugo and Pontevedra also made agreements to act in the solution. And I'm not going to extend. But among the three Members, they take up 200,000 euros alone in research against 50,000 of the Council. It would be logical and normal for the follow-up Commission, if there exists, to be able to unify efforts, guide and, above all, count on the groups concerned, who have qualified opinions and have shown active involvement in the problem from the outset. The Greek Government, through the councils involved in the management of this invasion, has the duty to put the necessary means to stop the progress of this tartar, in the consciousness that they are only measurable in the long term. This research activity is essential if we want to establish a stable plan of struggle applicable. But political decision is needed and research must be paid. We're not going to accept the amendments, among other things, because we find them ridiculous. There is only one acceptable one, which is that the follow-up committee meets with the apicola sector and with Stop Velutina, as well as with all those involved; when you put it, it is that they have already decided and so we will not waste our time. And, above all, it seems to us that it's all right with so much autobomb and that its amendment is to continue in the struggle that they don't do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u188	Thank you, Mr. Rivas Cruz. Mr. José Manuel Pérez Seco has the floor by the group of representatives of the Group of Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u189	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. They also welcome members of Stop Velutina and members of Goente Mel House. Today we bring a matter of concern: Vespa Tienina. Its definitive settlement in Galicia — as you know — is taking alarming levels, as it significantly affects the expectations of local fauna, fruit and, above all, the population of honey bees. Let's remember, let's review how the Chinese arrived in Galicia: in 2004 it reached the European continent; in 2010 it reached the north peninsula; in 2012 it began to detect itself in the coastal Galicia. Five years ago he's been here in Galicia, since he's begun to detect himself in Galicia, five years in which, given his ability to adapt and expand, this species is spreading throughout the territory of our community. Because of its large size and aggressiveness, it poses a great problem, on the one hand, for human health and on the other, it is a predator of the Apis mellifera, which is the producer of honey, not forgetting that the latter performs another fundamental function for the conservation of human life: pollination. And it's predatory because it causes a large number of casualties in the hives and alarm among the Greek beekeepers, who, despite all their efforts, are overwhelmed by this continence. The Chinese Vespa is endangering a relevant and growing socio-economic activity, human health and, in addition, the possibilities to adapt to pollination. Cottage is hard to control, because its colonies can flourish quickly, have relatively high children's densities, and it can be a challenge to find children in non-urban areas. What measures have been taken so far? Programmes for locating and withdrawing children. But they are insufficient or, at least, they are not giving the expected results, given the reproductive characteristics of this invasive species. This leads us to the following conclusion: the solutions to control and stabilize the populations of tybinas pass irremediably through research; research necessary to provide with control formulas that have no side effects on fauna and flora, regardless of whether or not action is taken as the location and withdrawal of children mentioned above. Look, gentlemen, climate change has come to stay and climate conditions have come especially favourable for the expansion of this species. The conditions of this winter and spring of 2017, as it was the absence of cold, did not reduce the activity of many pudding children, nor did they reduce the number of breeding queens as it has happened in recent years, with which beekeepers and fruit growers are fearing a replay of the activity of the thymine. We're under different conditions. Climate change is a reality. So what used to be useful now doesn't work anymore. For all this it is essential to redouble and channel properly efforts to fight effectively against this plague, to put concrete measures on the table. These are the ones we've been posing from the Socialist Group: First, the massive trap, which must begin in February as late as late before the temperatures rise, and start with the warmest areas of the autonomous community, then advance progressively towards the rest of Galicia. Prevention. It's about preventing their expansion and controlling the number of copies. Second, the investigation. Research empowerment is essential to properly know the behaviors and characteristics of the thymp and to find appropriate formulas to which it fights. And from research to practice, find formulas to transfer the advances of research to its real use, to combat tributary in the most effective and efficient way. Take note of the efforts being made by the three deputies governed by the socialists! Third, unifying efforts. The fight against a plague with the characteristics of the young lady requires unifying efforts and counting on the involvement of the agents involved in this struggle. For this reason, we understand that the presence and integration of the associative tissue apicola galego, as well as other affected sectors, are necessary to find the best formulas for extinction and pest control. That is to say, involve the apiculture sector and all sectors affected in two areas: first, in the search for solutions; second, in the nearness of the real problems they are suffering. It is essential and vital to achieve the definitive control of this plague. Fourth line, formation. To know the characteristics of the plague on the part of the population involved in the dissemination work that must go from educational centres to the general population. It must understand the knowledge of the characteristics of the Tutin Vespa, its individual and collective behavior, the particularities of children; ultimately, everything that implies a true knowledge of this plague. Training is fundamental for people who have the mission of extinguishing. And training in this area has to be treated at all levels and create a social consciousness to try to face it from all areas of society. The greater the people's knowledge of the subject, the more eyes and hands they'll have to face it. And finally prevention. We've talked before how important it was to start as soon as the heat comes. Soon after the trap is carried out, the necessary actions will be carried out to avoid an increase in the number of primary children, thus helping to control individuals in the colony of the young lady. In short, the measures are: massive trapping before heat comes; research, and from research to practice; third, unifying efforts, i.e. having all the agents involved; fourth, training, which involves knowledge and dissemination; and fifth, prevention, how much earlier to reduce primary children. And so today from the Galician Socialists' Parliamentary Group, we present the following non-legislative proposal: "The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to: 1st. Start the trap in time; from February to April in the warmest areas and from March to May in the rest of the community. 2nd. Face the purchase cost of 50,000 more attractive traps needed to make this mechanism effective. 3rd. To carry out an informative and informative campaign on how to use the means to eradicate this insect. 4th. Set who or who must put the traps to perform a massive trap. 5th. To provide a budgetary share enough to deepen research in order to find or improve the eradication systems of this species. 6o. Establish direct help to deal with the damage caused by the Asian bird. 7th. Open the Follow-up Commission to the representatives of the agricultural sector." Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u190	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. I'd pray silent in the Chamber. You have the floor on behalf of the Proponent Group of En Marea, Mrs. Paula Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u191	Thank you, President. Good morning. Also, first of all, we want to greet the companions of the Platform Stop Velutina that accompany us. In addition, we have to say that, in fact, most of the proposals we bring today are due to their information, their persistence in the mobilization and the visibility of the struggle against the humble Vespa. There are a lot of the issues already. As we know, this invasive species arrived in 2012, and today, five years later, we have almost 70% of our colonized territory. This shows the situation in Galicia: it's one of the most affected areas of the Spanish state, and it's obvious that we're not doing enough for the figures we're handling, and the evidence is in sight of all. In fact, we don't think we're doing anything. There is a lack of political will that can be seen exemplified in a very clear way in the lack of a specific budget to fight the Tunine Vespa. We see that since 2012 we have been trying to put in place only partial measures. There is a global plan of action that takes this threat seriously. And beekeepers have long been visible and alerting about the serious danger this invasive species poses to the hives, but also warning that this is a problem that deals with us as a whole of society, not only to beekeepers, but also that the environmental damage of this species affects all of the Galicians and the Greeks. And the situation doesn't take long. As I say, the data are very worrisome, the evolution is also highly rapid, we have to put a stop to it now, and the damage is economic, environmental, ecological, and increasingly serious, and as time goes on, it's going to be much more difficult to deal with this species. We bring this initiative with the intention that the Greek Government take this problem as a priority, that it takes this work as a serious implication, and that it really puts itself into working on the coordination needed to fight the West Vespa. And I'm going to note some of the measures that seem fundamental to us. They are already mentioned by the other opposition groups, but stress that what we need is an integral plan and not partial measures. We need a space where we can coordinate and work in a coordinated way to fight the West Vespa, because today it's a real chaos and the answers are totally uncoordinated, partial and not enough. First of all, we think that we need to carry out a shock plan that will allow us to control the population. And for this purpose, we need a massive trapping, which must be done by 2018, and a systematic, massive and coordinated trapping must be made. It is also important — as already noted — to do in time, not wait beyond January to have this plan crafted, and that the trap takes place between February and April-May, according to the area. It is true that last year the Middle Rural Council split traps, 10,000 traps, but it's not enough because — as I say again — it has to be massive. And of course we must protect the apiaries, but we must also protect the peri-urban areas for this population control, which must be our end in the medium term. And in order to facilitate this massive trap we think that, in addition to funding the traps, a campaign must be carried out to raise awareness for the whole of society and paying special attention to educational centres, which we think can develop a fundamental work in this work. And above all you have to go one step further, you have to put the traps, but then you have to have them identified and make a further evaluation to evaluate the effectiveness of these traps, where they are collecting more and checking their placement. Secondly, of course, you have to invest a lot more in research. Today it's ridiculous compared to what's being invested from other administrations. Above all, research needs to be unified, and public funds must be provided. There is currently a single agreement signed between the universities in Santiago and Vigo with the Ministry of the Environment is totally insufficient, we need many more research agreements. And many times these research agreements were announced, but then in practice they don't come into practice and they don't take place, they're only used to give certain headlines in some places. And research is key, because you have to know this species, how it works and how it adapted to this geographic area as well. On the other hand, we also think that there is a need for support for the sector. The Apicola Plan is totally insufficient because it does not consider these specific aids to deal with the damage to the plague. And we need to open this line of specific aids to alleviate the losses suffered, both from the physical loss of animals and also from the expenses resulting from the management of this pest. And finally, the follow-up Commission has to work, and we have to repeat this issue on numerous occasions in the Committee on the Rural Environment. The follow-up Commission does not meet, does not work and does not incorporate the sectors that are affected. This is a repeated claim. We seem to assume it now, we rejoice, and we hope that they take this necessary follow-up commission seriously, that it meets a lot more frequently and, above all, that it incorporates the apicola associative sector, because we don't know what it does, nor do we know who it meets, nor do we know anything at all. All these measures will do nothing if they are not stocked with a budget split. And we don't understand why the amendment tabled by our fair group was rejected very recently, in which we asked for precisely a small amount, which obviously wouldn't solve the whole problem of the Tienin Vespa, but which was a start for a plan to fight the Tienin Vespa in the budgets of the Rural Council. If we don't have budgets it'll all be on wet paper. And also, related to the necessary coordination, we need to socialize much more fully what is being said and what is being discussed in this follow-up committee. But also the contributions to the Working Group of Invasive Exotic Species and the Asian Spouse Sub-Working Group, where are the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Food and the Environment and the affected autonomous communities. We need to incorporate this debate in a much more real way in the Galician Parliament. And that's why we sincerely believe your amendment is a joke. In particular, I refer to point 1 and point 3. At the first point, they begin by saying, "Continue to focus 2018 on measures against the Tsunny Vespa," and they begin to list a number of actions that take place in the field of training, research, cheating, etc. And, obviously, this point makes you understand that you believe that what you're doing is enough, that you're already doing, that you're doing; everything we propose on this initiative that we bring today the three opposition groups are already doing. The data is there. A specific point: research, an agreement signed! In fact, do you think you're already investigating yourself in the fight against the Tiensin Vespa? They are clearly insufficient data and we need to really take this fight seriously, not just to give headlines. Point 3 doesn't really seem right either. And it has already been said that Members and all administrations must work on this coordination against the Chimpane Vespa, but what is needed is coordination. They're already working on the deputies, sometimes much more than the Galician Union itself. The only point that seems acceptable to us — as I have already commented — is point 2. Even though it had to be assumed a long time ago, we accepted it. In fact, we are going to request a point of order if you agree to vote on this point. And I'm going to finish. With this in mind, I ask you to leave the headlines, to really put in place effective measures; if you are both in rural legislation, you take serious measures to protect people who work, who generate jobs and who continue to dynamize our rural environment, and not just those propagandaes. The fight against the Chinese Vespa is not just about beekeepers and beekeepers, it's a matter that must occupy the whole of Galician society and that can't go on much longer because we have to put in place an integral plan right away. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo. On behalf of the non-proposing group of the Galician People's Group, Mrs. Raquel Arias Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u193	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to those who accompany us today from the rostrum. In the exhibition of motives, the three groups that were here speaking before me coincided in the belligerence of the plump species; in their remarkable adaptation to this medium, especially in recent years with the increase in temperatures; in the need to know the enemy better to know how to deal with it; in the convenience and need to inform and train those who work with the bees and bees, but also the population in general; and in the need for all the actions to be coordinated and unified. Considerations, which I say to you, we can only agree with them from the People's Group. And it also coincides that these considerations and proposals that you're making what you're going to say is that what you're doing in Galicia is going in the right line, because everything you're proposing, except for the massive trap, are measures that have been doing in Galicia since 2012. And I hope that we all agree too — and I'm sure that it is — that Vespa vespa came to stay with us. To say this and to affirm this is not that from the People's Party we put ourselves in cross arms waiting, but from the People's Party what we want to know is the reality of the problem, because just knowing what the reality is and how things are really going to be able to deal with it. Well, as far as the collaboration here was concerned, it must be pointed out that since the presence of the young lady was detected in 2012 — by the way, it is a pity that Mr. Villares is not, today he had a good opportunity to know the difference between the young lady and the young bird of the chestnut—... well, as we said, in 2012 the young lady arrived in Galicia and at the same time the Galician Union made contact with the Town Councils and also made contact with the owners of the hives and associations, and coordinately began to work. So in 2014 the Vespa Control Plan is already set up with four points: the distribution of traps for the capture of children, the withdrawal and inactivity of children, training and information campaigns and the implementation and signing of research agreements. Four things that you claim today that are already since 2014. The follow-up Commission shall be set up in 2015. Mr. Pérez Seco, you said in your argument that the follow-up committee should be put in place. A follow-up commission that has been underway since 2015, with the participation of three councils: the Environment, the Rural Environment and the Vice-Presidentship, as well as the municipalities. Now there are 106 municipalities represented. And as we said, and as you said, at the next meetings, as we have already talked about in the various committees, they will also - because we believe that this is also necessary - associations and the research part. And so it hits the massive trap. Well, you're talking here about 50,000 traps. Listen: What a coincidence!, the three groups say 50,000 traps; not 70,000, not 43,000, 50,000 cravadines! Will you tell me what scientific study they have to talk about exactly the three groups of the same number? Because the truth is that the data we have, the scientific studies we have, is that everyone can have access because they're public, there's not one person who advises you to make this massive trap, not one! And if we're wrong and you know them, it's good to put them on the table, it's good that they start talking about them, because we'd all be happy to accept it. Look, the German plan says you can't cheat massively. But that, yes, is being done from the beginning around the hives; cheat that is given to beekeepers in a completely free way, just like the attractive ones What does it not become massive? Because the attractive ones that are known so far are not selective, they catch all kinds of insects that pass by, also the native avespa, which is the natural predator of the mint. And, therefore, you who are so eco-friendly — so I congratulate you — and we too do a massive trapping would be a huge damage to biodiversity. It does not advise the Greek strategy, but it prohibits it from the state plan, which collects the experiences of the eight countries in which Vespa vtino and the autonomous communities are currently present. And, of course, you'll say, what are you going to do? The two of the People's Party logically agree and they tell us they don't. Well, no, because also the Basques say you can't cheat massively. And the French also say there can't be a massive trap. And the studies of the universities of Vigo — which the Union itself has agreements with the universities of Vigo and Santiago — because the studies of the University of Vigo, which have come to be known a few days ago, say that the massive trap is totally unacceptable. Because, look: in every trap and through every little tycoon that appears, there are hundreds of individuals who are not from Vespa type, and for every little tycoon that we kill, we're killing a hundred insects that are doing their work in the environment. Therefore, very careful to say cheerfully that of the massive trap. They also say the same studies that are being done, for example, by the scientific bulletin of the Galician Natural History Society in Ferrolterra. And a study recently published by Monceau & Thiéry, Frenchman, which reflects, among other conclusions, that in a study conducted in the French town of Andernos, where many traps were set up for a study that did the Town Hall, that same year it was found that there were many more Vespas, but that the number of children who appeared had also increased. By the way, the same thing that's been going on this year in the Town Hall of the Brain in the Navy is shining. So the massive trap is advised. We propose that when there are studies, and that's where we'll have to keep studying, an attractive one that's really specific to the young lady, of course we'll have to go to him. And you're talking about research. Look, there are contracts with the universities of Vigo and Santiago to investigate, universities that, as we say, are already giving the first results. But we don't stay there, right now, Interreg Sudoe is being asked for help from Galicia, the universities of Vigo and Santiago, from Basque, French, Portuguese research centers, and up to 20 more beneficiaries to jointly acquire help to study the Vespa Titina. In the course of the year, 21,000 children — in 2016, 11,000 children — were withdrawn and 60,700 booklets, 1,700 posters, 124,000 media insertions, briefings — all the service of the Middle Rural, technicians willing to give these talks where they are asked for — were distributed, more than twenty-nine training days, 1,100 trained people, so that beekeepers can also celebrate these days, aid to beekeepers, who increased by 35% this year compared to the previous one, and who can include food for the hives, since when suffering stress they do not go out looking for that food, and also to buy queen bees. In short, a set of measures that I'm sure are not enough, that will continue to work on them, that follow the line of everything that is being done in all the countries where there is Vespa quinine, and a help for which, logically, we do need the support of the deputies. You tell me, how many leaflets have made Members available?, how many training courses?, how many means can they take the children?, how many traps have they set up so far? Well, yes, the Lugo Deputy has just announced the candy and plate that she has an innovative method, says the mayor of Burela; then they will propose to the municipalities that if they want to be caught, which is something very innovative, something that has been doing in Galicia since 2014. Of course this was said by the mayor of Burela, and then the mayor of Castroverde, who thought they were still on congress, said, "Home!, no, it's better to shoot him with shotguns. So let's see if they agree. I sincerely believe that the best thing is for us to agree, that Members should get to work seriously, that they should not be afraid to coordinate with the Board, that they have been working on this for many years, that their duty is to advise the councils, to help the councils, because it is their reason to be, if not, what do we want them?, and that all together, with beekeeper associations, with all those involved, we work to minimize the effects of the Little Vespa. Because, we wish we were wrong, but what seems to be living with her is we're going to have to live with her. Let us therefore minimize the effects it produces. And, therefore, I cheat, but for now at the bounds of the hives, to minimize the damage that causes the hives. But I don't cheat massively outside, because we'd be doing a huge damage to biodiversity. And don't say Raquel Arias, tell him all the studies that have been known so far. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u194	Thank you very much, Mrs Arias. Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor on behalf of the groups responsible for the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u195	Thank you very much. We are not going to rule the war between the deputies and the Union, of course not, we call coordination first, but we can make a balance of the means placed and intentions above all, in the way we put them. I don't know who's got any more leaflets, nor who's spitting further, what I do know is that you need to put the batteries on, that the Galician board should put the batteries on. Look, as for the massive trap... I remember when we were fighting the bees' cock with tobacco smoke, and if it was stinging, it worked better. From there we moved on to a tremendous warning, which was the brigade. There were no barriers, the administration did nothing to stop her coming, and there were the Pyrenees, and then there were another series of measures that could delay at least the arrival. The beekeepers were looking for life, and the beekeepers were the ones who sought the solution for the manger and for many other things. So I think something about this has to say. And when beekeepers, who are the main ones or at least almost all of them are environmental balance activists, they talk about massive cheating, they know something. He didn't listen to neurotoxics either. In France they banned themselves, but not here, and the bees blew us up, they put in a tremendous biological weakness. Of course they take all kinds of insects, but at least what I see in the traps I'm putting on: they're not all kinds of insects in the proportion that I just said. Of course, they do appear on the crack, but they also kill them if we don't cheat on them. Let's see: the massive trap is to catch the queens when they leave hibernation. The more we take, the less children we have. And if we don't take them, what we're going to have is an incidence of huge children who will bring us in and kill us, and kill us in what way. Look, they monopolize the whole source of food. If you have a blizzard crying around the house, you'll see how as soon as that blizzard cries, that is, when it makes thumbs, if it fills with insects, but who monopolizes is the mint, which does not allow any other insect to access that food source. They want us to go species by species, to go to the periphery, to go to the masonry, to stay the round apple, perfect, you drop your hand and it's pure paper. That's what the young lady is doing. And we don't know how far it's gonna go! We don't know yet. Why? Because year after year it is manifesting itself with greater virulence, but exponentially, and it is necessary to put it on. It's necessary to put it down, because the disaster is not just in the crops, as far as they eat it, the disaster is pollination, the disaster is the balance, the disaster is massive, the disaster is tremendous. Look, there's cow's boobs slaughtered by the chinese, and there's already some specialist in that cure. And I'm talking to them about the real rural environment, the one we're suffering from, not those who watch it on television. And it's necessary to tell people of that real medium, that you don't have to know, which is a primary child and how a primary child is destroyed and when, and that it doesn't get rid of it, that you call people competent to do it. And it's necessary to do all this, because that's science. I know well that you support science, and scientific results -- I don't know the value of what you've mentioned -- agree when you're interested. Of course, but why haven't you really promoted scientific studies since 2012? Why? Because they've always been tow... yes, yes, they're always going tow what they're told and what they're told to face. Do it once, coordinate, do something! Because that "do something" is what people in the country are telling them every hour. Do something to eat my noodles. What do I do? Because such a round nest can also be of crab Vespa, and they're destroying themselves. Any nest of nespras that has cellulose looks like a plume, or people seem to think it's like a plume, and he lies with it, fire! and it's not, it's not, it's not. I would like to congratulate them on the passages with a glass of a villain, of a panxolin, which is very suitable for this government: "With a straw hat, / a Welshman to Bethlehem was, / while he loved the boy / he ate the hat the ox." Don't let us eat the hat of the ox!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas Cruz. You have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Group, Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u197	Thank you, President. Mrs. Arias, I don't know if the measures you've taken since 2012 have been effective or sufficient, we don't think. The distribution of traps, withdrawal of children, training and information campaigns and agreements, we think it wasn't enough, because the work is doing the municipalities with its own means. You give them a towel and suits, and nothing else. And massive trapping is something that we are being asked for both beekeepers and other affected sectors, which are the ones that are suffering from the serious consequences of the mint. As far as the amendment you tabled is concerned, I tell you that we cannot accept the amendment as it is because they put it at the first point "Keep on Inciding", and that would mean to continue the same and, as we explained, it's not enough. The Union should work more closely with the municipalities and associations, because they are making a great effort in the withdrawal of economic and human children. And the only collaboration that Junta is doing today is delivering earrings and suits. And that's not enough, because the same municipalities and associations are buying poison themselves. Look, we're facing a health problem, a social problem and an economic problem that doesn't stop growing. Therefore, it requires concrete measures and confronts them seriously; concrete measures and not declarations of intent that do not compromise resources. The scenario has changed, the climate change is here, we just spent a fall that wasn't as cold as other years, and so what it was working so far now requires more effort. It is necessary to prevent it and not leave this issue in the hands of climatology, and hope it'll be cold for the founding queens to winter. It is not enough, concrete measures, which I repeat: massive fraud, research, unifying efforts, training and prevention. So if they want to talk seriously and act firmly, let's talk and we'll get into a transaction. But, yes, what they're offering us is a mere statement of intentions, a fan who does, which is the usual, to which we've been used to. We're sorry, but we can't accept your amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Pérez Seco. The Parliamentary Group of En Marea has the floor to Mrs Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u199	Of course, the opposition groups say things that are similar or equal, because we listen to the sector. The only group in this parliament that doesn't want to listen to the sector, that doesn't want to hear a platform with a lot of associations and organizations is the People's Party. So that this is used as a truly ridiculous attack. Shame on you! You shouldn't even listen to the people who touch you at the door! Because the Government has at least the duty to listen to and respond to the people who are outside organizing and doing much more than the Government itself in this struggle. And as always — and we've waited for — in speeches never a minimum of self-criticism, everything is doing well, even doing everything we ask for on this initiative. If they are already doing so, because they vote in favour of this initiative, because we do not understand how everything is going to be done, except for the traps, and now they refuse to vote for one of the points on this initiative. It's a lie they're doing all these measures, it's totally false! potentiate the investigation. Reitera: a single agreement. That's the way to boost the research of the Chinese Vespa; since the year 2012 a single convention. Now they come to say they're going to sign more, sign us! But they're not boosting research; if they start their potential now, well, but they're not boosting it for now. Do you have any kind of communication with the deputies to coordinate, to see what lines of inquiry are being carried out? Do you have any kind of coordination with all the people who are leading up to these investigations? Not at all. Help line, one of the points we're asking for. What help are they giving, to whom, and when? Where's that help order? Training plan for the staff involved. Also, where is he? What training? Why do they say they're doing things that are totally false? One thousand seven hundred cartels is their plan for dissemination and socialization with the society of this problem. We're talking about the massive trap, and this one has the backing of many researchers. In some areas like France, which have much earlier than here, because the Vespa has arrived earlier, they point to this need. We discussed it for the kid. Obviously, we don't have time today, but at least they don't say it's not worth doing anything at all, without launching the research for this process, without launching any pilot project to see and evaluate whether the massive trap is necessary or not. Because the Vespa vespa vespa is trapping many more insects than trapping the traps. So don't play words games, don't try to divert attention by saying that traps catch insects. And does Vespa peep do, doesn't it kill our biodiversity, doesn't it kill many of these issues? They have a completely contradictory speech, and they say that, which they do, which is a priority for the humble Vespa, and then in budgets there is no specific euro for a plan to fight against the humble Vespa. From Marea we made an amendment, EUR 1 million, an insufficient amount, it was small, and they couldn't even approve this partial amendment. They refused even to approve this. And, as always, today they don't want to vote in favour because all they want to do is advertise and have a headline that says that the Galician Union has an absolute concern, that the Galician Union does everything to fight against the West Vespa. And that's why they refuse to approve this, because they have no real will to come up with a solution to this problem. And the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block has already commented: when the problem goes too far, when time passes and we have more misfortunes, then they will surely come and come out with a plan of shock against the West Coast with many measures — to see if thirty measures are against the fires, and they will pay many thousands of euros to spread all that they do for the West West. But no real measure for here and now, which we've been late since 2012. You get the batteries, and really, why don't you want to trade point 2? I repeat it again: why do you refuse to vote? We're willing to trade. Well, I see they've changed their mind, and I'm glad. Well, maybe they haven't changed their mind. Because of their gestures, they may change. Because we agree to compromise point 2, and we do not understand that there is any reason for them to vote against something that they theoretically agree with. And I'm going to finish. Really, if they bet on the rural side, they should approve the whole set of the initiative, because we need a comprehensive, comprehensive plan. The follow-up committee is obviously a fundamental point in this struggle, but it is not the only one. And really all the speeches of favoring and betting on rural then in practice you see that not a single euro to bet on such fundamental issues as this one we are debating here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u200	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union for the integration of the rail connection of the ports of general interest in the trans-European transport network, redesigning the layout of the Atlantic freight corridor, as well as the demands to be made to the central government in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u201	This non-law proposal was presented with the following amendment by the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u202	Mr. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u203	Good morning again. This non-law proposal reports a debate that has already taken place in this chamber on several occasions in connection with this freight corridor that should connect Galician ports with Meseta and Europe. And in the last two decades, there has been an investment in ports of enormous financial importance that has led to the emergence of two external ports that never existed before, complementing the remaining ports of general interest that continue to operate in Galicia. And it's normal for this to be so, we have a clear maritime location advantage and we're on the road between America and Europe and between Africa and Europe, and so it goes through the vicinity of our backs a very relevant proportion of the general maritime traffic. And this should give us an opportunity to have a stronger economy and to participate in this world's maritime traffic flows, which are growing at a very high rate because, among other things, the remarkable cost reduction. And today moving a cargo container from Shanghai to a European port is a very small fraction of the overall cost, and this undoubtedly favors that traffic. But a good part of that competitive advantage derived from our geographic location, which is an opportunity for the future, is clouded by two questions. Perhaps the most important, which can also be solved, is the first, which is the lack of intermodality. That is, the outer ports of the Coruña and Ferrol have no railway connection yet to this day, and the remaining ports of general interest — since we think of Vigo, Marín or Vilagaría — for neither. Which is a very remarkable deficit, isn't it? We make port terminals, but we don't give them a way out to the Meseta by means of transport as efficient as the railway. And this makes it difficult for them to have the proper volume of traffic. And so we see today as after a few years the accounts of these ports are not as satisfactory as they might be waiting for. But it's also true that port fragmentation makes this difficult, because it makes it difficult to concentrate traffic at some point in space to generate enough economies of scale to make sense of it by rail. The specializations of the ports today are very focused on short-distance merchandise trafficking. For in Ferrol, very related either to gas or coal, in any case with local traffic; in the case of Coruña, for liquid grains or seeds, etc., which also do not generate a great demand for railways. And this is a little bit of the vicious circle that must be broken. And it cracks by making a necessary investment, connecting by rail these ports to the relevant markets. And this allows you from there to modify the traffic specialization profile and move on to a different dimension. That's why this is so important that we're discussing today, that I hope you have a unanimous backing, if possible, from this camera. From the Atlantic axis they have been working on a proposal that consists of concentrating in Monforte traffics from different ports and going out by rail, connecting it — because this is already part of the design of the European network — with the European freight network at the height of Sale of Baths or Palencia. And it seems like an appropriate alternative. Monforte itself is very advanced, well, the logistics platform is ready. And there's also a missing connection via roads. We have PLSAN that works like an auxiliary logistics platform of the port of Vigo. And we have logistics platforms in the north that should play a similar role. To converge all those traffics in Monforte would give us enough power to make a profitable infrastructure of this kind. This is what this initiative is about, and I hope we have a positive response from this camera. This was already provided for in the documents approved by the Sectoral Transport Conference at the end of 2010; the sectoral conference in which Galicia participated the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo. I think I remember that at that time the councilman was Agustín Hernández, and he had a prominent participation and supported this design. In the Strategic Plan for the impulse of rail freight transport in Spain there was a basic network of commodities and prioritized terminals, and in Galicia there appeared The Coruña, Vigo and Monforte. And the basic network of railway goods designed, on the one hand, the Atlantic axis, and, on the other hand, the exits converging into Monforte and going out. And this was added in addition to the design of corridors, to the drafts of corridors until 2012 in European documentation. In 2011—I showed this map—the camera shows The Coruña-Xixion as references in the northwest. In 2012 the same reference appears. And only in 2013 do they disappear like such corridors, the corridors are no longer here. That disappearance occurs in 2013. After I made this statement in the Chamber it was published in some media that it was not and that it was still appearing in European documentation as of 2013. And what appeared was in the basic network, it's true; that is, in the basic network, it's still appearing on some maps -- I'll explain it now, because I have some reservations about it -- it's still appearing in the basic network, but not in the corridors. And what is financed primarily from the European Commission is the runners. And that's where the difficulty is. And this is happening in 2013. Another thing is what some people might say here in the House, without the possibility of giving you a reply, but the reality is that that's what it is. In the basic network if it appears, especially in Regulation 1316/2013, if a reference appears. A specific reference appears, which is fine, and I think we should use it as a basis on which to work to build our position. It appears at a certain point: Other sections of the basic network: —I say in Spanish, as it is—A Coruña-Vigo-Palencia, Gijón-Palencia. Well, show up. Perfect. I say that with some reservations, because, instead, in Regulation 1315/2013, which has an annex to which the knots appear when talking about railway terminals, appears The Coruña in maritime, but not in rail, appears Vigo in maritime and air transport but not in rail and only Monforte de Lemos, Ourense — it must be an error — within the global network, not even as a knot of the basic network, but rather the global network, within the global network. I mean, we have some difficulty there, but we're going to take it positive. If it appears in the other regulation, in 1316, forming part of the basic network, and this seems to allow us to fight. And that's where I have some perplexity. In other words, if Galicia meets with Asturias and Castile-Leon a few weeks ago, they take out a statement saying that they want to push this project — it's okay — then the Ministry of Development welcomes him well and says that he's going to fund from 2018, that there's no problem, but a few days later he says that it's not possible, that we have to wait until 2027, because the European Commission doesn't know what he said in relation to the fact that until 2023 there can't be a review of the corridors. But a European official then came — I have the press references here — and tell us: no, the European Commission does not think that the Monforte-Palencia connection is the priority, and the problems are in which the Council and the Ministry of Development do not prioritize this work. So the European Commission is telling us this is where the problem is. As the Galician Union — I heard the president — tells us that for them it is a priority, because the problem must be in the Ministry of Development, which is the one who says in principle that yes and then retreats back and says that there is a difficulty here. That's why we put the emphasis on two things at the initiative, namely, that Galicia tells the Ministry of Development that this work is a priority, that we must start Monforte-Palencia perfect, but then we will have to complement it as planned in the design since the year 2010 with the connection of ports, because this is what makes sense, and that we must also do everything possible to make this happen in 2018, so that in the next programming period of Community funds, that is, from the year 2021, we can already be funded this work and we can move forward...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u205	...in a much faster way and not wait for the programming period of 2028, which is a completely unacceptable delay. This is what we ask for, and we hope that it can — I say — be supported by the House as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u207	This theme of the Atlantic corridor we have to put on the list of humiliations and outrages to Galicia, such as AP-9, such as the Bivalvos Laboratory, so to speak of the latest things, such as increases in fuel prices, funding, etc. This is the image of the shame, of the outrage of this country. [[Mr. Bará Torres displays a map]] This is our role in Europe, with the collaboration of the Government of the State and the Government of the United States. This is how they want us in Europe: excluded. Don't you see, don't you? Then open your eyes, open your eyes, because with your eyes closed... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, today is here the Minister of Development and Mr. Feijóo, instead of bringing him these fair claims from the country, what is going to put the other cheek to carry more beatings than they've been carrying all these years, all these months, of Mr. Íñigo de la Serna and of the Government of the State. Because of course, the fact is that in the agreement of the European Parliament of 2013, November 19, 2013 — and I will not remind you of what the MEPs voted at that time — Galicia — and the port of Vigo as well, the port of Vigo as a nodal port — was excluded from this European priority network, as much as it appears in the base network; we would only be missing, we have trains and, above all, we would already be driven to disappear not only from the map, but also from reality. Well, that agreement adopted, with its votes, of the exclusion of Galicia, what it did was that it was excluded from priority investments, more than 23 billion, from the period 2014-2020. That's what their votes are for, to exclude the country. And of course, while the ports of Legions, of Sines, of Aveiro have guaranteed — as you see here — this connection, the Greek ports remain outside, and this is of extraordinary importance, because we are talking about the competitiveness of the country, the competitiveness of companies, the connectivity by rail to bring goods to Europe, because we export Europe, precisely to the European Union, 73% of our exports. Of course, now it turns out that in 2018 the European Union will approve a new priority funding period for the year 2021-2027, and the news that comes to us is that Galicia will again be excluded. Because, of course, in February 2017, the Ministry of Development excluded the area of nororest in the application for European funds for the Atlantic corridor. It was the Government of the State, the Ministry of Development, which did not make the request to be included. In the proposal sent by the Central Government to Brussels to request funding from the Connect Europe programme, Galicia was not included. And by many alharacas, by many photographs, by many institutional statements made by communities in the northwest, the Resoe, by many photos taken in Santiago or in Asturias or wherever, the reality is that we are excluded. Galicia was excluded for this period 2021-2027. And, in addition, he confirmed to the Minister of Development, on November 16, a gentleman named Carlo Secchi, who is the coordinator of the Atlantic corridor of the Trans-European Transport Network, who told him that Galicia would not appear. And it was the Ministry of Development, in addition, that made this information public in a press release saying that Galicia would stay for the next investment period; we're talking about 2028-2034. That's the deal in the Ministry of Development, with the complicity of Mr. Feijóo's German People's Party, given to Galicia. But, curiously, at that meeting it was said that priority would be given to connecting the cantabrian branch of roads. I don't know if that has anything to do with the origin of the Minister for Development, but reality is like that. BNG presents a series of amendments that complement the text. We are going to support it, although we do not have much faith in the outcome of these agreements, because we have taken a similar view on 21 June in this Parliament, unanimously, and you see the result you have already had. So we think it's not time for statements, it's time for mobilizations, besides, how other communities are doing, for example, the extreme, or the Mediterranean communities, to strongly claim their inclusion in this transport network. In any case, for us it will not be, we will support this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u208	Thank you, Mr Bará. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u209	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. We completely subscribe to the economic reading and the transcendence of Galicia's inclusion in the Atlantic freight corridor Mr. Leicega made, but, when he referred to the timeline of this event, we were excluded, because I cannot share it. He had already put the sale before the wound when he said that the spokesmen of the other groups would say what it was, but the reality, ladies, is that, when in October 2011 the revision of the Trans-European Transport Network was published, which had been negotiated from a long time ago, included, in what affects Galicia and the railway transport of commodities, the line that from León entered Galicia by Monforte and continued to Lugo and the port of Coruña, and also the port of Coruña. That included it in the basic network in 2011. The negotiation had been managed by the former Minister of Development, Mr. José Blanco, and it turned out that Galicia and all the northwest peninsula, as confirmed by the plan, the map that Mr. Bará had just taught, were excluded from the Atlantic corridor, included in the basic network, but excluded and outside the Atlantic corridor of freight transport. Even left the port of Vigo and the south of Pontevedra outside the basic network, and it was not until 2013 — that Mr. Leicega confuses us there with the 2013 Regulation — in which the port of Vigo is included, precisely because, as a result of a series of negotiations by Minister Ana Pastor, if he changes the layout of the basic network, he takes us to Ourense from Monforte and from there to Vigo and from Vigo to the port of Coruña. The difference between being in the basic network or in the Atlantic corridor is important. But, Mr Bará, the funds we don't get from the Connect Europe financial mechanism aren't because the People's Party hasn't asked for them. They're because the runners are prioritized, and you know that, and in fact, since 2014 the percentage that the European runners have received from this financial mechanism is 90% and only 10% has been assigned to the core network. So indeed, a big mistake, a big mistake, that 2011 negotiation that led us to be absolutely excluded from this corridor. The German railway network, of course, captures a minimum percentage of the goods that either originally or destined to enter or leave Galicia. And this is precisely because it needs a modernization that makes it more effective. The fact that we stay out of that plot of the Atlantic corridor leaves us at the edge of that modernization, drags our ports and prevents them from being competitive in relation to other ports such as those of the Basque Country or Portuguese of Legions. However, the integration of the railway infrastructures in the Atlantic freight corridor is essential for the competitiveness of our companies and our ports; ultimately, it is essential for Galicia's competitiveness and logistics capacity. That's why, Mr. Leicega, we celebrate your initiative, not because the Greek Government needs its impulse to include Galicia in the Atlantic freight corridor, which is already working in that direction. And he's working not only from the German Government, but looking for the joint action of other communities, specifically the Asturian and the Castle-Leon. But it's just that, in addition, you're also working to the extent that, as long as this review of the Atlantic corridor plot doesn't take place, aid increases to the basic network. The importance of including the railway line Palencia-Leon-Monforte which continues through Ourense to the ports of Vigo and La Coruña in the plot of the Atlantic corridor and the transcendence that would have for both the logistics knots of Coruña and Vigo as well as for the dry port of Monforte makes our interest to achieve the greatest unity and strength in defending this inclusion. And that's why we celebrate your initiative, because we hope to reach an agreement, an agreement that will strengthen the work of the German Government and also its joint action with the Asturias and Castile-Leon governments. But your proposal, Your Honor, must be reviewed, reviewed precisely to prevent the European Union from reaching an agreement that contains confusion as to what is the basic network, the trans-European network, and the layout of the corridor itself, because we understand that asking for things we are already in would lead us to thwart even that request. And the same is true of BNG's amendment, because they are demanding Galicia's inclusion in the Trans-European Basic Network, when we're already on the Trans-European Basic Network. It's all about including us in the Atlantic corridor. Point 3 suggests that the collaboration of other communities should be sought. Well, look, they're late, because it's already formalized. An institutional statement was formalized in October this year between the governments of Galicia, Asturias and Castile-Leon precisely demanding the inclusion of the northwest peninsula and its ports in the Atlantic freight corridor. In point 4 they claim that this is done or taken as a reference in 2018. In our amendment, what we propose is that this should be done in the first revision of the corridors that the European Commission does, in the first, but we can understand the importance of the year 2018 in these managements. Therefore, and on the other hand, we also believe that we must not only move this agreement to the European institutions, but also to the governments and parliaments of Asturias and Castela-Leon to continue to move forward in this common front initiated with that institutional statement I referred to earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Leicega, we hope that you will accept our amendment and thus be able to reach an agreement so that the Galician Parliament supports the action of the Greek Government by adding to the joint work of the communities of the northwestern Peninsula in the demand for their inclusion in the Atlantic corridor and, consequently...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u210	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u211	... and finished, Mr President, in claiming the resources necessary for the modernisation of our railway infrastructure. For our part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u213	Thank you, President. If I may, before I begin, I would like to say very quickly — I hope you do not cut me — with regard to the call to order you made before, that every time a spokesperson from the People's Party — I heard even in this House the President of the Galician Council do so — say that we finance Venezuela also make a call to order, because he's also taking out an illegality, and he doesn't. If you want to have the same measuring rod, as you call me in order, you must call them in order. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u214	It wasn't the same thing, but we're not going into it now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u215	I'm on it. The connection to the freight corridor — as we have talked about on a number of occasions — had enormous benefits for Galicia from the point of view of economic impulse — as we are now entering here — in the possible connection of the Greek ports on the network and the same ports connected to the European Transport Network. Because of the situation in Galicia, we are in a privileged position to become a power in Europe's commodity entry and exit logistics, but not only because of the economic impulse of the production model and progress in Galicia's economic development, but also from the point of view of the fight against climate change. The White Paper on European transport, already in its guidelines, points out that we need to increase — and much — the transport of goods by rail. At the moment, we are in a ridiculous 1% figure, when there are European countries that are in the 50 percent of their goods moved by rail. So from the point of view of sustainability, the fight against climate change, especially Galicia, which is the first CO2 station in the Spanish state and which we are the ones who contribute most to this climate change, we have to make the greatest effort to solve this situation. The People's Party is throwing balloons out with this issue, coming here now to see what time and whose responsibility it is to stay out or not to stay out, but we see what is happening right now, we see how messages from Europe come about that it is a priority to do this; it seems that in Europe they have a lot more interest in connecting Galicia with the European Network than the Minister of Development has. And in this situation the Galician People's Party — I will not repeat all the adjectives that Mr. Luís Bará has named — is making a total palm tree, is making a boy of the errands, as we saw this weekend, Mr. Puy, Mr. Feijóo is out in defense of De la Serna, going out in defense of Rajoy and praising the great behavior he is having fostering with Galicia. We've talked about how the road situation is, which is the absolute discrimination Galicia has with the investments of Development, we know all the conditions of AP-9, we have the highway with the greatest sinisterity of the state, we have the point of the entire road network of the state with the greatest sinisterity — four consecutive years the A-55 kilometer, we have the highest concentration of black spots on conventional roads, we can say that Galicia is the black point of the State road network, the state road network. In the railroad we know how we are. The destruction of the nearby train. We have a committee agreement from all groups to increase frequencies on the Atlantic axis, which is absolutely necessary, Monday, Thursday and Friday, which is not providing quality service to the citizenry, which is staying at the stations. We have a deal. Fómento has just removed the public service obligation and does not incorporate that agreement here in Parliament when it was budgeted at a very low cost, almost non-existent, demonstrating that this fantastic relationship we have with Fómento that Mr. Puy says does not give its fruit or that relationship is used for matters that have absolutely nothing to do with Galicia's interests. I have here a picture of what foster investments are, that encouragement that's getting along so well with Galicia. Last year he ran 40% of the budget. So when we talk about Galicia receiving a lot of investments, it's budgetedly yes, but not after being executed. We have 1,364 budgets in 2006 — the People's Party claims it — but then it executes 551, 40%. This year, the date of June, we have only 16% executed. That's the fantastically good thing she's behaving with Galicia. It is a pity that the People's Party of Galicia decides to be a militant of the People's Party on this issue, in all these important issues, to be a militant of the People's Party and of its own interests. By highlighting one of the proposals from the resolution — which is already time-consuming — it seems to us entirely appropriate and necessary point 5: to request the Government of Spain to transfer the demand to the European Commission, the European Parliament, the European Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, since Development has no interest, it seems that the People's Party in the State has no interest in solving this situation for Galicia, to see whether we, acting directly from here, from this Parliament, have achieved this objective. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u216	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Fernández Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u217	First of all, to comment on the amendments, I gave the groups a compromise proposal, both with the People's Party and with the BNG, which I hope will be accepted and which, in any case, will pass on to the president; as all the groups already know, we can avoid reading it. And then two or three very fast precisions. This reservation in relation to the year 2018. Of course, from the recent reading of the press because, at last, you did, that is, from November 17, that is, just a month ago, and the headline is, "He asked the central government to negotiate the northwest corridor in 2018." I mean, it's not us, it's the president of the board himself who says this, we have to negotiate it in 2018, and he says there's a "opportunity window" for this, "a window to negotiate with Europe the inclusion of the northwest in 2018." I mean, that's what Mr. Feijóo says. I suppose the People's Group will have no difficulty in supporting this. Take note, in mid-November, of what the European Commission's Director of Mobility, Carlos de Grandes, says: "It is Spain's competence to apply for investment". That is, the ball is on the roof of the central government, the Ministry of Development, to request this investment, which the European Commission — I said in another note, I have here — seems to you to be important, which is vital "the Monforte-Palencia train connection". If it is a priority for the European Commission, and they say, "Now it is the turn of the Spanish Government, which must promote this project through the relevant mechanisms", it is clear where the priorities are. And finally, just for the sake of need. There may be some difficulty, which the initiative itself recognises, in relation to the basic network, that we have eliminated later in the transaction, but you do: the Ministry of Development itself, also on November 16, tells us, "the inclusion of new frames in the basic network," and it refers to the Atlantic corridor, concerning the railway node. I mean, it's the ministry itself which has just confused us by making reference to this, because the ministry itself tells us it's: we can't renegotiate the basic network until the year 2023. Hey, but you say it yourself, but we're already in the basic network. Of course, the problem is the runners; indeed, the problem is the runners. And then I'm going to tell you: in 2011 The Coruña-Gijón connected, another network of corridors, it's in 2012, it's still being and it falls in 2013. When it falls it's in 2013; 2011 and 2012 are the runners. Indeed, in 2013 what is produced is a recomposition of the basic network additional to this, but in 2013 that connection between A Coruña and Gijón with the Atlantic corridor falls. I hope that, despite this, we can have a unanimous position which reinforces the possibility that this important infrastructure will be financed and that we will come to an agreement. I take advantage to wish you all good parties and good year next year, which is my last intervention — I hope — this year in the middle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u218	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. And so do you. We shall proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u219	We begin by voting on the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Pazos Couñago. Amendments to other groups are not accepted. We vote. Vote of the Non-Legal Proposal, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government, as well as the concessionary company of AP-9, to improve the quality of life and minimize the impact of the various communication infrastructures in the parish of Chapela, in the Town Hall of Roundola. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u220	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Noa Presas. There are no amendments. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members, on the request by the Greek Government to the Ferroatlantica-Ferroglobe group for the maintenance in Galicia of all investments and jobs derived from the manufacture of solar silicon, as well as the realization of the actions necessary to promote development in the autonomous community of the entire production cycle. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u221	We are now voting for the non-legislative proposal of Mrs Amigo, of the People's Parliamentary Group. The amendments were not accepted. We vote. Voting of the Non-Legal Proposal, by G. P. Popular of Galicia, on the initiative of D. Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members, on the impulse by the Galician Board of Measures to Endowment in Public Bathroom Buildings adapted for ostomized patients. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u222	We are now voting for the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Lago. Accept the amendments. We vote. Vote of the transactional text of the Non-Legal Proposal, by G. P. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogongo, on the demand to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government in relation to the authorization of Audasa from the rise of tariffs in the fees of AP-9 for 2018 and those of the following years, as well as the preparation by the Galician Union of a study of the viability of the concession for its public management. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u223	I would now vote together, but we have to vote on them individually; we have to discuss them together and we have to vote on them individually. We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the Thin problem. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, on the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to halt the progress of the presence of the Taiwanese bird in Galicia and the establishment of biological fighting mechanisms against that species. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 37 The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u224	We now vote the same as the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which does not accept the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the Non-Ley Proposition, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco and Mr José Antonio Quiroga Díaz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the realization in 2018 of a massive trap against the small bird, to deepen research and eradicate this species, as well as to address the damage caused in the apicola population and to include the representatives of the sector in the follow-up commission The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u225	Finally, we voted in favour of the En Marea Parliamentary Group, which said something about accepting the vote by points. Mrs. Quinteiro? He didn't accept either. [[Refusal.]] Then nothing. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, by G. P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. David Rodríguez Estévez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the launch in 2018 of a shock plan for the control of the populations of the plume, the effective functioning of the follow-up commission and the opening of lines of inquiry in this regard, as well as the opening of a specific aid line to alleviate the losses suffered by beekeepers The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u226	Finally, we voted for the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga. There's a transaction proposal, which knows all the groups, so we're voting on this transaction proposal. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Xoaquín María Fernández Leicega and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia for the integration of the rail connection of the Greek ports of general interest in the Trans-European Transport Network, redesigning the layout of the Atlantic freight corridor, as well as the demands to be made to the Central Government in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67. The voting is positive. This text was therefore approved unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u227	We suspended the session until 4:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u228	Good afternoon. We resumed the session, with point four, interpellations. Let's start with what you've commented on, which is a change in the agenda. Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and six other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the recovery of the working conditions of the self-employed public sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u229	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u230	Counsellor, yesterday it was the trade union organizations that, in front of this House, in front of the gates of the Galician Parliament, questioned him, called upon the Government of Greece, questioned Mr Feijó's Government about public employment policies. Today we, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, are asking for it, as was the case at the end of 2016 on precisely the occasion of the budget debate for 2017. And we reminded you, Mr Counsellor, as the statement of reasons of Law 1/2012 of 29 February, of temporary measures in certain matters of public employment in the Autonomous Community pointed out precisely the temporary nature of this law, so its vigil was always subject to the existence of the difficulties and difficult economic circumstances that affected the sustainability of public accounts. And the adoption of these measures was part of — and still forms part of — of the policy for reducing public spending agreed upon by the Central Government in that 2012 bill package of decrees, which have done so much damage to the whole and the quality of basic public services, in an equally intense manner in Galicia, both in health and in social services, dependency, education and justice. Under Law 1/2012, the German Government — we remind you, Counsellor — has applied to all self-employed public employees, to all employees, to all employees, to more than 85,000 self-employed public employees, to the following cuts in their labour rights. First of all, economic penalties for a situation of temporary disability. And yesterday precisely the People's Group supported a motion, tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, trying to eliminate this discrimination between staff in the service of the Administration of Justice and the judicial authorities, whereby we understand that the work line to be followed by the Government of Greece must be precisely that equalization of circumstances by suppressing that economic penalty also for the rest of the whole of self-employed public employees. Secondly, the abolition of aid from the Social Action Fund. Thirdly, the restriction of the right to prolong residence in the active service by fulfilling the age of compulsory retirement, which is precisely a measure that has had pernicious consequences and that is having pernicious consequences on certain groups, and in an equally appointed way we could say in the health field of medical groups. The unilateral suspension also, in fact, of several articles of the V Collective Convention on Self-Employment, which could in one way say that we should highlight the unilateral suspension of Article 19 on weekly breaks, which are affecting more than 12,000 public workers; or restrictions also imposed on the provision of jobs and mobility. Mr Counsellor, as some trade union organization — certainly nothing suspected of radicalism — has said, the adoption of Law 1/2012 has brought about a controlled flight —in — of collective bargaining in the field of self-government. In the area of wages yesterday, because of the budgetary debate and because of the debate of the Law on Measures, it was stressed that after the 2010 wage reductions, and 2012, and not in line with or satisfied precisely with this reduction in salary expenditure, President Feijóo made the decision, exclusively in Galicia, to reduce the years 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 precisely the wages of employees, of the 85,000 public employees, on an average annual of 5%, by means of — we know — either of the specific supplement or of an equivalent concept, which is assuming an average accumulated loss in the wages of self-employed 14%. And as we have repeatedly said in last year's debate — and we hope that in the budget debate for the 2019 accounts we will no longer have to discuss it in this sense — this whole short-term report by the Self-Government, by the Government of Mr Feijóo — much more intensive in pay matters, as we have said, that in the rest of the Spanish public administrations, we certainly present a balance — and we continue to insist — that the basic public services in our Autonomous Community, contrary even to that balance to one of the very principles of Law 1/2012, which was trying to achieve that balance without undermining the provision of essential public services and preserving the principle of solidarity between the citizenship of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. We have also said and insisted that we are not really in the face of a set of measures — if — initially temporary but of simple reduction of public expenditure, of purely technical measures, of simple administrative measures, of budgetary measures, but rather of a whole package of measures that respond precisely to policy-oriented policies, policies designed to undermine precisely the public sector and public services, policies that effectively seek to reduce the capacity of the State, of redistributive action of the social state, of the welfare state; that state of well-being, as I think yesterday my colleague Abel Losada mentioned with words from a president that we should forget, as President Aznar was, himself of a complex of inferiority. I mean, these are words that denote exactly what the intentions are of who is ruling at every moment. And also policies that throughout this systematic process try to de-regulate and precisely facilitate new areas of privatization of public services within this current absolutely liberalizing and individualizing trend of people's problems, of social problems, which are once again addressed — as we say so many times — from a vision of beneficence and abandoning the protection and fair social redistribution. To discredit, deregulate and privatize is precisely the systematic process that follows austerity policies, which must end. And some data, Counselor, we'll see in this direction. We could say that from Thatcher, passing through Reagan or passing through Troika and arriving at today's tax reform of Trump, you could be an advantaged student of those policies. And we were also talking and talking yesterday — our spokesperson — about what is the result of all these policies or what is I don't know if the consequence or really the cause of the termination of the social contract. Because, as I said and spoke yesterday, Counsellor, it is necessary to claim that this social contract must be recovered if we want to avoid further widening the gap in social inequality — especially serious in Spain, for all the data that are coming out and, of course, in Galicia — with this crisis exit dynamic only for a few. Mr. Counsellor, you know better than we, of course, than the General Budgets Act itself of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2018 paints a very different macroeconomic scenario from the accounts for 2018. And we have to remind him once again of what was said in the Law's own unique final provision 1/2012. He said that the measures provided for in this law will be reviewed within a maximum of two years from the entry into force of two parameters: one, the actual gross domestic product of Galicia and the other, the primary savings. Real gross domestic product of Galicia 2012, -2.8%; 2013, -1.6%; 2014 —first positive data—, 0.7%; 2015, 3.2%; 2016, 3.4%; and 2017 forecasts closing around 3.2%. Second parameter: the primary savings; the difference between current income and expenditure, discounted the interest-debt expenditure: 2012, -122 million; 2013 — positive data—, 67 million; negative data in 2014; in 2015, 204 million; and 2016, 449 million. If these two parameters were the ones that justified the approval of Law 1/2012, after six years and three positive data, Counsellor, there are no more excuses than the derogation precisely from Law 1/2012, which would really mean the recovery of labour rights, beyond strictly economic or remuneration, for more than 85,000 self-employed public employees. If you really have that commitment to public services, and especially the basic public services of those who are talking about in the explanatory statement of the Budget Act adopted yesterday in this House with the only votes of the People's Party — which is true that they have a large majority of their surplus but which denotes precisely the inability to reach a more comprehensive agreement on public accounts if it really is emerging from a crisis not only in macroeconomic terms but in order to reach all people, all families — if — as I say — that bet on public services is clear, the vault key or — in other words — the proof of cotton from that recovery should be in a almost symbolic way the derogation from Law 1/2012. Yesterday the trade union organizations and the central government reached an agreement to fix for the period 2018-2020...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u231	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u232	...the minimum interprofessional wage. Counsellor, you sit precisely with the trade union organizations, sit with the representatives of public employees, have that ability to engage and recover precisely the public services, which are the spinal cord, and are the fundamental marrow to ensure the state of well-being in our Autonomous Community. If that's your commitment, you should do it, even following the people's own recommendations in your reports last year, which insist on drawing that scenario...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u233	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u234	...of necessary recovery. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u235	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u236	Mr. President, Your Honor, good afternoon. First of all, I would like to remind you that the adoption of Law 1/2012, of 29 February, of temporary measures in certain areas of public employment, was absolutely necessary because it was adopted at one time — let me remind you — in what we were in the biggest recession in decades of the deficit, that it was at 9%, with a risk premium above 600 points, with Spain on the edge of the rescue, which caused the European Union to apply the excessive deficit procedure, with unemployment reaching unsustainable figures and with a private sector where companies closed or left their employees on the street or had temporary EREs with reductions in newspapers and wages. The German Government was responsible for approving this law at that time. This law fulfilled its task, which was nothing but to safeguard the sustainability of the basic public services that we lend to citizens. And we did it without putting any employees on the street, thus giving priority to stability, but also to quality in employment, throughout the whole phase of the crisis, rather than many other administrations. Evidence of all this is that Galicia during the crisis is the community that kept its number of troops more stable, because there were no lay-offs or we made use of the possibility that we had to reduce the day-to-day, for example, of the interim staff, as other communities have done. In Galicia, then, what we were looking for was the quality of employment. Other administrations governed by the PSOE even lowered 10% a day and wages to temporary employees, while we treated all the employees alike. And when it began to improve the economic situation, the Greek Government has negotiated, with representatives of public employees, improvements, both strictly wage and non-wage, as I will mention in a moment. Your Honor, in your inquiry, you ask us to repeal Law 1/2012; well, let's talk about this law because, in fact, it regulates eight aspects. In the first place, when it comes to the temporary disability benefit contained in our law, it has already been regulated on a basic basis by the State through the Royal Decree Law 20/2012. I must tell you that Galicia is fully recognizing what basic regulations allow. Secondly, in the social action benefits of staff members, we have maintained and maintained aid of greater social value, which supports families living with people with disabilities. We even maintain aid which per beneficiary can reach up to 2,160 euros. And let us keep it — I repeat it again — because we consider it essential; but, on the other hand, while still recognizing that it is important others, we do not see that priority at the moment. As for the extension of the stay in the active service while at the age of forced retirement, as well as temporary disability, it is also regulated by the state basic legislation. Furthermore, this law does not mean that it ceased to exist, but rather that what was previously automatic and general is now regulated in a procedure, which, by the way, has already changed in May 2016. Therefore, the Union has followed and continues to grant extensions of stay in the service, but, in public employment, this extension has to be correlated and balanced in terms of equity with the possibilities of access of young people, in particular high qualification, as there can be in sectors as significant as within health as the collective of optionals. Fourthly, the law provides for the suspension of the popularly known abortion as "more high office". I suppose, Mr. Villoslada, you won't ask me to derogate this measure. Fifthly, on the working day, which was regulated in this law in thirty-seven and a half hours, it was also regulated in the same way in the state basic legislation. This case has just been resolved last week by a judgement of the Constitutional Court, considering the 35 hours of the Autonomous Community of Andalusia as non-constitutional for violating the rules laid down by the State. Sixthly, as regards the regulation under the V Convention for its staff, in which certain paragraphs were suspended, I suppose the most important thing to you is Article 19, which regulates the travel and rest regime of this collective. Well, in this respect, I want to tell you that, at this moment, this question humbly believes that it is guaranteed and normalized with staff shift organizations through two measures: firstly, there was a strong job creation, already in 2016, nothing more and nothing less than 151 new squares for social policy centres; and, secondly, there was an accommodation of the posters to reduce the consecutive working days and also to increase the rest each employee deserves. Management measures have allowed the framework established in that law to be overcome because they have allowed the possibility to enjoy the days of personal affairs that they request without being conditioned by service needs and, at the same time, what is being produced is a drastic fall in litixiosity in the field of working days. In addition, last year we reached an important agreement with the trade union organizations for the progressive implementation of an offer of operationalization of social policy workers. Through functionalization, we will promote the progressive confluence and approval of working time conditions and the day-to-day of the collectives who perform their work in services of continuous operation. The aim is only to overcome the particularities of the day-to-day work which were included in the collective employment agreement. In seventh place, you mention the relative supply of mobility jobs, but you make it very strange that you want to derogate it. I don't know if you know that what this law sets is a mechanism to prevent workers affected by the consolidation of employment that they approved at the time of the Bipartite from losing their jobs if another worker applied for it. Since then, 4,178 squares have been held in competitions and no one of the 670 beneficiaries has ceased. I suppose you won't propose me again to repeal this measure contained in the law. I think this... I don't know if you proposed it to the unions or even your party. And the eighth of the measures was that the law had enabled a remunerative management of the executive staff; that it had enabled, among other things, that no executive could have a higher salary than that of the president of the board. It also gives me the impression, Mr. Villoslada, that you, in fact, do not want to override this regulation as it is. In short, of the eight measures that regulate this law, three are regulated by basic state rules; three gives me the impression that you don't want to repeal them; and two are out of practice. And if we talk about wage recovery, you should know that it is in force, as I said before, the Budget Stability Act, which limits the increase in expenditure on wages, and that the Kingdom of Spain has not yet come out of the excessive deficit, of what I have also told you at first, which also sets certain restrictions. But in any case, and within our capabilities, we have been in Galicia for more than two years with a recovery of salaries from public employees, and we have done so, in most cases, above the rest of autonomous communities -- because this community has that solvency that you also referred to in your intervention -- and as soon as we were empowered by the state to do so. At all times we meet the criteria for making use of our autonomy and being the first community that started and completed the return of the extra payment approved by the Central Government in 2012. In addition, we have been forwarding a year about what is expected at the meeting of the resumption of the full payment of the surplus to the Greek public employees, who are already charging it since January 1st 2017. Last July we approved, with speed, the salary increase, with retroactive character, of 1% of the payrolls of the public employees in Greece. And we want to continue on this path, improving the economic remuneration of the Greek public employees. Mr Villoslada, yesterday, you, freely voted against budgets, which actually reserve EUR 80 million to raise the salary to public employees as soon as we have the state legal capacity to do so. The Greek Government does everything in its hand to improve the salaries of public employees, and I repeat to you those 80 million in these budgets that you have refused. But there are elements, apart from this Greek government, such as the institutional blockade, that currently prevent the adoption of budgets in the State by 2018. We must be consistent, Mr. Villoslada. Do you want the salaries of public employees to go up? We, too. Are you willing to ask your colleagues in Madrid to facilitate the approval of the budgets for 2018 and, in this way, to raise wages again to the Greek public employees? So let me make a small recommendation: if we want to be useful to our workers, where it belongs to you, I should tell your colleagues in Madrid. I'm waiting for your answer, Mr. Villoslada. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u237	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u238	Yes, thank you again, President. Counsellor, when we ask that this law be repealed, what we are asking is that a legislative measure of this House be repealed, which symbolizes, in that year 2012, on the basis of the basic laws of the State, with the central government precisely the policies for cutting public expenditure. Another thing is that certain measures of that law have to remain in force and are incorporated into the ordinary general regulations of autonomous public employment, because that gives legal certainty. Of course we're not advocating for the recovery of the plus of high charges, since, in our previous interpellations and questions, when we request the derogation, we ask for the derogation of the whole law minus that point, and you know it perfectly. Of course, we are not asking that the salary structure of the executive staff not be ordered; what we are asking is that a symbol of the welfare state cut-off in Galicia, which is the cut-off of public services in Galicia, should be incorporated into the ordinary general regulations governing public employment, those other aspects that have to remain in force. He knows it perfectly. It's not worth creating a problem and then saying that other people's problems are solved. But, as you're talking about quality of public employment, I'm going to give you some data so you can confront that opinion, because it looks like we're between Bavaria, as we say so many times, and Silicon Valley, here in Galicia, also in terms of public employment; and I think it's not. Public employment temporality data in Galicia are around 14%: below 13% in education, but above 20% in health care. Galicia was the fifth autonomous community in public employment destruction between 2010 and 2015: 5% against the state average, of 3.7%. Galicia, by the way, is the autonomous community which is worse off paying the staff of the categories to which university qualifications are required, as you know very well, to those Greeks. Third quarter of 2017 EPA data: Galicia lost 17,000 jobs in terms of public administration employees — all including Galician Union. Of 185,000 public servants, 60% are self-employed. There are 45,000 temporary jobs: 25% of the timeliness in Galicia of public employment, 1 out of every 4 workers. By the way, because of the restriction of restorative rates and recovery disability, 3 out of every 10 public employees and public employees are over 55 years old. Over the next ten years, 50,000 public servants were employed in Galicia. Something has to be done, Counselor, so that this doesn't go that way. In health, social services and education — data from the EPA in the last quarter — the hours worked grew by 4.5%, but the cost of the hour worked in health fell by 7%. And there is a fact that can really be responding to these policies, which are defaulted from a more neoliberal perspective — as we know, they are legitimate, voted by citizens, but they have a result on the welfare state —: there is a transvasion of the occupation of the public sector to the private sector, in the period 2011-2017, of what I would say is more than striking. In education, in public education, the hours worked 6 per cent were reduced and the people occupied 7.8 per cent were reduced. In private education, the hours grew by 18% and the occupation grew by 19%. In public health, in that period, it is true that the number of people employed grew by 2%, but with a 12% temporality rate, when in private the increase in occupation was 18%. Some more — in this case, I suppose there are no suspects of interpretations of this data from the Central Register of the Staff, the Ministry of Business and Public Service —: in the total public administrations in Spain, there were 2,698,000 public employees in 2010; in 2017, there are 2,523,000 public employees in the country as a whole, when the European Commission had already said that Spain, in 2012, was among the ten countries of the European Union with less public employment expenditure on GDP. With regard to the fall in public employment, the fall in education is particularly significant. And we also have to worry in a very important way about the fall in public employment in local authorities in that period: in that five-year period, they lost local entities 3,500 public employees, when, in addition, they have, with the data we're seeing from some research groups, a rate of timeliness of more than 40%. By the way, we have lost 1,500 R & D troops, according to INE data, in the period 2010-2015; I am not surprised that Galicia is among the eight autonomous communities with less investment in R & D over GDP across Spain: 0.87%, compared to the average of Spain, 1.1%; and even the first four are between 1.4% and 1.9% of R & D investment commitment, which also means commitment, in hiring investigator staff. Article 19 of the Convention, literally suspended, is punishing in a very important way, in the area of weekly rest, in rights, in health, in equal pay, for example, the whole collective, virtually complete, of women, in social policy, in the Council of Social Policy, and they know. Not even Sergas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u239	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u240	...is using the weekly rest criterion that way. The functionalization agreements, the stabilization agreements, are just for now wet paper, while they don't feel negotiating. We saw, as I say, an unfair inequality, an unfair escape from the crisis. I, paraphrasing Professor Antón Costas, because we betrayed the collation, precisely, the words and the last book of him, The end of the confusion, Counselor, I speak of a new social contract for Galicia to work. We bring the Law 1/2012 because it has a lot of symbolism. Take back precisely the lost time for the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks. That's why we are presenting a motion, to articulate all these measures for the recovery of public employment in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u241	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Close this interrogation, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u242	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mr. Villoslada, I thank you very much for the first and second intervention. The first is a little more general, the second with a little more metric. But let me tell you, with all due respect too, that everyone here seems to be talking about his book. You put on approximations and then you also say you were measuring wood in precision scales. I'll try to weigh wood. And I'm going to mention, the amounts I'm going to give, the official data of the ministry. I'm not going to put a hand on the generality of public employment in Galicia, I'm going to focus on what we have here to try to override a fundamental thesis that was already heard yesterday, that I couldn't intervene for other reasons, but I'd like to sit down, when from the opposition benches — in this case of the Socialist Party — they talk about cuts. But first of all, we found what was Law 1/2012, which were measures of temporary wage adjustment. We had to generate the solvency enough to reverse those measures, we didn't disappoint him as soon as possible. And as soon as we were qualified, we increased wages. But here you can't stay the nebula of "without trade union negotiation." The trade unions themselves are perfectly aware of the more than twelve major agreements we have reached over the past three years, with the majority — and even at all times — of trade unions in wage matters, in terms of selection and provision. Remember what I recently supposed to sign with more than three trade unions the Stabilisation Plan by 2020, data that you also used in the wrong way. In all my respect, once again by handing out the data from the Ministry of Farming, Galicia is the second autonomous community that presents a lower rate of interimity. Why? Because during all these years we have been taking advantage of our possibilities of summoning job offers. There are autonomous communities at this time that have been in the last nine years without convening a square. So our results are Spain's second best after the Community of Navarre, theme number one. Theme number two. When you refer to clippings, if we compare the official data, we had, in 2008, 86,858 troops; in 2017, 87,262 troops. But besides, if we did that comparison, those plus 404 troops we have right now in the autonomous community, it's not 85,000, it's 87,262. If we left 85,000 sure it would give us negative. Let's go parts too. If the comparison to be made by sectors, it turns out that in the field of health, where we are often talking about cuts, we have 1,392 additional personnel. In the area of social services, as I told you earlier, in the administrative field, 155 in 2016. But if we consider the Social Services Consortium, we have more than 300 squares. When we talk -- and here in this House if you've talked recently too -- why aren't the numbers put on the table in the field of justice? In the field of justice there were 2,570 people in 2008, and now there are 2,768, 198 more. Therefore, in those services you mean so much, you cut nothing. Theme number one. Theme number two, the other way to measure, when we talk about public employees, is to measure the expenditure that public employees represent. If we take the cost data, which we also talked about yesterday, about public employees, what credit and what it is about spending, I'll give you an advance on the closed December payroll. It turns out that in homogeneous terms, for the second consecutive year, we have a higher expenditure than would be comparable to the year 2016, which, if you remember — I spoke to you too — increased by 1%. It turns out we have EUR 25 million more in chapter I expenditure. It turns out that in health we have EUR 11 million more in health than we had in comparable spending. It turns out in education we have 13 million euros more than we had last year. The result, the result, the result. Therefore, the tactic of this breakdown of the social agreement that we have among all is not based on reality; there are no such cuts of what you talk about with such joy, in my understanding. Because besides — and I don't want to go either — we look at the other side of the coin, which is the services that we provide, and we look at, for example, that in public employment -- I want to repeat it -- there are more than 7,000 places that we have convened over these years, and some have not called the first; in transfer contests, more than 7,000 squares; in voluntary partial retirement we have already taken 800 beneficiaries. In time flexibility in teleworking, more than 9,000 beneficiaries. We returned Spain's first days of vacation and free disposition according to antiquity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u243	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u244	We have just approved it and we will continue there because it has always been ours, from the sufficient basis that gives us control over public finances, through trade union negotiation. But negotiating does not mean always giving reason, because we only — believe me, really — have a goal, which is to greatly appreciate what our public employees do in the different fields of activity, both in essential services and in those who are not so much. And if we continue to work with social dialogue forever, to continue to improve the performance we owe our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u245	Thank you very much. Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and four other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Greece on the environmental regeneration of protected areas affected by forest fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u246	Mrs Vilán has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u247	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Counselor, you have the questions of the written interpellation. We really believe that this interpellation is not only about the regeneration of the mountain in protected areas; we probably have to ask more questions throughout the interpellation, and it's likely that their response might be even more dull. It goes further, it reaches the conservation of protected natural heritage in Galicia; it reaches the problems of climate change, drought, rain, fires in the Ancares and in the Jurés, which we understand are the direct and indirect consequence of climate change; even the drags of ash to the rivers and wetlands; and essentially also to the possible death of the fauna that is in the rivers, which are ultimately also protected areas. In this broad vision, the Galician Natural History Society has done an analysis of the state of nature in Galicia, about the Greek biodiversity and about the use of protected spaces, and what the Galician Natural History Society says, which is an entity, an association, renowned enough to be able to make serious reflections, is that the Greek public administrations have an absolute disinterest in the natural spaces and the natural heritage of Galicia. For this society, the example is the state of abandonment of the few interpretation centers we have in our autonomous community and the anarchic use of natural spaces. You seem to be boosting the use of natural spaces through parties and fun areas; you yourself were in Corrubedo with the president of the board, where you had included stage and pulp. So with this broad vision, we understand that we need to talk about climate change, drought, a wave of fire, rain, because they all have affected protected areas and they all affect their regeneration. A few months ago Greenpeace also warned of drought and rain deficits in Spain, essentially — Greenpeace said — in the northwest, if there is no political ambition to curb climate change. They speak of Galicia because Galicia is especially not prepared for continuous drought, as is the case in other areas of our peninsula. In the last Councils of the Union, its council issued a report on the drought alert situation in Galicia and the problem of combating climate change. The problem is that the situation of coroners is very worrisome, and if the water level is low, the water quality can also decrease, and that's going to affect the wildlife of the protected areas, even if it's just to get started. We know that fires in these protected areas, mainly in the Anchors and the Juries, have caused terrible environmental damage. In October alone, Jurés had been burning for more than fifteen days when it was that terrible wave of fire that Sunday. And when we registered this initiative, we had no news, no data, about the total number of razed areas. Then yes, the data you gave was 23% of the burning on Natura Network, a total of 11,400 hectares -- I don't know if you have new data or not now -- and a 7% that took the fire from the Ancares Reserve. Ecological damage is terrible, it's very serious, and we don't know about environmental regeneration. Some time ago, we said it was predictable that at the time of rain, there would be runoffs, severe erosion processes, and that they would disappear alone by drags in larger pendant sites. There was on the social networks the day it rained so much, the Sunday it rained so much -- since we spent a Sunday of terrible fires on a rainy Sunday -- a lot of videos hung by people very close to the Jurés in which it was seen that the water was driving the butterflies and falling through the pendants without any kind of control, because the floor didn't swallow the water. The drags from these upper areas, and the pollution, as a result, of the aquifers and rivers up to the creeks, we are concerned. We're also concerned about threatened species, of which we know nothing, there's no evidence of extinction during the fire strike. We're worried about the whole trees, and we don't know anything about the extinction data during the fire strike, we don't have specific data from his counsellor about protected areas. So we find it very difficult to perform any kind of environmental regeneration work if these data do not exist or at least are not public. Fifteen days ago, as I was saying, we had Anna passing through Galicia, and as a result there were ash trawls, there was tinkling in the waters of the rivers and rivers of a chocolate color, and we know that this can seriously and significantly affect Galicia's rivers, especially Vigo's stream, because it was that in its environment it had a higher volume affected. The laughs are protected spaces, and the devastating effect of the ashes we know... we suppose, we don't know, I hope you tell us whether these ashes were actually the subject of a special recovery plan in these areas, because the effect of the ashes, coupled with torrential waters, can have a devastating effect on the primary sector, mainly on seafood production. In the media, just a week ago, we knew that the Council of the Sea has activated a special monitoring and evaluation device for areas that can be affected by the arrival of ashes, especially in the most sensitive places, and I consider it more sensitive not because it is this area, but because it is, not only the Vigo River area, but specifically the fall of the Verdugo River, between Arcade and Ponte Sampaio. The situation is very worrisome and you don't see it, Counselor, you don't go out in the media. Probably in Coruña yes, but in the rest of Galicia, talking about how the regeneration of protected areas is going to be done, the truth is we don't see it, advisor, and we have no data on what effects they are causing, what regenerating work you've done between the fires and the rains, and we don't know if there's a specific budget game for exactly these purposes. And we believe, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that we should know. So in addition to the written questions you have, we would like to ask you whether you can specify the environmental damage caused by fires in the protected areas of Galicia and how many thousands of hectares have been burned, because when you showed up at the budget show you didn't give any data because you said you didn't have them yet. If there were erosion processes in the burned areas. If as a result of the rain they disappeared soils by trawling in the most pendant areas; we speak mainly of Ancares and the area of the Jurés. If aquifers and rivers were contaminated until the laughs came. If you're going to design an urgent environmental regeneration plan or if you've already done it, because you've had time, from the fire wave and Ana's rain. If you have an economic memory, if you have that plan. What happened to threatened species, if they've been accounted for. If there's any regenerating plans, and the same with the trees. If you've planned to restore basic service supplies to protected areas, or if they're already restored. What effect is causing gray remnants to fall, and what is this device. If you talk to the sea councillor, what's the surveillance device and the assessment of the drag of land and ashes that you say they're on the move. We wait for him to answer us, it's eleven questions, and then we'll go to the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u249	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Mrs Vilan, welcome to the concern and talk about the issue of the fight against climate change, something that this Government has done for the first time and something that it does in particular this advisor, since I was the first advisor to call a specific general direction for climate change and the first one that goes ahead with a strategy that is now being developed specifically to talk about all measures that, from all councils, we must implement, and even from society as a whole, in the fight against climate change. If we want to talk about drought, if we want to talk about water, if we want to talk about energy, if we want to talk about agriculture and gain, if we want to talk about biodiversity, and, of course, I think that with regard to the interpelent, I have to stick to your question, which is directed especially at the impact of fires in the protected areas of our community. Beyond making a series of assessments like what she said in her first part of the intervention, and of course it goes all my way with regard to the assessments that can be made from the Galician Natural History Society, although obviously I do not share in this case the assessment transferred by the honourable Member as to the disinterest or abandonment of interpretation centers, since it was also this council that made a specific investment, since 2016 and 2017, precisely to dynamize those interpretation centers of the six natural parks. Finally, by focusing on the questions that the honourable Member is asking, indeed, the month of October was an absolutely and exceptionally atypical month. We're talking about a month in which there was 79% less precipitation of the usual in that same month, and of course also an average temperature that was higher than 2 degrees (2.4 degrees) at the average temperature of the historical series. To this we must add that we have suffered the consequences of what was the tail of hurricane Ofelia, and even, of course, that we have suffered the actions of the incendiary terrorists, who made those days, October 13 and 15, register in our community 264 fires and even 49,000 hectares were affected. Of these 49,000 acres, 53% were planted, while the rest were planted, 46.9%. As far as the demand for interpelent is concerned, as far as protected spaces are concerned, it represents 23.4% of all the rage in those areas; that is, we're talking about there being an affect of 11,000 hectares, specifically the province of Ourense, and even the province of Lugo, the most affected. The German Government is acting, as it cannot be otherwise, from the very first moment in the regeneration by the wave of fires suffered by Galicia last October. The Rural Middle Council — not this council — set out the measures to be taken, and acted in our community as a whole, while this council has acted and is acting specifically in two specific spaces, which are: the natural park of the Lower Threshold-Serre du Jurés, and also the special area of Ancares-Courel, mainly in an area characterized by its hunting reserve. I mean, this council is acting specifically in the regeneration of 6,600 hectares. We are acting as we ought to act, which is under the coordination of the Rural Environment Council and following all the decisions taken in that existing post-fire coordination bureau, as it cannot be otherwise. It is important, of course, to know the main condition of the environment that these fires have provoked, beyond the lamentable and unfortunate loss of human life. It is obvious that we also find ourselves, in these circumstances, with an environmental crime that has been of great magnitude, and as I said, the forest fires of last October have affected these two natural spaces, in which this council is currently acting and is going to continue acting next year. Those two areas are where we focus our work, but I repeat that always under the coordination established in a table already made up of post-fires leading the countryside. We did, because that's how we decided on that table, and even because this council is the one that leads to direct management of these spaces. In particular, in the Jurés park, the fire mainly affected the parishes of Rio Caldo and Araúxo, burning in that park a total of 3,670 hectares. In the Ancares-Courel area, 2,690 hectares were affected in the parishes of Donís and Noceda. In both cases damage was recorded mainly in slaughterhouses and rocks, restock pines, vegetation consisting of leafy natives, as well as somewhat less in meadows and crops. In total, 6,630 hectares were burned — as I said — in these two protected spaces. In addition to the damage caused by the flora of protected spaces, wildlife has also been harmed by the impact the fire has on its natural habitat, probably forcing it, and mostly, to flee to the surrounding areas. What if there is no record of any increase in wildlife income in the recovery centers we have in our community on those dates. The action of the German Government after the fires in October was characterized, first of all, by coordination, which we understand is essential. Coordination of measures to be taken among all departments as well; coordination that has even been praised — not only from Galicia, but from all over the state — by the European Union, just at the same time as the fires were happening. After the fires, the Rural Council convenes the first meeting of this Coordinating Bureau, involving 40 different representatives. This is the forum in which fires and actions have to be carried out; measures that were and are necessary to consolidate the soils and also to restore the burned areas. We are therefore talking about technical measures, not political measures, which, in fact, are the ones we are taking forward, which are proposed by the technicians. This was possible thanks to the relevant inspections on the ground and also to obtain the first approximations about the impact on the mountains that we had already detected. In this way, first the situation was evaluated and then the technical measures were coordinated to carry out. Much of the affected surface in these two protected spaces is found on high mountain terrains, on high slopes. That's why these works that we've seen at the Environmental Council are aimed at the most important goal, which is to avoid drifting from the ground to the rivers. These actions, which are also being coordinated by the Lourizán Research Center, have three different axes, which are the ones that affect this board. The first of all: measures to stabilize the floor and limit the runoffs through a blanket with organic blankets of coconut fiber. Also through a blanket of cereal straw, which is a technique known as Mulching, which is what is being done, in particular, from helicopters. We are also holding sediments, for which biodegradable barriers of coconut meshes were built, as well as straw and forest biomass, especially in areas that are curved, where these types of barriers anchored to the floor were installed through stakes. And in case it was necessary, we also studied the possibility of using different materials, such as stones, to avoid runoffs. Finally, measures to achieve re-connection of affected areas through manual seeding in destabilization-risked clouds, and even hydrosement in special sensitivity areas. All these actions are the ones we have seen in the last two months — I insist — with the coordination of the Rural Environment Council, which is also working in these same areas and other areas of Galicia. Today he continued to work in the area, reviewing the barriers that are already set up, repairing and correcting those that could also be affected by Ana's step. As for the restoration of basic services, from the Environmental Council we are proceeding to clean up all the holes, channels — including drains — and so on. At Galicia level, Junta immediately passed a decree of urgent measures; i.e., we mobilized about 21 million euros to compensate for these damage: 11 million euros were directed directly to the people affected, 7 million euros are destined precisely for reforestation and rehabilitation of soils, but in this case by the Rural Council, and this council has in two months an extraordinary budget of 1.1 million euros to do the work they have previously described. The work coordinated by the Rural Environment Council for the stabilization of fire-affected areas has an budget of 7 million euros of the remaining days of 2017, and this council of 1.1 million euros, that is to say 8.1 million euros in two months precisely to contribute to the restoration of the burned areas. As I said, an extraordinary departure. Obviously, in 2018 we will continue to work on the regeneration of these protected areas. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u250	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u251	Thank you, President. Counselor, Mariano Rajoy five years ago, I think he's president of the Government of Spain, and when he got to the presidency he denied climate change. He said he had a cousin who was an expert and his cousin told him that climate change was an invention. [[Applause]] Five years later he says something else, and it seems you knew about climate change when he was invited to the Paris Summit, and he went there and explained to him what climate change was and what effects it could cause. It's true that every time you come here, every time you go to the commission, you tell us about the strategy of fighting against climate change, but as they don't rush, the municipalities are in June 2019, and as they don't run, they won't give you time to finish it, and they're going to have to finish it or another fellow government officer of you or anyone who's coming to replace it to make this strategy. And we need the strategy now, Counselor, we can't wait any longer. Climate change doesn't even wait for Mariano Rajoy's cousin. To say that you don't match the Galician Natural History Society is to say a lot. I am not able to say such a thing, because the Galician Natural History Society has been in its early 20s, almost thirty years, taking care not only of the study of the protected areas of Galicia, but of the biodiversity of all protected areas, of the Galician environment. Many of the people who collaborate, most of them altruistically, are experts who know the area. So to say that we don't agree and that it's not true that the interpretation centers are abandoned... by the way, there are not only six, there are more interpretation centers, there are advisers. Indeed, October was an atypical month, and that's called climate change. That's the consequence of climate change. You've done what you just told us is to gather a post-fire coordination table, but the regeneration of protected areas is not only to throw coconut straw from a helicopter, it's much more. Yes to barriers and stones, as you just told us. And then they stay there and the regeneration is over. On the day you came to the Commission to explain your budgets, you talked about the wildlife recovery centres and said that three or four animals — they were less than five, sure — had been recovered. And now they just told us there was no increase in recovery centers. Man, they're dead, they're dead! And what are you going to do in the protected areas to return to the same number of animals as before? Because they will do something to be able to regenerate them — we suppose — or at least will have something planned. More or less on that post-fire coordination table, you've recorded that in the Jurés and the Ancares there would be about six thousand six hundred hectares burned. If there were 11,400 in the protected areas, where was the rest? The other nearly five thousand, counselor, where other places in Galicia have been protected, that it wasn't in the Anchors or the Jury saw? We'd like you to tell us what they are. And you say that the measures for soil recovery... the specific measures, of course, are the technicians who decide what measures they are. But whether they're going to do it or not, like, when and with that money, that's a political measure. Because I suppose you, Counselor, won't be a technique, mainly because I used to be in a councillor who wasn't this, who was Social Policy, unless you were a technical of both things. But that means that decisions are political, they're not decisions... I don't know if Mrs de Ourense is willing to take part in this debate, but I have no problem leaving the rostrum for her to come here and talk. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u252	Hey, let's take it easy. [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, come on, I understand we're all a little tired, but we're gonna finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u253	It's just that it bothers me so much that I'm behind you... more here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u254	Yes, in that you're absolutely right. You're bothering everyone. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u255	Thank you, President. I was telling you that we assume that the measures you have taken are political measures, and they are political decisions to take certain technical measures, to avoid, as you say, dragging the rivers from the ground. Well, then these measures after Ana's rubber was passed, were they effective or not? Counselor, what were the results?, were there erotic processes in the burned areas, yes or no?, did they disappear alone in the burned areas, yes or no?, and are the aquifers, the rivers contaminated, yes or no?, did they contaminate the rivers, yes or no? Those are simple questions. And there were effects as a result of the ashes in the creeks, yes or no? It's easy and we'd like you to answer. And if not, she can always ask Cristina Romero, who, at best, answers her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. [[Murmurs.]] Shuttle tower, Madam Environmental Adviser and Territory Planning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u257	Well, good afternoon. There are some who have cousins five years ago talked about climate change; the problem is that there are others who have rulers eight years ago, or even over five years ago, they didn't talk about climate change or talk about it, because then for them it really didn't exist, which was when you were ruling. So I think it's important, at least, to recognize that, indeed, climate change is here and that to climate change we have from governments to confront it. [[Applause]] It seems to Mrs Vilan that it is a key and obvious thing, but if she was in this world, she would realize that not for all politicians it is a clear thing. And indeed, Mrs Vilan, the decisions are political. Let's see if this government, by an express political decision of the President of Galicia, in less than a week it diverted 20 million euros to counter the effects of fires to help people and also to re-regine the mountains that were burned. And that, Mrs Vilán, is a political decision that for now, no one, not even the Bipartite — of which you have not been part, but your political formation itself — has been able to move forward in the 2006 fire strike. So I believe that this Galician Union is the one that has the greatest agility in a record time of response to the fire-fighting operation — and I say again: an operation against fires recognised by the European Union, because we are actually part of a coordination of the state — which was recognized just as it was burning Portugal and even Galicia. It's a shame they have to recognize us from outside, and those inside here don't recognize him — that's the first thing to do. And the second is that it was also the quickest Council of Galicia to make a decree — which is what I am talking about now — of aid intended to alleviate the particular, personal and even consequences of the ashes. So I think this government has been working around since minute one in the design of the actions and consolidation of the soils and restoration of the burned areas, and, as it cannot be otherwise, doing so in a coordinated manner and under the custody of the Rural Council. And in an immediate manner not only in the action against the fires themselves, but also in the inspections on the ground to have the first approximations of the situation in which the mountain was found, and even to take the specific measures. You worry about and ask specific questions about the situation of aquifer pollution, the situation of river and river pollution. I can put it forward — which I too will do in a question that I will ask myself within a moment — that in today's day and after all the inspections that I insist upon — in a coordinated manner — because in this government all the councils we speak and work together, by the hand of the Conseilaria do Medio Rural, by the hand of the Conseilerie du Mar, and even by the technicians linked, on the one hand, to the River Guard of Galician Waters and also environmental agents, have made a recognition of that, once the fires are over, and have even continued to make recognitions after the drunken Ana. In order to ensure that the quality of the waters — both of the aquifers and rivers and of the rivers — is the relevant and necessary to avoid harm, first of all, to public health and, second of all, to those living on the sea, such as seafarers, who are concerned that there is no runaways in the areas affected by the fire. So, in today's day, no other rubber has yet arrived — indeed, for the next week it is expected that a rubber will come too, and it is still about to delimit its intensity — the runoffs of which you were talking about coming out in videos have not caused any damage to the aquifers, rivers and rivers. This verifies not only the analyses made in laboratories but also, of course, the work done by the Council of the Sea. And, as the areas have been identified, the affected hectares are known, the affected hectares of protected areas are known. I answer only about the question they ask me directly, which is what this Environmental Council is working on. This Environmental Council, in fact, works on 6,600 hectares affected in two areas of special natural sensitivity, such as the Jurés or the Ancares — in the rest my companion still works on the advisor and his entire family team — with an investment — I insist — in less than two months of a single EUR 7 million and exclusively for re-engineering work. And indeed in that work we will continue to move forward. You might think it's not the right technique to talk about hiding, talking about mullching or talking about barriers. Well, that's probably a technique that you know more than the 40 technicians who are working on that table.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u258	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u259	If you know any other techniques, I suppose you'd better tell these mountain engineers to evaluate them. As for the impact of the drunken Ana — as I said to her — there was turbidity on the Salas river, in particular, but the rest of the caudals come down clean and without any sign that could cause concern — as I say — the public health, the first of all, and also the well-being of the marishers, on whom their livelihood really depends. So we're going from this council this year to EUR 1.1 million. We're going to send another million euros in 2018 to further progress in regeneration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u260	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u261	And, of course, the Conseilaria do Medio Rural will also continue to pay attention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u262	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u263	...the rest of the burnt acres. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u264	Thank you, Counselor. Mr Marcos Cal Ogando and two other Members of the G.P. of En Marea on the protection of the environment and the lindane
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u265	Question by Mr Marcos Cal of the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u266	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Counselor. The recent work of sanitation carried out in the Torneiros place, in the municipality of the Porriño, of the Plan Town Councils of the Pontevedra Deputies, where remains of lindane were found, brought to light a problem which is already over fifty years old, to which no administration wished to address him in depth, beyond the superficial measures affected by the Junta de Galicia in 1999, and which has to do with the pollution of the land and the aquifers that left behind the old Zeltia factory, located in the Torneiros place, in the Porriño. With the performances of this work, after digging to introduce the pipes, the neighborhood began to smell the pesticides. And in the following days, some neighbors began to feel different allergic reactions and diseases, which even made some neighbors come to the health center, not to mention at that time what they had under the house. Once it is detected that there is a lindane — this already in October — action is taken from the Town Hall to ban the consumption of water from its own wells, since in some houses they did not count, and do not count on today, with municipal treachery. And the Health Council takes evidence of water and land to know the extent of pollution. And so far neither we nor the neighborhood affected have any more information. For decades, the Lindan was a composite of success on our land; he was used as an insecticide in agriculture, as an antiparasitic in livestock and as a lotion against lice in humans. And so it was until 1991 that it was shown to be a toxic element that posed serious risks to the health of humans and animals, as well as to the natural environment. And on that date it was forbidden. Lindane is an element which the living beings accumulate with great ease, since it is likened to ingestion, breathing and even through the skin pathway, in addition to that it is bioaccumulative, so even low levels of lindane can be very detrimental to the continued exposure to that product, which is accumulated in the fat of the people and animals who either come into direct contact with the product, or either drink contaminated water, or eat cultivated plants on contaminated or watered land. In 2015, the World Health Organization ratified that lindane could also cause cancerous tumors, including lindane in group 1 of cancer products. It is very important to note that lindane is a highly toxic product and that its effects, as they are bioaccumulative, increasing with the passage of time, pose an important danger to human health and the natural environment. In Galicia we had the bad fortune of counting a Lindan industry for 17 years. We're talking about Zeltia, who synthesized the compound on her Porriño plant between 1947 and 1964. And at this time it is estimated — according to the report by Ecoloxists in Action — that more than a thousand tons of waste has been disposed of by leaching. There's a report that speaks of up to 10,000 tons. Because of its compacting cofounding, these wastes were used as material for the construction of roads and roads, as well as in fillings in various works, extending the lindane throughout the region, thus exacerbating the problem and making it difficult — and the longer it takes longer — its location for the consequent decontamination. On the factory's own land, official shelters were built 11 years later after the end of the lindane production in 1975, without the area being decontaminated. In the 1990s, contaminated lands were found in the Gandaras area, and the neighbourhood of Torners reported the insecticide smelling in the dwellings. So in 1999 the Galician Union did a partial decontamination action, which consisted of removing a surface layer of waste and transferring it to the Somozas industrial waste plant. And the rest of the localized waste was the subject of a waterproofing and sealed process, and some areas were used to restrict access. And even the possibility of moving the families of social housing was considered, because of the risks of exposure to this compound. Transfer that has not occurred to the concern of the neighborhood, that was in a situation of total vulnerability and abandonment in the face of a tremendously irresponsible administration, that does not react to the evidence, endangering the environment and also the health of families of low resources living in these social housing. And we understand that this was decisive to leave them to their own fate. In the course of 1999, which the Galician Union carried out with its partial land decontamination plan, it discovered very high concentrations of lindane on the surface and groundwater and supply. The data also revealed that the population and the natural environment were exposed to high levels of contamination for years, thus irreparable damage due to the nature of this compound. In the same year 1999, a study was conducted analysing and locating contaminated areas and others that could potentially also be affected. Seventeen years after the superficial actions of the Galician Union, the finding of waste after the work of sanitation in place of Contrast shows that it remains unsolved a serious problem of pollution that poses danger to human health and the natural environment, which makes it essential that the Galician Union act in order to find a definitive solution. At this moment, on the predictedly polluted land, there is a park known in the Porriño as the "Lindan Park", where children and children play every day, or where neighbors are enjoying leisure time; they also find social housing, the "Lindan Living", where they live near hundreds of families—we don't call them like this, there in the Porriño they call it: the "Lindan Living" and the "Lindan Park"—as well as the children's school, the institute and several buildings of the administration. And all of this without counting on the cute guy who spread out around the Porriño and around. Over the past few weeks, the analyses carried out by the Health Council have cast high values of lindane contamination in the Porriño 100 times higher than the reference value. Many local people also reported that they had obvious symptoms of contamination. As preventive measures, it was requested that the consumption of water from the wells of the area be avoided and that the consumption of garden products be avoided; two measures which, although obviously necessary, do not counter the exposure suffered for decades to the Lindan. This same week we approved in Commission 2nd, following a GNP that presented the Nationalist Block of Wales, a series of measures that can serve as a starting point for us: First, finish the exhaustive study as soon as possible, which the spokesperson of the People's Party informed us what they were doing and which would come out in the coming days. Secondly, once the results of the study are known, located in the contaminated areas, to carry out a decontamination project in collaboration with the Town Council. And this project will have to start throughout 2018. Thirdly, to continue to adopt — this proposal has been negotiated; therefore, it was a proposal by the People's Party, but this is based on a lie — in coordination with the Porriño Council the preventive measures necessary to avoid risks to people's health. I say "you must continue to adopt" because until now you have not coordinated with the Town Hall of the Child. And fourthly, to collaborate with the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation and the Porriño Town Hall to ensure the immediate supply of water to the affected population, which seems to be, by the information they transfer to us from The Porriño, that this is already going at a good pace and it seems to be going quite soon. The neighborhood that has well connected to a municipal betrayal also has its own contaminated wells. I have a battery of questions, which I don't think you need to read them again, I suppose you'd already read them. But, basically, what we want today is information about the opacity that we are having with this issue, seeing that you do not appear on your own in the face of a situation of obvious alarm, such as the crisis of the Lindan in Porriño, of lindane pollution. And we see that you're trying not to generate an alarm, to take this as quietly as possible, but it's a situation with enough gravity to make you appear. And since you don't show up, we've already brought an urgent question to the previous plenary, and today we're also bringing this interpellation. And as I say to you, basically, what we want is information, so that the different groups have information about what they've done and how the situation is done, and, above all, so that the neighborhood, at the end, if you end up transferring this information, because you don't do it directly. We must denounce the enormous irresponsibility of the administration over all these years, knowing this situation, that they had hidden it and that they had not acted on it. And we also have to denounce the irresponsibility today that, two months after you knew about this situation, the Environmental Council would not appear in person to be there with the neighborhood. At this moment, on the path which has now been covered, which has asphalted and where the madness had been made, there are remnants of lindane by the sides, and no one will do anything there. Which seems to us like a huge irresponsibility and, above all, a huge abandonment. Of course, for people who have been living on the lindane for decades, eating, drinking, breathing the lindane, surely, those who might have some trouble already have and will not be solved by running another month, of course. But in the face of a situation that caused the administration with its irresponsibility, knowing that this was there and not acting on it, we understand that the logic, for a matter of support and attention to citizenship, should be there with a much greater presence and, above all, coordinated with the Porriño Town Council, that up to this day you have no hurry and everything is still uncoordinated, in the Town Hall you know not to do and you're not doing anything either. So, nothing else. In the replica I'll follow. And please give us all the information as far as possible, what they've done so far, in previous years, what they've done since this crisis was opened two months ago and what they've been planning to do from now on. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u267	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u268	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Cal, one thing is not to generate alarm and another is not to be transparent. First of all, I want to make it clear that the Government is acting with total and absolute transparency and with total and absolute diligence from the very first moment we have the true suspicion of this kind of pollution. I also have to be very serious to say that this issue is serious enough to be vigilant from this council to 100 percent and even, of course, to take action. Measures which, as cannot be otherwise, must be technical and which must be marked by technicians. What I can't share is a series of statements and statements made by the honourable Member in his speech, such as the irresponsibility of an administration, nothing further. And, of course, no abandonment or leaving the neighborhood abandoned, since coordination from the very first moment between the Health Council, the Environmental Council, the Town Hall specifically and the Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation is total. And all this coordination is unique and exclusively for the most important, which is to preserve above all the health of the neighbours and the neighbours of the Porriño who are affected by this situation. You explained very well in your intervention the contamination of the porriño soils in this case by Lindano. It's a problem that you also said dates to almost more than half a century. Its origin was from the 40s. It is a production of an insecticide by a company in the industrial district of Torneiros, which is actually banned in our country from the year 2008, but which since 1964, i.e., fifty-three years ago, has not been manufactured in our community. It is true that it was in the late 1990s when an act was performed; in particular, an act of encapsulation of an area of the Torneiros polygon. But it was during those fifty-sixties where there was no danger, where that insecticide was not classified as highly polluting, when humans made use of it for different activities, among them for the filling of roads and for firm ones. In one of these roads, owned by the Porriño Town Hall, it was when doing a work on it, specifically in the place of Contrast, the adjudicatory company, the company that is committing that work, detects the presence of Lindano last October. The problem is that the Government, this council, in particular, has been working on a report for months now — a report that we are now also finishing — about the situation of the Lindan. In September 2017, a study is commissioned by a specialized company to perform soil analysis, to determine the possible existence of pollution in some areas of the Porriño. At this point we started a hypothesis, a possible contamination, which later in October was somehow verified by that notice that makes that contract of the work of that road of the Porriño Town Hall. From the very first moment it has been suspected that it could be beautiful, a substance which, as I said, has been used for years of filling and asphalting of all the municipal roads. I would like to point out that there has been coordinated work at all times along with the Council of Health and the Council of the Child and the Hydrographic Confederation. In this way, immediately after the discovery of the Lindan in that area of Contrast, in that work, in October, the seal of the work is made in a preventive manner, until the final action on the subject is made. And it also proceeds to take samples of soil and water, in particular twenty-seven samples. And it also proceeds to take sixty water analytics, which were those that revealed that in two thirds of the analyses there was no contamination. It is true that there are 19 wells in particular that if they were contaminated, there are 19 wells that are closed today. We did a full field work through the sampling of wells and trajectories, and even in a detailed analysis of those samples that reveal the presence of lindane above the reference values at some points. We act, Mr. Cal, with absolute responsibility and, of course, with complete transparency. Our first goal is to eliminate any possibility that the Lindan comes to human consumption, because the most important thing is always to avoid any possible risk to the population. Thus, as a general preventive measure, the Health Council recommends to whom it is competent, i.e. to the Town Hall, the closure of wells and fountains and not to use water for domestic use, and even to try not to consume grown food in the affected area. It is logical and responsible measures that should be taken at this time when the scope of the problem is known. And the Health Council commits itself to carrying out, and so is it doing, periodic water analysis, until it is enabled by whom it is competent, in this case also the Town Hall, an alternative supply, in addition to investigating any suspicion about the health effects that neighbours may have. And for that, all the health care workers are already prepared, as well as alerts. And the chronology is characterized by the following: From the very first moment we made contact with the Town Hall, I'm speaking on October 10, and the neighbors were kept informed as soon as the presence of the substance is confirmed. The first communication of the possible appearance of Lindano by the concessionaire company was October 10. Just a day later, on 11 October, an environmental inspection is carried out in the area marked by the company, and these works are extended in subsequent days. These first inspection visits and field work reveal the possible presence of Lindane, so in those same days soil samples are taken, which are sent to the Environmental Laboratory. The first contact with the Porriño Town Hall for coordination, also with the Health Council, which took the first water samples. On October 25, a meeting was held between the Environment, Health, the Town Hall and the Hydrographic Confederation and the company. On November 3, the first results of the Environment Laboratory were received, which revealed the contamination of soils. On November 7th, a new contact was maintained with the Porriño Town Hall. On November 10, a public health meeting is held to assess the results of the water. On November 15, a new meeting between the Environment, Health and the Town Hall. Among other matters, it welcomes the need to maintain preventive measures, the closure of wells and sources, which correspond to the Town Hall, and the provision of guaranteed water is also agreed on health-care to the housing in the area. Days later, on November 17, we held a meeting with the Doggy Town Hall, where they were present, Mr. Cal, the affected neighbours and where all the information on the table was placed; that is, they are not abandoned. And it's not true they're not informed. In this meeting, the neighbours were informed of the results of the analyses performed and insisted on health recommendations. For our part we move forward the steps that we are taking towards soil decontamination. In the last few weeks, administration contacts have been constant. This is how tomorrow there will be another meeting, in this case, between Health, the Environment and the Town Hall. Therefore, transparency all; concealment, none. There was no concealment of any kind. I mean, since you've got the certified record by lab technicians that you're pretty, in just a few days we've met with the neighbors to explain it. I'm going to move on that we've just finished this study, the preliminary study on the area affected by the Contrast that we're in charge of a specialized company. And this report will let us know the real situation of Lindano in that area, and they will also give us the basis for continuing to work. This work will be accompanied by a detailed research that we will already do in the next few days, in particular in January, and that will include drilling and opening of mosquitoes to check and, above all, quantify the amount of lindane that exists in the area, as well as its thickness, because these works are the ones that will allow us in some way, which is the important thing, to calculate and organize the planning and actions and measures necessary for the subsequent recovery of the area. Next, with this data in hand, we'll draw up a project, the project to remove that lindane and the soil affected, and even the treatment through an authorized manager. As we commit to the Town Hall and also to the neighbors, we will do everything in the first quarter of this year. We're working seriously, responsibly, technically, according to technical criteria. And, of course, nothing further from the responsibility that you're talking about leaving the neighbors behind, because it's not true, we're and we'll be in touch with them, because what matters most to this government, uniquely and exclusively, is to guarantee the health of the neighbours of the Porriño, in particular. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u269	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u270	Well, Counselor, what a pity that reality you said so much about your speech! You didn't answer a question that seems very important to me, which is what measures you have taken since the discovery of its nature and toxicity to humans, if you've planned for some action on social housing and if you have data from the Government of contaminated areas outside of those already detected after the work. These are very important questions you haven't answered. You say the neighbor's health is the first. Obviously, it should be the first, but today, the neighbours and neighbours of the affected areas are still waiting for the analysts. You deny them analytics. They need some fat analytics, which is where you can detect the lindane, and they're still waiting. I understand that you won't think that the neighbors and the neighbors have to cost you in this situation to find where you can do these analyses, because it's not easy, and I suppose you'll understand that this should do you. Coordination with the Town Hall. It's a lie that you're coordinated with the Town Hall. Tomorrow they meet, of course; tomorrow they meet for the first time, they make the first meeting would be coordinated from the different areas. Look, if they're coordinated, they're going to have to explain why there's still lindane remains along the way; I don't know how they've been coordinating that they're not even able to remove the remains in the area where they're detected. If they're coordinated, they have to explain to me why the people who did those works didn't put on the right suits they had to wear in order to manipulate the Lindan because of their high toxicity. If they were coordinated, you have to explain why yesterday a technician from the Town Hall called a person from the platform who has just been created to ask him what they have to do, because they don't know where they have to go. You'll tell me how they can be coordinated in this situation! If they are coordinated, of course, they have not been making any progress at all. And he says you weren't irresponsible, that you're acting since you've been in this situation. That's a lie, Counselor; directly: that's a lie. You have at least witnessed this situation since 2012, when the Hydrographic Confederation -- which I don't have here with the paper -- informs you that there is lindane pollution. This is registered in the Environmental Council, and there are values that multiply the minimum value by two hundred. You have this in the Environmental Council since 2012. But not only do they need to know through this, but the 1999 report itself says that there are areas that could be investigated in the future, and it talks in some areas. And you've been in government for nine years now, in the last few years, and they haven't done anything. But there are also different companies that are located where the old Zeltia factory was located that have a network of piezometers and that measure the levels of HC, and that continue to be high. You've been analyzing these levels all these years, and of course you have a record. But they record officially, reported by the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation since 2012, in a report sent to them, which is sealed and registered in their council. So I would ask them not to lie and ask them not to say here that they were not irresponsible because of that, of course, it was. Because that report says that it multiplies the minimum levels of lindane by 200; when the lindane is recommended at the zero level, because it's bioaccumulative, and eventually over the years it can be very harmful. You're analyzing an area that's this map, that's where the lindane was found. [[Mr. Cal Ogong shows the House a map in a leaflet.]] This area is outside the areas they analyzed in 1999, it has nothing to do with any of these areas. We need to analyze all these areas to see where they are. And if all these traces of lindane appeared, 19 contaminated wells outside the areas detected in 1999, of course, you have to expand the degree and the map for the location of the lindane. [[Mr. Cal Ogand is showing another map in a leaflet in the Chamber.]] A wide map is needed. As you said, this product has been used to make paths, to make firm, because it compacts very well, and is spread out in many areas. The Louro River is giving high levels of lindane, the Mine gives levels of lindane and we have lots of areas, as I tell you, outside. The platform itself is starting to map. Because the later we get worse, because it's been used for many years and the people who remember it is bigger. They're doing a map and they've located in the area of Mos several points, asking the neighborhood; they've located points outside the area of the "Sandane Park" and the dwellings. And this is a job you should be doing. You guys waiting to get out of that area where they found it? You, what do you want?, cover that up, solve that, keep the neighbor and neighbor betrayed and go back to Galicia's board and cover up the problem again? Look, this problem is an opportunity, that I've come out of this is an opportunity for you to solve the problem once and for all. The problem is not just where the madman opened up. In the 1999 report, you're talking about the problem within a square mile. But here we are already out, and we have places located in Mos, it's a much wider area. And we're talking about a very toxic product, very dangerous for the environment and for the health of people, and that you won't be able to land on, cover and go home. In Marea you're going to be on top of this problem, you're not going to let you cover this up, go back to what you did in 1999, and the problem is still there, because the problem is a very serious problem for the neighborhood and very serious for the natural environment. They approach him in depth, in a serious way, and they start to make that much wider map of this little area where you want to cover up, hide out and that you don't know anything about the real problem in this area. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u271	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u272	Look, Mr. Cal: no cover, no hide, no lie. This advisor and the board I represent have clearly defined competences in the field of soil pollution, in the field of water pollution. In water is the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation which has the powers to assess the situation of all aquifers, as you are reporting. Well, it's not this council that has the powers to say it's or isn't dangerous for people's health. It's not this council that says when the water quality, in this case, may or may not be dangerous to people's health. So, Mr. Cal, when I tell you that there is no report, within the competences of this council, that in this particular case it has to do with soil pollution, which endangers the health of the neighbours, and therefore this council acts at the time it knows that information, which, of course, has not been warned over that half century by whom it ruled in the Porriño Town Hall, I don't know who has ruled in the last sixty years, nor has it been warned in more than half a century by the Health Council, who has ruled over the last few years. Therefore, Mr. Cal, at least speak with property! But if when I give you an answer, you don't believe me, and I'm telling you in a relationship that I held at least five meetings between the Environmental Council, the Health Council, the Clean Town Hall and the Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, and you say here you haven't spoken to the Porri Town Hall, so what do you want me to tell you? I've got nothing else to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u273	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u274	More importantly, there's someone who's the only one who's forced to try to create an alarm where there's a serious problem, a problem where this councillor and the Galician board are going to be — as I said in the first intervention and I'm going to say — extremely vigilantes and in the maximum coordination with those who have competences, which is the Council of Health, which is the Town Council of the Porriño and even the Hydrographic Confederation of Mine-Sil, is that we're already acting. We could talk about what has been done over the past sixty years. If you like, Mr. Cal, remove the graves. But what I'm talking about is what I have as competition. And from the very first moment I've been aware that there could be a risk to health, this councillor, that he didn't receive any warning from those who have the skills to talk about health, in this case we act immediately. And we are doing a study, as you know very well, in a specific area, which is indeed the area of Contrast, where we are still improving this study today, because it is important to know the importance it has, the presence it has and the silence it has. And, therefore, we have to talk about mosquitoes, we have to talk about doing a deep study, to know what technical measures we have to take forward in order to recover that area and, of course, coordinate ourselves with the rest of the administrations. And, as I said, this study will enable us to carry forward the drafting of a project; a technical project, which will, of course, also need an investment for the withdrawal and treatment of lindane in that area. And, of course, we don't stop, offering in addition information and real data and not falling into alarmism, which is the only thing you intend to do, Mr. Cal. Because this is what can't be to come here, deny that there are meetings, deny that there are measures being taken. And we'll keep going on because this is what worries me most and what I'm dealing with right now, which is to finish drafting this project for the removal of the lindane from the affected soils, for their transfer and treatment. We'll have it ready in the first quarter of 2018. But we want to continue with the following phases, we want to talk too much. So we're going to develop a study throughout the town hall of the Porriño to evaluate the presence of the lindane throughout the municipality, so we'll need the maximum information and collaboration of all the neighbors who historically can identify the areas where that material was spread out, and we can analyze it with much more certainty. And, in parallel, we will also establish a protocol of action for the fact that in the municipality of Porriño if they do works afterwards, for them to find the lindano, they know what they have to do and how they have to do it. And we'll also ask who's competent, the Town Hall, the planning of a municipal supply system, because there's actually a lot of wells, and some of them aren't even legalized. And if we're not legalized and not betrayed, we're not the one who, neither this board nor the Health Council, evaluates the water quality. And, of course, we will also address the State to request collaboration and economic support not only for the location of the whole lindane throughout the municipality, but also for its withdrawal. We're acting responsibly, seriously, in an orderly way, following protocols, working under three axes. The first thing is to avoid exposure of the population to this compound, and to that end it is necessary to prohibit the consumption of water, because water consumption is done by the one who has the power to prohibit, which is the Town Hall, after receiving a report from the Health Council...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u275	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u276	... locating and quantifying waste, which is where this board directly competes, which has equipped a number of studies; studies in which we are already working, studies in which we announce that we will continue to move forward. And finally, expand this study to the whole of the Porriño.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u277	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u278	If you know more about Lindan, at least contribute and contribute something serious. What does not contribute is to generate an unnecessary alarm. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u279	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you. The sixth point of the agenda, you ask the Government. Question by Mr David Rodríguez Estévez and two other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, about the current realization by the Junta of Galicia of some analysis of the levels of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and elements trace in the waters and sediments of the cours in the areas affected by the recent wave of forest fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u280	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u281	Thank you, President. Counsellor, in the Committee on Agriculture, Food and Mountains on 10 November, in this Chamber, In Marea has brought a non-law proposal on the development by the Greek Government of action protocols for forest fire-burning areas and the creation of a standby seed bank for its implementation in the practice of mullching, of what you spoke earlier, in order to limit the risk of erosion. The People's Party votes against, because the People's Party has absolute truth and control of everything, and what didn't happen happened: our mountain, our rivers, our rivers and ecosystems, all contained in black. It says to the Galician Natural History Society — that I just learned that it is a non-gracious society within the ranks of the People's Party — that good intentions are not to give good results. Yes, we need the good intentions and desires of all to force the administrations to fulfill their role. To limit the risk of post-fire erosion, it is necessary to make a set of decisions, which since Galician Union did not take; a series of actions must be performed as soon as possible, before the first rains unleash the worst effects, which since Galician Union did not take. I'm bringing here this graphic test. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Mr. Rodríguez Estévez displays a laptop]] You have just stated, in the face of the PSdeG interrogation, that Jurés is uncontaminated, the channels of no river of Jurés, of no fountain, of no nacent is contaminating. This video, this graphic test, sends you an environmental agent from your office, sorry, because this is happening while no action has been done. This is Jurés saw. The recent wave of fires that hit part of our country, including densely inhabited areas, has calcined extensive surfaces in the head or in the waterfront, water uptakes, rivers, coroners, both hydroelectric and water supply to the populations, so there is a risk that these ash, coal and sediments dragged by the rain will cause contamination of the streams and masses of water, including those used for human supply. The presence on beaches and sedimentation of yellow hydrocarbons originating in fires is already tested by several studies, and not only our mountains and rivers, are also our rivers; we are on a very important date in the shellfish campaign, the economic viability of a large part of the sector depends on these dates. Since the wave of fires, they have been detected in some suspended ash streams during the black Sundays and days after, coming from the atmosphere, whose impact has not yet been measured. The drought that we were suffering has influenced and put marine production at risk, because many high-value species, such as the Berbereccho themselves, require the fresh water stream of our rivers in the mouths.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u282	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u283	And what we're concerned about now is to minimize the impact of this sad episode. And before that, we wonder if the Galician Union is analyzing the levels of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and trace elements in the waters and sediments of the coronations of the areas affected by the recent wave of fires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u284	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u285	Thank you very much, President. Go forward that at no time had I said that the Galician Natural History Society had not been grateful for this advice, nor much less. That doesn't mean that you agree with everything you say, that's what I said at first. The second one, go ahead too. I'm convinced that you know that, even though water is cloudy, it doesn't mean that it takes a degree of pollution that may pose a danger or good for public health or for seafood. Third, also go ahead that video of what you were talking about... Mr. Losada, do you want to intervene?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u286	No, let's not go into that, please. The question is from Mr. Rodríguez. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u287	Go forward too—forgive me in time—even though you present me a video of the Jurés, which I am convinced that you know that the competition for assessing the quality of the waters, which belongs to this directly, is strictly linked to the Galician basin, and that therefore that quality of those waters that you were teaching in a video is the competence of the Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, to which I am convinced that I am making the same analyses that I am evaluating in my competences, but that, of course, if you want to have much better and more truthful information, you will have to address directly to the Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation. What I can assure you, I said in the interpellation and I repeat again today, is that, with all the workers we have within the Council, and even in the River Guard that depends on Galician waters, and that it assesses the quality of the waters in our competences, today the answer would actually be easy: there is no contamination, today, 20 December, of pollution of poly-cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in the waters of the rivers, nor in the sediments of the corons. Go ahead, too, that we're working on this research from the very first moment, from the fire strike. In fact, this River Guard I was talking about, which depends on Galician Waters, is already from Monday, October 16, evaluating in the areas that in a way we understood that they were more urgent to follow up, in particular the Minor River, the Zamán embassies, in Vigo, the river of the Baíña reservoir, the Muños River, in Nigrán, the Eightaven River, the Gesta boiling, the Eiras reservoir, in Caldelas Bridge, in Fornelos, in Pazos de Borbonne; we were also in Boiro, in the Ulla River, in the Thambre tributum, in the Barrie de la Maza reservoir... we were finally where we understood that, by the presence of the fires, we had to be the whole River Guard. At the first moment, the Fluvial Guard technicians didn't notice any problems that were significant, but obviously we had to keep going and we're still working to confirm that the situation of the Fluvial Guard is still going on. And we're also doing this from the Lourizán Research Center, which identifies a number of points in our demarcation -- I insist: in our demarcation -- in which it is considered necessary to analyze whether or not hydrocarbons are present.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u288	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later. Replica, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u289	Thank you, President. The video, as you well say, which is the channel of the river, is the competence of the Hydrographic Confederation. Now, the drag that goes down all over the hillside below I think it's your competence, and that they're not doing the work that they should do. The restoration work to prevent these particles from reaching our waters, and that you haven't done, requires a planning that clearly sets out the essential points to be considered, the actions to be carried out and its consequent execution. In this context, protocols are useful tools that help organize these actions, and there are many bodies, and even many technicians in their own counseling, who tell us that they are not being carried out. You, who are so constitutionalistic, I remind you of one of your obligations, that it is to comply with and enforce Article 45, where everyone and everyone has the right to enjoy an environment suitable for the development of people, as well as the duty to maintain it; the public authorities will ensure the rational use of all natural resources, in order to protect and improve the quality of life; and for those who violate the provisions of the previous paragraph, in accordance with the law, sanctions will be established, whether criminal or administrative, that this is what they have to apply to some people who are not avoiding these damages. Let scientific advice be given, universities, biologists, forest fire researchers, mountain owners, environmentalists, and put in place urgently actions that minimize the damage caused, ecological damage, economic damage and social damage. There is an urgent need to carry forward jobs that avoid erosion and ash trawls to aquifers and river courses. Regeneration and recovery of affected ecosystems are vital to the country's survival. And sincerity is a basic principle to solve these bees. Look, this is the birthplace of the Barbaña River, in the province of Ourense, all black; nothing has been done. [[Mr. Rodríguez Estévez shows a series of photographs]] This is the river as it passes through the village of Ribadavia, all black. This is the central mass in areas of high ecological and landscaped turbulence, and nothing has been done. This is O Jurés, and so we'd have to throw all afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u290	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Time's up. Thank you. Close the question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u291	Thank you very much. It's interesting to hear him mention an article in the Constitution, but I'm glad, because I like all the articles in the Constitution, and therefore, apart from loving, fulfilling them and doing them. As I told you, we work in a coordinated way to precisely make that assessment and detection of possible consequences through the Rural Environment Council and even in collaboration with the Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation. I repeat to you that I am convinced that the Mine-Sil Hydrographic Confederation is making the same assessment with its technicians of the situation in which its entire basin is located, and therefore I am convinced that they are controlling the most affected areas by fires in their demarcation. Your goal is also to perform these analyses, analyses in this case by what you were asking about the situation in which polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are found, and other types of compounds that may be present in the water. Of course, we're guided by protocols that are already written, by protocols that they have, that's how they work, not only the River Guard, but also the agents, and of course we also evaluate the chemical compounds that mark us by the technicians, that can act as university recommendations or that actually, as you said, can know. We are doing analyses in different areas, in different points, and we actually evaluate different chemical parameters: anthracene, bezantracene, benzopyrene, benzofluorootene; ultimately, a list of all the chemical components that we understand that within aromatic hydrocarbons could be contaminants. And being clear, and speaking again about competition, which is this advice, which is the most important, of all results, of all analyses made, then just from the fires, and even after the drunken Ana, it is not detected today the presence of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in the waters, not only of the coronations but also of the rivers of the Galicia-costa basin. All these results are the ones that we have from the parameters analyzed since then, on October 16, until now, also in the sediments and the corrosives. We're still doing analyses, we're still watching, we're especially focused on an area of our competition, which is the one that's linked to the area of Eiras, Zamáns and Bain, which is the zone that fits where the most condition could have the contamination caused by the gray trawl, and in these inspections we've carried out, already on Monday 11, no drag has been observed or no sample has been taken. We are vigilant and, of course, I believe that we have a lot of talented people within this council, a lot of technicians within the waters of Galicia and within the Environmental Laboratory, which I think they do extraordinary work, and that, of course, politicians here are the only thing we do to let them work, and they are working specifically. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u292	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Daniel Vega Pérez and nine other Members of the G.P. Popular, about the improvements produced at the Comarcal Marine Hospital since the operation of the Integrated Management Structures System, EOXI
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u293	Mr. Vega Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u294	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Today we ask — and I think it is important to ask — about public health, public health that defends this parliamentary group — and I believe and I bet that it also defends public health this government. So we think it's important to ask you about the EOXI, that is, the Integrated Management Structure Plan, which was you and this government who set it up, and I think it brought some benefits to a region, ultimately to an autonomous community. But we wonder why, because there are different parties that are lying and are deceiving a comarca, specifically a region that is The Navy, which is saying that we're going to dismantle the hospital, that we're going to close the hospital, and I think it's good that a counselor come here to report to the people of Greece, and come to the truth, and see if once and for all we're moving away from these demagogues and those people who use public health to use it as an electoral instrument. So we asked from responsibility, and we asked you, Counselor, what benefits it has brought to a hospital and what benefits it has brought to some patients who attend the hospital every day and know perfectly that the hospital door is open to all, and you don't have to come with a Visa card, but with the armored card, which is the card that gives a person to go to public health and have her free. Let's see if we're all clear. So when there is a parliamentary group that asks and makes Parliament's advisor answer, others keep holding the sign of the lie, they keep holding a sign — it's true that eight in a region where there are 80,000 people. I ask those eight people to reflect and make an internal reflection and to tell the people of the Navy that they use public health as an electoral instrument. Having said this, Counsellor, I ask you: what are the improvements that have been made to the marine community hospital — hospital — so that one can be made clear to the Navy — since the system of integrated management structures has been operational. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u295	Thank you, Mr. Vega. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u296	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vega, the truth is that since the council, for years now, it has always been — I think it is a basic principle — to bring health services closer to citizens. And that is why Decree 168/2010 regulated the organizational structure of integrated management of the Galego Health Service, and, specifically, by Decree 55/2013 of 21 March, EOXI was created in the areas of Lugo, Cervo and Monforte de Lemos. At that time, as I was saying, there were some who said it was to shut down comarcal hospitals. Curiously, it's similar to what they say five or six years later when we want to reform the Galician Health Act precisely to adapt it to the care circumstances that people are asking for. Well, since then, since the comarcas hospitals were closed in 2011-2012, we have launched the Hospitalization Service in Domicilio, now with two teams and with the consequent adaptation of official vehicle staffing spaces of the Galician Health Service with an optional and a HADO nurse. We set up the Manchester triage system in the Emergency Service, with works of space reform and nursing equipment. We reformed and enlarged the unit of digestive endoscopy, and we equipped it with a second room of external endoscopy and storage, in addition to the equipment supply: two new towers of endoscopy, one of them with magnification, with its staffing, logically, a digestive device specialist and a nurse. The rehabilitation unit has been provided with a second rehabilitation consultation and in the pharmacy service, we have also made various improvements. We renew the area of surgery and sterilization, the ophthalmology service, the urology service and the anesthesia and resuscitation services, not only as far as infrastructure and equipment are concerned, but as is logical, personnel. We launched the Oncohematologic Day Hospital, a complete work for the provision of space for 14 chemotherapy treatment posts, with the provision of chairs and equipment; we launched this service so important to all citizens. We expand the staff with nursing staff and reform the pharmacy so that the treatments can be prepared, in addition to increasing the budget for covering the cost of the drugs administered. And we managed, logically, to avoid displacements to the capital place. This new area is attended by oncologists attending the Oncology Service at the Luus Augusti University Hospital; a great oncology service with experts with many years of experience that, instead of transferring patients, they moved to the Costa Hospital to pay that attention. A service that, as I say, avoids displacement. In 2017, 3,600 patients who received approximately 14,000 treatments were treated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u297	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u298	We'll continue the next one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u299	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Vega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, I really liked your answer. I hope the opposition was pointing and writing. I hope they did their job as parliamentarians. [[Laughter]] You don't just have to play with your ears to talk about public health. We check it out today in the morning in the questions to the president. Big health experts! Mr. Villares spoke of the Marine Hospital. It's true he's touched his ear. It's true they only go to the Marine Hospital, at the door, with eight more people, and other parties also go there seven and some more. And to the next acts, which accommodate the president of the Galician board and some of the party's organic positions, they do the demonstrations. [[Murmurs.]] I've already said it in several media: instead of demonstrations, they seem to be obsessed with the German Government and the group that supports the Government. So you've clarified us very well the future of public health and made us very clear what the future of the Marine Hospital is going to be; that is, 20 million euros of investment. That has a positive effect on the hospital -- 6,000 square meters more than the hospital. Home hospitalization is a health service that did not exist. Ladies and gentlemen of the Bipartite, there had not existed before, and now there is a home hospitalization that is positively valued by the neighborhoods. They don't talk so much about the county and they hear more about it. So, Counsellor, if we have that budget allocation and if that budget allocation has a positive impact to increase in 43 rooms more the hospital is data that the marine neighbours welcome us. It's data that's going to shield the Marine Hospital...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u301	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u302	...for ever.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u303	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u304	Leave the sign and come...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u305	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u306	...to reality. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u307	Thank you, Mr. Vega. Shut up, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the truth is, yes. But apart from the very important oncological area, also in pathological anatomy, in cardiology and rehabilitation, we're improving and increasing these services. And I also want to say that the times of attention — very important — are the best we have in the public system in Galicia. What's more, the Marine Hospital serves in an average of 3 days the most serious patients, the ones of priority 1, logically of special attention. And it reduced the average wait for surgical interventions in ordinary days to 40.9 days; 6 days less than in the first half of 2016. Besides, logically, we don't stay there, and in front of the idea, as it says, of the banner, which is always used, and the photos, always using public health infrastructures, we keep working. The Master Plan gave rise to a work already started, and the idea is that it ends either in the last quarter of 2018 or in the first months of 2019. That is phase 1 of the Master Plan, which leads almost to 12 million, and which we are going to expand — as it says — in hospital units, but also in outpatient treatments, more and more important. Logically, this is what the population is asking us to do: try to be at least possible in an incoming hospital, be able to be cared for in the area, bring services closer to the citizen's place of residence, and logically spend the smallest time — as I say — in this facility. We've got it, as I say, going, but we're not staying there. Apart from this magnificent work of nearly 12 million euros, what we're following is planning. We are already trying to shape the second phase, that second phase which will continue to improve in all areas of radiology, areas — as I say — outpatient clinics, so that we can gradually increase the health service — which never remains stable and always needs improvements. I can't make this comment by not being the protagonist this morning; unfortunately, as long as I speak, and meet health issues, it's not. If I mean, there are things that have been said and that are real barbarities, lies, or, of course, facts that are unknown. That seems very serious to me. For example, the urology service makes a pathology of the specialty, including oncology. To say that it doesn't make certain pathology seems to me to be completely unaware of reality. Or it's also said that in the ophthalmology service there are no cataracts, which, logically, is the first diagnosis, the first treatment that is done in that area, as in any other area. And they also say that the otorrino service has no activity, when the pathology of the specialty is being performed, including, logically, the most complex oncological pathology. And, of course, cardiology has been in place for many years. [[Murmurs.]] The Coastal Hospital has a broader portfolio of services than any comarcal hospital. Why? Because for many years, really, he's been working magnificent professionals in that area. And we, with the reform of the law and with all the initiatives that we have, we go further, don't stand still and we're going to improve the quality of the service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u309	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u310	...and the number of services we can give there. That's why, by realizing, of course, we are delighted with the service that the comarcas hospitals are doing, and with the reform of the law, what they are looking for, precisely, is to bring more services to the citizens, to live where they live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u311	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the situation of the infrastructure and the staffing of nursing staff at the Comarcal Hospital in Monforte
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u312	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u313	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Allow me, first of all, to greet the companions who accompany us today of Monforte and Savinhao. They're two of the municipalities whose neighborhood is a user of Monforte's Comarcal Hospital, so today we ask him, and we keep keeping ourselves in the same EOXI as we were talking about in the previous question. And we asked him about the situation in which this comarcal hospital is located because complaints by the staff meeting are repeated on this particular issue — and that is where we are focusing our question today — on the conditions of work in which nurses and nursing assistants from internal medicine and specialties plants are found. Currently, at the Hospital de Monforte there is on the night shift 1 nurse and 1 assistant to attend each plant, which is to care for 28 patients for 1 nurse and 1 assistant. Let's imagine for a moment what can be usually done in a hospital, how two urgent situations occur on the same night, on the same plant. What do these workers have to do? Because we're not able to break into two human beings until now. What's causing the lack of staff, which also reaches the category of locker, translates into an overload of work for professionals, who are targeted and targeted at prioritizing tasks because it's impossible to pay due attention to all hospitalized people. I insist, 1 nurse and 1 auxiliary for 28 patients. That's absolutely the opposite of a good quality of care. And I ask you in advance not to accuse us of questioning the professionalism of workers and workers, because what we are questioning is precisely the lack of professionals to deal with the workload that exists in the concrete in this comarcal hospital. A situation that is not new, which has been denounced for a long time by the staff meeting, and to which it is added — because contrary to its story the reality is another — the loss of the digestive specialty — there is a vacant square that has not yet been covered. In the case of ophthalmology, it was only provisionally covered. And they're looking forward to seeing what happens in the case of cardiology. You're going to retire the person who has this square in the first quarter of 2018, and, seeing the background, they have quite a few doubts about it being covered. We brought this question before the complaints, I say, repeated from the staff board. And what we ask you today, Counsellor, is if you're going to listen to these demands, to those claims, to increase the nursing staff and nursing assistant at Monforte's Comarcal Hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u314	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. The counsellor's word is for the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I shall begin as I have completed the previous speech, speaking of the magnificent professions we have in the area of Welsh health, and, of course, in the area of Monforte, as in the area of Burela; we can say so without any discrepancy. We've got great professionals. And, of course, the demands of staff at the Monforte Hospital — like those of any other — are analyzed and evaluated both with the personnel themselves and with the participating bodies. There's something fundamental, we have to do the same level of quality wherever, whether in the comarcal hospitals, the reference hospitals or the health centers. We have to assess at all times what we are going to take care of and logically the care burden is fundamental. The Monforte Hospital relies on the necessary personnel and is sized according to the population it serves in its coverage and occupation indexes. In addition, there has been a decrease in almost 8,000 citizens, people, reference population in this health area. Unfortunately, one of the problems we have in Galicia in this area is reflected in an important way, since we are talking about 8,000 people less since 2003, an important fall. In addition, as you know, in Sergas we have set up a stability plan because, logically, one subject that we seek, of course, to enhance is staff stability, because the staff will work more appropriately. And we're going to get it far above what the Ministry wants. We're going to go to 5% eventually; in this area we're also going to notice, and of course we think that's what we're going to do. But I want to tell you one thing, the index of occupation last October -- by setting an example, a month already quite carefully because we're entering the winter -- was less than 65%. When you say we talk about 28 patients in a wing, it's not true. We're talking about 65% of the wing of 28 patients; they're not 28 patients. And, therefore, if there is a timely increase in workloads or assistance demand, Sergas, the Monforte Hospital, reinforces the staff needed to ensure at all times quality, agile and effective care. This is done at any time that is necessary, because the goal of Sergas is to pay attention to the highest quality. One test of this is also the start of home hospitalization at the end of 2016, through which more than 2,200 visits were made around 200 patients. We're attending not only in hospital, not only in consultation, not only in emergencies, but also at home. Another improvement in hospital services is the oncotoxic day hospital, which, like Burela, allows treating oncologic patients by the same team as we speak in Lugo; in this way, they can be treated at their place of residence and we can approach the services to each of the locations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u316	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u317	And, as I say, I want to emphasize that at all times we are willing to listen to professionals and take their contributions into account and put them into practice if we can improve the provision of health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u318	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u319	Thank you, President. I, counsellor, the first one, are magnificent professionals, we're fully in agreement with that, but professionalism is also directly linked to work rights, and what we can't have is an overload of work in a staff frame which is diminished or which, at least, doesn't count on enough human resources to meet the needs of people who are hospitalized; that is, everything goes well but of the 28 squares that the plant has are not all covered. I insist again on the question I referred to in my first intervention. How, if we only have a nurse, if two cases of emergency occur on the same night, will you meet those needs of people who are hospitalized there? And so I move it because, in addition, it was as if it moved us directly, and making a lot of emphasis on that question that they are focused on having to prioritize the tasks they cover, to have to decide about meeting all the needs of people who are hospitalized, and also generating them. He was transferred, in addition, by writing, precisely by the professionals themselves, to the hospital's administration, warning of those needs that were not met; that is, another political organization was brought to the House's Health Commission these claims to urge the board of Gaulza to meet those staff needs, and they were rejected by the People's Party and the political force that the Government supports. So, listen, what you say you hear, the demands of the staff painting, I almost dare say no. And in addition, in my speech, I referred to other questions a little bit to the thread of the question that had been raised earlier, putting in value that health reform that the People's Party had made. We're not approaching health services to the population of the comarcas, which is often being done by replacing services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u320	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u321	...for others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u322	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You've got the Government's replication shift, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u323	Mrs. Rodil, of course, I think it's not in Parliament where you should say what number of staff has to have a wing of hospitalization; I think that's getting things out of context. That's why the workers and union representatives of the workers and, logically, the system managers; otherwise, this would be ungovernable. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Some of your group's parliamentarians have already told me on one occasion that on the topic of the vaccination calendar we had to make political decisions. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] I always said no, that we have to respect the technical criteria for equal treatment for all patients, no matter where they live. Look, saying that if there's an emergency, two emergencies or three emergencies in one night, it's demagogic. It's demagogic because precisely where the staff is most supported is in a hospital, which there are five hospital areas with the corresponding staff, with the emergency service. All personnel are prepared to respond to whatever is needed. So you can't set me as an example. It also gives me the example of whether or not we cover an ophthalmologist, urologist or something. Precisely what you're fighting from the banner, from the photo, is that you don't reform the Galician Health Act, and I think that's a mistake. You should think about it, because what this new distribution is looking for is that we have non-personal area services; what we're giving is an unassociated service to a person, associated with a service, a professional team of doctors, nurses, nursing assistants, janitors -- that's an assistance team; that's what we want there to be, that there's no difficulty. So we will continue to listen to staff, listening to representatives and, of course, taking into account the needs of citizens at the time they need them, increasing in times of greater occupation and logically not opening, not using beds that are not necessary, because we also have to give a sense to what health management is. And look, I also want to tell you that I have 31 points of improvement here in the Monforte health area, at the Monforte hospital, in the last two years. I'm going to try to read — I don't know if I'll be here, if it'll give me time — at 31, but I'm going to go one by one. New rehabilitation equipment has been acquired; improvements to hospital access; works to extend gymnasium and rehabilitation; even patients who are not in their health area—traumatology, for example, and border areas—building of the new oncohematological day hospital at the hospital's lower floor; implantation of amniocentosis tests—then women in the Monforte area had to go to Lugo to do amniocentesis; at the moment they are done there—work at the traumatology plant; arrangements in the bathrooms of all rooms; implantation of new services: oncology, allergy...; reform of the hospital entrance hall; a new ultrasound; a new work station in the cardiology service; acquisition of a new digital mammography...;
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u324	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u325	...acquisition of a new respirator for the anesthesia service; incorporation of the mental health unit of the comarcal hospital; opening a new external consultation room in the old surgeries; setting up a new pelvic soil rehabilitation unit... this, and, as I say, up to 31 new points in the last two years. How can you say we're not trying to bring services closer to the comarcas, where the patients live? How can they say the same thing? The Comarcal Hospital in Monforte is still growing: more services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u326	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u327	...and of the highest quality. And we'll keep working, even if you don't understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u328	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the evaluation of the Galician Union regarding the relationship between the benefits and risks of vaccines used in the Greek vaccination programme
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u329	To put the question, Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u330	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Vaccination, along with improvements in hygiene, treatment of water supply and antibiotics are the medical practices that most lives have saved. Eradication in the 1980s of the smallpox -- it's a disease that could cause 30% deaths -- after the worldwide generalization of vaccination against it, is a clear example of the effectiveness of immunization in people for different infectious diseases. Against all existing scientific evidence, vaccines are sadly present on these dates, not because of their effectiveness and safety, but because of the surprising and irresponsible question posed by a European Parliamentary Member of Greece to the European Commission, in which he doubts the benefits of vaccination, magnifying the adverse effects of vaccination. In the face of this serious situation, the Spanish Society of Immunology had to issue a note, published in Greek newspapers, bringing its concern about the serious irresponsibility that is supposed to question vaccines in the 21st century, as did this member of the Group of In Marea. The president of this society has gone out of the way to refute false statements. Most vaccines no longer use mercury as a preservative. And a professional who published a study on the relationship between vaccines and autism — by the way, with false data — is absolutely discredited and has been removed from his country of origin to exercise serious irresponsibility, the serious risk to individual and collective public health, which represented this person. It seems incredible that a public official becomes a defender of a thesis without any scientific evidence, supported by a small group of "extreme conspirators", claiming to be against the multinational pharmaceuticals. Mrs. Senra's question speaks of toxicity and side effects, citing that they can even cause death, alarming the population. Or he also asks for informed consent for his administration. So, it rejects the obligation of its application, which has just been implemented in some European countries in the face of the increase in infant mortality in unvaccinated children, to conclude by claiming that no one could prove the safety of vaccines; extreme and false severity. Sad to say, in the face of the advances in antivirals and the frequent toxicity of social networks, there were over 2,500 cases of measles in Italy, 90% not vaccinated, recently also in Spain, a diphtheria death of a Catalan child and income from this type of disease. With the interest of refuting scientific claims such as those expressed by this elect of the old left-wing Galician Alternative, represented today in this Parliament by the En Marea Group, to reassure the population and inform it of the benefits of vaccines, so that no one can have the slightest doubt about the safety of any vaccine that can be administered in Galicia on a calendar basis or by an indication from any professional, the Popular Parliamentary Group asks the following question: How does the Galician Union value the relationship between benefits and risks of vaccines used in the Welsh vaccination programme, both children and adults? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u331	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. To answer, you have the word of the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I think it is necessary to say clearly and unequivocally that vaccinations and vaccination programmes are one of the most beneficial preventive strategies in public health. Vaccines are routinely administered to healthy populations, especially children, so the security assurances that exist are maximum. Security is highly valued with scientific rigour, and decisions on its administration to the population must be based on accurate knowledge of the conscious benefit-risk. According to WHO, the estimated number of deaths preventable between 2011 and 2020 is 20-25 million, an average of 2.5 million deaths avoided each year due to preventable diseases, such as measles, hepatitis B, neumoccus Haemophilus influenzae, rotavirus, papilloma virus, rubella, yellow fever or encephalitis. Even the 2016 Nobel Prize in Medicine, biochemist Jules Hoffmann, goes further and says, "Vaccines have saved 1.5 billion lives. Not vaccinating is a crime." In Spain, the impact of vaccination can be assessed when we know that the number of cases of measles was in 1983 of 301,319—301,000!—and there were 302 cases in 2015—from 300,000 to 300 cases—; of ferin cough there were 60,000 cases in 1985 and 3,439 thirty years later; and of poliomyelitis, which in 1959 affected 2,132 people, in 2015 there was no one. And if we talk about Galicia, which is what you ask, about measles, we had 11,000 cases in 1982 and no cases in 2016. In the case of sore cough, we moved from 1,046 in 1985 to 128 in 2016. And from Meninxite C, where we were pioneers in the vaccination campaign, we moved from 172 cases in 1996 to none in 2016; the impact that is also translated not only in terms of decreasing mortality, but also in terms of morbidity. It must also be said that vaccines, like any other biological product, can cause adverse reactions, which in their vast majority are mild, well tolerated and acceptable, although on rare occasions can produce effects of greater severity. The approval of any vaccine is conditioned by the agencies that regulate the suitability of the studies performed. Once marketed, the process continues and follow-up of post-marketing adverse effects, which will enable you to complete your knowledge of your safety. Therefore, Mr President, they are safe and, above all, effective.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u333	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u334	Mr. President. This clears up, Mr Counsellor, the grave irresponsibility and laxity of the honourable Member we are talking about. Some spokesperson in the Marea Group still had the courage to defend her or, at least, not to flatly refuse those claims, visiting her, in addition, at the headquarters of the Europalamento, not in accordance with the requests for resignation that brought her to fellows and associations. That same spokesman today tried to deceive the population in the question to the president by putting in the mouth of Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo some words that were from the President of Castela-A Mancha and that she merely repeated in the Committee on Health in relation to vaccines. We believe that Mrs. Senra should have submitted her resignation, and not because of her transfuguism, according to someone's assertions from her coalition, or not because of the quotas she should have entered the box of her party, according to other versions, but because of the grave prejudice that her words and statements may cause in public health throughout Europe by social alarm. [[Murmurs.]] It is also surprising, Counsellor, that people from the same political group that Mrs Senra had demanded in this Parliament the extension of the vaccination calendar or generalized administration of a vaccine that had just reached the market with limited scientific research and when the incidence figures of that disease were and are being the lowest for many years, or that the Government of Galician Union had been accused of the destruction of some vaccine that you, of course, were not responsible. First they alert the population for non-administration or for the subsequent destruction to frighten them with the dangers or side effects of vaccines. So, ladies and gentlemen, from the majority group in the House, we want to defend the vaccination always by technicians, in this case epidemiologists and predictors, so that the whole population will have the security and tranquillity that it can receive any vaccine without any significant risk. We would no longer be surprised that any public representative of that party would ever ask about zombies or ghosts, matters with scientific evidence similar to those of the antiactivacin postulates. On this second shift, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u335	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u336	...we'd like you to complete your exhibition. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u337	For the Government's reply, Mr. Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today there has been an important change in this Parliament, because I believe that since the same group that a few weeks ago attacked the vaccines, today the spokesperson for En Marea has repeated the word vaccine on nine occasions; it means that there is an important change in just one week. That is, of course, the problem with anti-virgins is that they have no scientific basis and that they can cause disinformation in the population, and this is making Europe, in some European countries, an increase in, as I said, diseases that so far were going on in a clear decline, and that is a serious irresponsibility. I therefore think it is important for this Parliament to make it clear that vaccination is always safe and very effective. The Institute of Medicine Institute of Medicine, in the United States, since the late 1970s, through a committee, has conducted more than sixty vaccine safety studies to answer these issues, based on the monitoring systems of FDA-established safety alert signals, as well as a series of complex clinical trials compared to databases of millions of children. The report drawn up as a conclusion to these studies, the most comprehensive of these dates on the safety of the vaccination calendar, concludes that there are no safety problems associated with the child's calendar. In recent times there has been an increase in statements contrary to vaccination based, as I say, on false pseudo-scientific arguments, amplified by their dissemination to the media on social networks. So I want to bring here the collation an article published in a national newspaper by one of the leading European vaccination experts, who is Dr. Federico Martinón Torres — by the way, head of the Pediatric Service of the Hospital Complex of Santiago — who says: "When we use our professional status or position to argue publicly and effectively a position, which is, we are assuming a responsibility and, therefore, we should also assume the consequences of our irresponsibility." I think it sums up very well what's going on and, of course, I think, as I said at the beginning of this morning, there's a clear shift in the policy of vaccinating the opposition, which we believe should continue there. Vaccines save lives; they don't vaccinate kills. That's right, and we have to continue giving a speech of clarity to society. As I say, in Spain we are from countries where this concept is clearer. We are going to continue to work for this, to avoid, as I say, what happens in some European countries, and it is that unfortunately in recent years there has been an increase in cases of measles, for example, in Romania, in Italy or in Germany, and this ultimately leads to deaths, foreseeable infant deaths...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u339	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u340	Of course, we're working on all health services in Spain and, of course, in Greek, to avoid this. Thank you very much. And I think that posture should be clear: safety and effectiveness; undoubtedly vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u341	Thank you very much, Counselor. We turn to the following questions, which accumulate for the purpose of their realization, and are 6.7, 6.8 and 6.9. Question by Dr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da María Dolores Toja Suárez, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reasons of the Government of Greece to continue to announce Galicia's candidacy for the reception of the Community Bacteriological Control Laboratory of Bivalvos when it already knew the European Commission's decision to suppress it Question by Mr Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, by Mr P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the mechanisms for institutional coordination and information exchange between the Galician Union and the Central Government to continue to announce Galician candidacy for the reception of the Community Bacteriological Control Laboratory of Bivalvos when he already knew the European Commission's decision to suppress it Question by Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and two other Members, by G. P. de En Marea, on the reasons for the Government of Greece to continue announcing to the sea sector Galicia's candidacy for the reception of the Community Bacteriological Control Laboratory of Bivalvos when it already knew the European Commission's decision to suppress it
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u342	To put the question you have, first of all, the word Mr. Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u343	Thank you, President. Counselor, about five months ago we asked the socialists in this House about the actions he was taking or that he could take the Council to host this lab. We were talking about fearsome actions, of fearful petitions. You answered — certainly upset by this qualification — that they were working with the Ministry and with arguments, I quote: "That's how we did it from minute one, so we asked both the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health." We have arrived in September and we have proposed to this House, through Commission 8th, an agreement with the other groups to propose that Galicia be Spain's candidate for this laboratory. It is true that the People's Party tried to reduce that agreement, in collaboration with some other group, and yet we, in favour of consensus, thought it was better unanimity, although it was a reduced agreement, and so we promoted it. At the same time, we socialists are asking about this in the Congress of Deputies and in the European Union. In September, according to the Congress of Deputies, according to the Government of Spain, Galicia was a perfect candidate. In October it was a perfect candidacy. It came November and they had to confess. That candidacy was never possible, Counselor, and you knew it; you knew it from May. He knew it because the Ministry was at the meetings of the European Union where it was said that that laboratory would not be destined for any place because it would disappear. Not happy with that, the escape forward was much more interesting, because you announced — President Feijóo with you present and the health adviser; all the plan that was necessary administratively — in the Intemar, in Vilaxoán, in Vilagarcia, that they would launch the Intemar candidacy to host that laboratory; between the facts and the oropes, but ladies and gentlemen, it was a lie. Because the European Union has just revealed that there has never, ever been an official request; never. You've spent months announcing a candidacy that you've never applied for; you've spent months announcing that you were working on something you've never done, and we wonder why. Actually, Counselor, this is a terrible ridiculous thing, but it doesn't leave it bad just for you — which, of course, also — leaves an entire administration, for a whole community; it leaves us in a shameful spectacle. What we're wondering is why they wanted to take us for fools, because what was really left is that the acting of the Government of the Union was ridiculous, Counselor. We wondered if you lied because in fact there are only two options: either they were incompetent or they were liars. Either one is reason to feel disabled and therefore you have to resign, Counselor; you have to resign. [[Murmurs.]] But, in any case, before you resign, explain to us why you did it, and explain to us why it was possible for you to hold a candidacy when you knew it was impossible; why the president, Mr. Feijó, launched a candidacy when you knew it was impossible; why you said here that you were working with the Ministry and that you were asking for that candidacy, when it's not true; and why you came here saying that we didn't know what we were talking about and that we didn't worry about anyone who was already working, when it wasn't true. You may believe the lie is very interesting to have newspaper headlines, Counsellor, but it's not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u344	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u345	You have to resign, but first explain to us why these ads were presented, when they actually knew it was impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u346	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. To put the question now you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u347	As I have so little time to ask our question, it will allow me, as the European Union Reference Laboratory name for the follow-up of viral and bacteriological pollutants of bivalve molluscs is a rather long name, this parliamentary group is allowed to call it, to shorten, "farce laboratory", because what you've been doing over the last few months can only be called farce or spooky or some synonym, calote, etc. And look, this is very serious; it's very serious because you have responsibilities of government, it's very serious also because Galicia had everything to hold a strong position on this matter, and it didn't count on us anything thanks to her incompetence. We are marine power, we have natural resources, and we also have important research capital, which we refer to in many respects, among other things, in some bodies, such as what has just been mentioned, the Intemar. That is to say, there are arguments and points to the question that have also been debated in this Parliament's own Committee on Fisheries and in this very plenary. But you know what Galicia missed? Galicia has also failed to have a serious government, a government that has worked on this issue and has defended its country, instead of being making a permanent farce. Because what shows us the events of the past few weeks and what has just been revealed is that, in fact, Galicia maintains a feather weight in the Spanish state. This situation is actually unheard of. First we know now that the European Commission has decided to tackle "the Farsi laboratory" and that neither you nor anyone of the People's Party in any institution has done anything at all. Moreover, the representative of the Ministry of Health voted in favour. From July to December, you went on to say that Galicia was working to bring the lab here — now known as the "serious laboratory." You yourself lied openly in parliamentary headquarters, and now we know that the central government, with which you theoretically should work and cross some kind of phone call, common meetings and so on, knew for more than half a year that this lab would cease to exist. Not only did they know, but they voted in favour of it. We now know that in Brussels they have not received the slightest official request from this government — which has that vice to say what it does and then not make any requests —. And it's no longer that this story is trickling, it looks like a fiction script and it has neither feet nor heads, but that it's been several days that this is known and here nobody apologized, nobody asked forgiveness, nobody gave the slightest explanation that it might be happening, that it could have happened, and no one resigned, and the truth is, since the opposition, we're absolutely amazed. You've outlived any possible expectation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u348	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u349	...and we don't know, Mrs. Quintana, whether this is incompetence or alleviation. In any case, any of these two issues are extremely serious, and we would be grateful if I had given some answer today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u350	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u351	...some kind of political responsibility that explains to us whether this is what they call the People's Party "being on the right track", because of course we are not worth this political farce.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u352	Thank you very much. You have the floor, to put the question in this case, Mrs. Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u353	Counsellor, last week there was publicly a new deception, versus chapuza, from the throne, from his counsellorship and from the Government of Mr. Feijóo; a storyteller of the style of Mortadelo and Philemon with which they re-engaged the Greeks and the Greeks this year. We have to admit that if it's not so serious and it seriously harms sailors and seafarers, the research community set up in Galicia and citizenship in general, we could even be funny about this matter, because it's so surrealistic that it wouldn't even happen to Ibáñez himself. A new public boom of his government, this time on the account of the Community Bacteriological Control Laboratory of Bivalvos — this complicated name. Mr. President claimed in Vilagarcía on November 24 that the Romanian candidate was in that laboratory, which was in the United Kingdom, and that he would have to go back and find a place after Brexit. Once again, the superagents of the Welsh PP, commanded by Mr. Feijóo, took up their supervisory costumes and began making the ridiculous, but in this case by Europe ahead, and this time they were great. We have the news here: Mr Feijóo announced that Galicia would opt for the European Bivalves Laboratory without making a request to the European Union. How smart you are, Mrs. Quintana! They gave a star page to the president of the "TIA", Mr Feijóo, when he announced at the Intemar a candidature that he had never presented to an agency and that Dr. Bacterio's Government, Mr. Rajoy, sent the People's Group in Europe, to the parliamentary group of his party, voted to dissolve months before in Brussels. When Feió published this statement in the Intemar, they had known for three weeks that the Ministry knew on 17 May the European Union's intention to delete this laboratory. You in July — we also see it here, mentioned in this Parliament — announces in Parliament that Galicia aims to host the European Bivalves Laboratory. On 15 September we voted here at Commission 8th all unanimously to defend the best candidate for this laboratory. And we agree that the best candidacy was Galician candidacy. And then, on October 13, in Madrid, his group broke the consensus of most of the House, in Madrid, because they weren't for localisms. Then we could not support what was voted in this House unanimously. Then, on the 24th day, as we say, Mr. Feijóo said quite the opposite, and he supports this candidacy again. Who's in charge of the People's Party, Mrs. Quintana? The Greek MPs of the PP, of that big and united party? M. Rajoy sends more than A. Feijó? Because the only thing we've got to be clear is that what they agreed to was to keep a lie and deceive the whole citizenship and laugh at the Greeks and the Greeks. And as we imagine this time it won't be worth talking about Catalonia to justify what's wrong in Galicia and its lack of capacity, incompetence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u354	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u355	...and political ethics, because we would like to ask you how you can explain to the Galician Council that for months if you were fooling the sea sector and the research community with a promise that they knew perfectly well that it was impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u356	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. You have the floor to answer, by the Government, the sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u357	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Torrado, Mrs. Presas and Mrs. Santos, allow me to begin this answer with a reflection, which I understand you will understand well, that resides in that experience makes me believe in a very basic and old principle that says that it should not be judged before you have all the information. I say this because it is not the first time in this Parliament that this is done, and that some of those who accuse and attack must immediately make substantial use of their words. In this case I can believe that this Council has always had two conditions in this whole process: we work in good faith and we have done everything from the will to strengthen the efficiency of the controls of the bivalve molluscs. This has been like this since we announced it. There by October 2016 we announced our intention to work for obtaining that badge for Galicia. This is the case, and this is also the case in the Legal Opinion Report on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of the European Union and its possible consequences for the Galician fisheries sector, carried out by Professor Sobrino Heredia, Director of the Universitary Institute of European Studies Salvador de Madariaga. A specific chapter on the possible transfer of the laboratory currently located in the United Kingdom was already drawn up in the text of that report. And Professor Sobrino made that precision to our instance as a basis for starting that path that reinforced Galicia. And so we did on 9 May at this parliamentary headquarters, when I myself came to explain our position in front of Brexit. As a result, today we have reached a point where some people seem to want to forget two important facts: the first is that Junta has always demanded that this reference community laboratory badge come to Galicia, fleeing from localisms; the second, that we had nothing a year ago and today we know that we will take the fundamental part of the current laboratory, and, above all, that we are most interested in, that of the activities related to the classification and follow-up of the areas of production of bivalve molluscs. So we have an advance of what we had a year ago. But some people don't want to see that positive fact and they're left with the shape and not the background, and they don't meet the two premises that we're working on. Deep down, they don't respond to good faith and attack without knowing exactly what it is, apparently not knowing that the state has managed to bring to the community biotoxin reference laboratory that important part of the work that CEFAS is now doing. In this way, they do not expect to have the information and forget that the State responds to 27 other Member States and that the arguments and procedures of the European Commission also come into play. We want to know, and that's why we demand more information and all the relevant explanations. We want these explanations from the Government, who has the power to intervene in this matter in Brussels. We want — and we are sure that we will — to be given the transfer of these reasons and arguments from the other States and the European Commission itself, we want to know what failed in the information chain, because the employee understands that it was the usual one, even though we want to understand that from Aecosan, from Reper and from the National Laboratory everything was done right. We want to know what the reasons were for this proposal to eliminate the laboratory as such, and to confirm that it was the operation, concentration and specialization to which this decision was based. Of course, what I'm not going to allow is that you say you're wrong, that you're talking about old ladies and liars, when you should know the community decision-making procedure. We don't fool anyone, either by action or by default, since all the information is public. And I'm saying this for a number of reasons that I'm going to try to explain. The first is that I think it is important to clarify the European decision-making procedure in this area, because perhaps several explanations come out. Because you're taking as if you're locked up something that in May wasn't. Anyone who knows something of this European procedure knows that this was not closed, for two reasons: one, because the committee itself to which you refer is not the one who decides or approves, and thus reflects the procedure made explicit in the Council Decision of 28 June 1999 laying down procedures for the exercise of the implementing powers conferred on the Commission, as is the case; two, because at that time it was a proposal, and thus it is collected when it is said that the Commission also highlighted its intention to launch a process to replace the reference laboratories currently located in the United Kingdom, pointing out that for the bivalve molluscs laboratory its competence would be distributed into different existing European Union reference laboratories. I say this because, if you review the agenda of that committee, you will see that this matter is neither in the main document nor in the addendum, and it is only collected in the summary, whether it is in other matters and always as a proposal. If so, if it was then decided, what did they vote later in October? Did they vote twice for the same thing? Where is the vote that day? Have the decisions been made in Brussels without going on the agenda and in a stupid way? I understand not. On the other hand, in the month of October, and as a continuation of the usual decision-making process when they are executional powers, the ruling on this matter is poured out. And yet it was not closed. It should be recalled that this procedure is carried out in accordance with Articles 3 and 5 of the decision I mentioned earlier, which regulates the consultative procedure in these cases. Well, this statement is binding but not binding, and in it we had clearly difficult to get airy with our position, when all the Member States present voted in favour of the Commission's proposal to bring this implementing regulation forward. It must be remembered that in this standing committee of vegetables, animals, food and thought, in its biological security formation of the food chain, in addition to the Ministry, through Aecosán, Catalonia may also participate as a representative of the autonomous communities, which is responsible for the transmission of information to the other autonomys. This procedure therefore follows the normal steps and is subsequently informed to Parliament at its meeting on 16 November 2017. Coreper, at his meeting on 6 December, discussed the document. Finally, the Council of Ministers for Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumers adopted this matter as a non-legislative point on 7 December. It is certainly important to point out here that this approval is in fact a mere verification that the Commission does not go beyond its competences and does not invade the procedures for codecision, so it is difficult to stop this kind of Commission proposal itself. In this case, reference must be made to two issues which must be reflected in this process: one, which we believe that this Commission proposal, formulated from a department leading the socialist Vytenis Andriukaitis, is not of easy opposition, and we suppose that it will have its foundations and reasons to propose them; two, that Galicia has always been working, since she knows that proposal, in the bivalve working group of June, and that it has conveyed its position again in July to the Ministry, given the importance of this fact. Therefore, the candidacy was not impossible, nor was nothing closed, nor on November 24th, nor when you began to ask for responsibilities for alleged deceptions or similar things. As I was saying, on May 17, nothing was officially dealt with on the matter, and nothing had decided on the appointed committee on October 18. What's ahead of you is that we will continue to intend to offer DG Sante our experience and know how to do so, if you reconsider Andrukaitis's proposal, to be able to accommodate the remaining parts of the laboratory that are not currently coming to Vigo. So I keep telling you that we need more than ever the unity of all to keep telling you that Galicia can accommodate this laboratory forever. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u358	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica shift, you have the word, first of all, Mr. Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u359	Counselor, I'm going to try to be careful with the claims, and that's why we're going to retrieve some data. You speak of good faith and collaboration. I'll tell you about our July debate. I quote the Socialist Group: "Let's be in support of this firm and determined bet if it really is the Council's will." I say to you, "Take it easy. We, from Galicia, will make a firm and determined bet so that this community reference laboratory can come to Galicia." Mr. Andriukaitis... you've already found a culprit, you've already found a culprit. Official reply by the European Union, point 2, on 8 December: "On 18 October 2017, the European Union Reference Laboratory was presented to the Standing Committee, blah, blah..., so the European Union Reference Laboratory is deleted." Point 1 — and I read in Spanish, because I think I need to read exactly the text — "The Commission has not received any official notification or request from any Member State regarding the relocation of the European Union reference laboratory for monitoring the viral and bacteriological components of bivalve molluscs". But it is, Counselor, you quote me — the truth is, when you want to hide such a big lie, sometimes something escapes — you quote me that the justification that in May nothing was known is that if you had to vote in October. Well, you had to vote in October, actually, you're here, I have that record, where the Ministry is, it's not Catalonia, it's the Ministry. You guys had to talk to the Ministry. By the way, if you voted and decided in October, what does Mr Feijó do by announcing it on November 24th? But what does Mr. Feijó do by announcing it on November 24th? [[Applause]] You're telling me that, yes, you in July didn't have any blame, because in May you didn't know anything. Now, Mr. Feijóo, let him go, shall he? Did you just condemn Mr. Feijóo saying that the liar is him? Man, free him from that question. I'm telling you, if you weren't a liar, you were incompetent. If Mr. Feijóo wasn't a liar, he was incompetent. And either one is a reason for resignation. You, Counselor, have just been portrayed in the minutes of the European Commission, in the official replies and even in your own words, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u360	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Now, for the replica shift, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u361	Counselor, you come here and say we've come here to accuse and without information. It's less bad we've come to ask. But do you know why we came here with the information we have and not anymore? Because you have had a few precious days when you could have come around the press, you could have sent information to Parliament, you could make company notes — from the press, yes, I missed a word, relax a bit — or you could even do that exotic thing, which is to appear in the German Parliament on your own request to explain when you step up. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] They could have done that and they didn't. And, in any case, you just insisted that they always demanded the lab. I'd like to know how, because I, when I present an application to an internal process, to an election, or when I introduce myself to a job, register something, put a document on the table. I won't read you again what Mr. Torrado has just read, but logically, or mind Brussels, or mind you, or mind someone here. That's, in every light, obvious. Then, as always, the People's Party agrees with the crumbs. Then you come up with the ready argument that we had nothing and now we have a little bit. But, of course, the Galician Nationalist Block doesn't do us any good. Because it must be remembered, it must be remembered, if — those who are making noise there do not know if they know — that the extinct Farsi laboratory had for this biennium an budget of just over 1.8 million, which is 0.03% of the entire budget of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, if now that crumb squirms into several pieces, do you even know what part of economic tale would come to Galicia and what could we do with that? Would we be able to do something or would we have to settle for having a typhoon that is useless to us and that would not place our country as a reference, as if it could place that lab?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u362	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u363	Of course, we don't value the argument of conforming to the crumbs, nor the argument of circumventing responsibilities, and simply conforming to seeing if someone somewhere in front of us reconsiders something. They have a little shame, they do their job, and they make Galicia have a strong position in this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u364	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u365	And, above all, they give explanations, because that's what you should do as a government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u366	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u367	Because it's very easy to come here and, for example, in the amendments to the budgets to say that we leave the Council without a telephone and make fun of the opposition proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u368	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u369	But if you need a phone to call Madrid, let's leave it at BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u370	Mrs. Santos Queiruga has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u371	Madam Quintana, leave us with no words. I don't know what part we have to explain to you again so that you understand that everything you just explained is incompatible with that Mr. Feijóo announces that Galicia opts for this lab without making any requests. We don't know which part doesn't understand that it's incompatible with what you're talking about, and that it's proven to be a lie, with which your group in Europe votes in favour of suppressing this laboratory. And it's incompatible with all the argument, which is a lie after a lie, with which you want to make us here image-washed, when it's impossible for you to try to cover up such a big lie. Mr Feijóo should at least ask you a bit of self-criticism — you, Mrs Quintana — which are the characters who accompany you in this comic book of dispropositions in which you have gone to Galicia. And then you talk about localisms here. You should know that's what your group said against most of the House, in Madrid, when we are the largest seafood producers in Spain and Europe; and, in the case of the mexillon, the world. Well, there we are, there we are with Chile. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] His government's intentions and occurrences are constantly boisterous to us. They become aware of once that the absolute majority are no excuse for doing what they want, for lying, for making fun of us everywhere. They're not an empty check, they realize they're hurting Galicia, they're so obsessed with propaganda that they forget to rule. You forget to make proposals, do your job, and everything is propaganda, propaganda and propaganda. Stop hiding your head, like ostriches, in Madrid. We know they're constantly giving them collections. We know you don't paint anything in the big united People's Party. And actually the problem we have in Galicia is a government of alleged supervisors who don't only know what they have to do but Madrid takes advantage of it to harm Galicia on issues that are key to our economy and our people. They have deceived us all with total disregard, including the representatives of this House. How do you think the sea sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u372	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u373	...the research community and the citizenship will believe anything? How will they take them seriously when they manage quotas? It's normal for the sector to say at least they save the plane trip and don't spend everybody's money...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u374	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u375	...to do the ridiculous thing in the European Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u376	Thank you very much. For the Government's replica shift, you have the floor of the Counsellor, Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u377	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Torrado, Mrs. Presas, Mrs. Santos, the truth is that Galicia is very wise, and there is a saying that says, "Tell me what you're assuming and I'll tell you what you lack." And the truth is, you come here accusing me of lying, accusing me of cheating, accusing me of... of... doing some internal analysis and looking at who's lying and who's cheating. I said here that Galicia was the best place for that lab to be. I'm still saying Galicia is the best place to locate that lab. I continue to say that whoever has taken the decision, which is a Commissioner of the Commission, of DG Sante, of the European Union, will have to explain why, while the United Kingdom is part of the European Union, the laboratory must be unique and, at the time the United Kingdom leaves the European Union, the laboratory must be divided. I can't find an explanation, but I hope they'll give it to me. Look, here's deceptions, deceits, some of them that talked about, some of them talking about, because while they were running they bet on a change of biotoxin detection method, transforming it into a chemical method, in front of which was a person directing Aecosan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u378	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u379	Which is the same person who represents the Government of Spain in these decisions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u380	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u381	I have to defend this as a researcher, as a political and as a person, because I have believed it, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u382	Quiet. Mrs. Santos, please...!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u383	That's how I believe it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u384	Counselor, excuse me for a moment. I'm asking for everyone. You're using the word "a Member", "a Counsellor." So listen to who's in the use of the word. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You are not in the use of the word, to begin with. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're not in the use of the word. [[Murmurs.]] So, please, be quiet, all, all and all. No, everyone, always. [[Murmurs.]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u385	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue. I think you can't confuse, deceive and lie. We don't confuse, we don't cheat, we don't lie. Our position is, and will be the same. And we'll keep working on that line. And I've brought them forward in my first speech that in January I've had an appointment with DG Sante's director to go there and ask for constructive explanations. Because in these things there are people who always want to do a political war and that's not the way. And I tell you that and I repeat it, because here in this group it is defended today that the Intemar is a magnificent laboratory that everyone values and international recognition. But I have to remember here that every time you jump a health alert and someone outside you mean it was because of a malfunction of the Intemar, here in this House they go out all the groups attacking the Intemar. And that's no way to defend Galicia. [[Applause]] We have to keep working in a technical and scientific way, which is the decision... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] The explanation is giving. It's not insulting. Let me speak, please, that I hear them all with respect. When you don't let yourself talk, it's when you don't have the truth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u386	Silence! Mrs. Pontón, please let us all hear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u387	Let me talk and let me explain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u388	Please, let's listen to everyone. [[Murmurs.]] Let's hear it all, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u389	Am I telling a lie when I say that, when there's a health alert, the first one to criticize is the Intemar? Are there any arguments in all media attacking the Intemar? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Last year, two years ago, three years ago... when the Intemar had to propose a working group to be able to find a correction factor for certain cane toxins, was that also a failure of the Intemar or was it a failure of the chemical method, what did you defend? Man, please! [[Applause]] We're going to defend rigor and we're going to defend science! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We didn't want the lab for the Intemar, we wanted it for Galicia. And we understand that in Galicia there are deeply qualified research groups that have the ability to do this management. [[Applause]] The only thing we ask is, because of the importance of the bivalve molluscs to Galicia, that that laboratory that was united in the United Kingdom remains united once the United Kingdom leaves the European Union. And that's what we're still demanding. We understand that there may be some justification when they tell us that the salmonella part is going to a laboratory that is already specific to salmonella, the scherichia coli part goes to a laboratory that is already specific to scherichia coli, the virus part goes to a laboratory that is already accredited to virology, and the control part of production areas goes to the community biotoxin reference laboratory, which is located in Galicia, which is the most important one. You say we settle for the crumbs. This isn't about crumbs, no. It's about the economic importance of decisions made by scientists when they make certain values to say whether a product can or cannot be suitable for human consumption. And that's what we're looking for. And the most important part of that lab, which is precisely that of the official controls in the production areas, is the part that was managed to come to Galicia. We don't pull the towel, we keep working. If you continue to support us, we can believe that in Galicia, in all universities, in the Campus do Mar and in the community reference laboratory itself, we have specialists who can perform all these functions. Of course, from the Intemar, without losing the special functions of the Intemar, which is a control laboratory — which we do more than 100,000 daily analyses and we cannot divert our attention — we are also willing to continue to support it so that if we reconsider the position in the European Union, we can come to Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-20-DSPG055.u390	Thank you very much, Counselor. At the end of the agenda, we raised the session. And happy parties to all.
