ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u1	Good morning. We're going to resume the session. Before I enter the session, I would like to comment on the fact that 20 years of the kidnapping and subsequent murder of Miguel Ángel Blanco is now taking place. And that's why I invite all your lords and guests who are in the gallery to keep a minute of silence in their memory and in the memory of all the victims of terrorist barbarism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u2	Thank you. [[Applause]] We resumed the session with questions for the President's oral answer. We started with the accumulated debate of Mr. Xoaquín's questions Maria Fernández Leiceaga and Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u3	Yes, Mrs. Pontón, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u4	Mr President, even if you are not a guesser, I am sure you are perfectly aware that I am asking for a matter of order, precisely because of the accumulation that you have just announced. I want you to bear in mind in this plenary and in this Parliament the formal complaint of our group and the deep disagreement with the questions we have raised to the President of the Galician Union. It is clear that this accumulation distorts the meaning of this control session, which is designed so that each group, with its approach, with its proposals and with the support it wants to ask you that question, can formulate them. And it seems clearly that the President of the Board wants to be held in a joint debate every time he has occasion. I also want to point out that, as you do the accumulation of questions, what is changing the rules of play in this Parliament. If I'm the same question, why give you twice as much time to answer the president? If this is the same question, what can't be said is that the President, suddenly, because you decide it, has twice as much time as the regulation itself takes. And you know that times in a parliament are important, that are important for a debate. They are marked in the Rules of Procedure, and clearly what is being done with the accumulation is to try to give more advantage to the President of the Board when, moreover, he has the last word to close the debate. I think it's abuse. We have ended this period of sessions in which, in addition, our group, for the second time, sees how their questions accumulate, which prevents us from having a debate of you with the president of the board. I don't know if that's exactly what you want to avoid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. As you know, the decision to accumulate questions is a decision of the President of Parliament, not of the President of the Union. The President of the Council does not come in here, the President of Parliament comes in. Secondly, with regard to time, I am the only thing I do to take as a reference the time that historically occurred here when there is an accumulated debate. This is not the first time that an inclusive debate is taking place in this Parliament. So, I think... and besides, I'm respecting, as it can't be otherwise, the Rules of Procedure. It couldn't be any other way. We therefore begin with the accumulated debate on the following questions. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the balance made by the Government of Greece with regard to their defence of the interests of Galicia in relation to the X legislation Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the balance of management carried out by the Greek Government in the first half of 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u6	He begins by asking his question, Mr. Fernández Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u7	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, since the last autonomous elections, my impression is that his political star shines less in the framework of Spanish politics. It's weighing little on that policy—thinking, not thinking, that I don't know— The People's Party Government keeps giving you bad news and I'm going to give you some examples. The PNV managed to remove Mr. Rajoy's Government from the connection of the port of Bilbao and its logistics platforms to the European railway corridor. What about Galicia? For there was nothing, there were no funds for Plisán's connection to the current railway line, and we are no longer talking about the modernization of the railway connection with the port of Vigo or the start of the line which, via Monforte up to Sale of Bathrooms, would make it possible to connect the Greek ports to the European corridor. In state investments for Galicia in 2017 we lost 400 million euros, mainly for AVE. As they've been running around 40% of the planned funds for five years, we're accumulating a delay in AVE funding of more than €2,200 million, equivalent to about four years of investment. In 2017 the funds are cut off because it used to be spent less; that is, as we have to, we don't pay him now. That's the conclusion of this case. And finally, Mr Rajoy reminded us at the beginning of the debate on self-financing that the communities of common regime would have to adjust to what there is. But the quota communities, in this case the Basque Country, condemn 1,400 million euros and reduce the coupon to 400 million a year. There's nothing for Galicia. And now, the AP-9 veto, perpetrated with premeditation, with alleviation and repetition. Mr. Rajoy's government once vetoed the law with questionable criteria. We refocused it by taking care of the details, introducing backup clauses to avoid the veto, conveniently advised just so there would be no problems. We unanimously adopted this bill in the Galician Parliament — with its vote too — clean, let us say, as a package of financial consequences for the General Administration of the State. But Minister De la Serna has already stated before anything that the title had to stay where he was, before even analyzing the bill. How would you qualify this performance if you were in opposition? And in the meantime, the Galician Union gives away the Ministry of Development by creating commissions and putting alongside it. How did Mr. Rajoy's Government respond to this understanding attitude? Again vetoing the bill with fallacies and conceptual nonsense. The Ministry's report has seen with pseudo-arguments the previous position that the Minister has already taken. The Ministry of Development despises the Galician Parliament, and with it all. He laughs at all, and that includes you, too, and he wants us to swallow with mill wheels. And while you're still holding an AP-9 management commission, a commission of servitude, submission and discredit of our self-government. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, as long as he doesn't consider anyone to be ungrateful to the Minister of Development and to break institutional relations with him, giving the AP-9 management commission for closure, he's going to appear to be an accomplice in this situation, he's going to appear to be an accomplice. Perhaps it is not, perhaps it is mere impotence to, in this situation, have the ability to defend Galician interests in front of Mr. Rajoy's Government. But to win that credit, it has to be direct, powerful and firm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u8	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Question by Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u9	Good morning. This is the last ordinary full-time of this session and my question is whether you honestly think you've won your vacations. I can assure you that, seeing what the balance of the course is, you have a suspension like a cathedral, because you take not only one course, but eight years applying the same method of study completely failed. A method of study which is essentially summed up in not listening to anyone unless he gives him the reason, and being absolutely submissive to Rajoy's decisions, whatever it takes and who falls. And what is the result? Well, let me explain with a few examples. Young people have only two options: emigration or precariousness. Our pensioners still have the second lowest pensions in the state. Close public schools while giving more resources to private education. And it has created a conflict in the transport sector, which I already tell you is not going to be resolved either with rage and pride or with the order and command of the Board of Trustees. The problem with this failed method is not that you suspend — that we would take you with joy, I can almost tell you. The problem is that Galicia stays behind, the problem is that it makes our country repeat year after year the same subjects. One more year, Galicia is going to lose 3,500 million because you don't negotiate a fair funding system; one more year late in AVE as we see in other territories decades of enjoying it; one more year of state discrimination with Galicia with a cut of 442 million euros while others have gotten a rain of millions; one more year of banking scams with thousands of people you leave alone and with the ultimate of the Greek financial system; one more year we see how the corruption of the People's Party can put 300 jobs at risk on the Death Coast if you yield to the blackmail of Villar Mir. And another year, Mr. Feijóo, the Welsh and Welsh, Galician, supports the AP-9 beaches while Rajoy has 4,000 or what he needs to rescue the Madrid radials. And allow me to stop a little more on the AP-9 theme in view of the latest news. You announced us a rise of the fees, and you start the kilometre withholdings with zero sanctions to Audasa. And we have Rajoy's second shameful veto to a law that we have unanimously approved in this Parliament requesting the transfer. And I ask him: will you continue with the method of submission to Rajoy or, as his slogan said, will you exercise as a militant in Galicia? I suggest you, Mr. Feijóo, change your method, exercise as President of Galicia. There's one thing that's very simple. You can raise your phone and remind Ana Pastor, President of Congress, who is a Member for Pontevedra, who would be indecent to betray the interests of the people who chose her, including you, who I suppose voted for. This, Mr. Feijóo, is not about legal reports, this is about to be respected as a country. If he doesn't, what we're left with is to think that in this AP-9 thing he did was to mark a lighthouse and that everything was a Parish. And believe me we don't want to think that. And for all this, I ask you, Mr. Feijóo, if you really think you won your vacations with this file.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, you say that after the autonomous elections in Galicia, our political star shines less. That's a way of understanding the achievement of an absolute majority. I certainly never felt as happy as being President of the Union as in the past half. I tell you to clarify: this last semester is the best of Galicia since the year 2008; and this last semester, Your Honor, is the semester with more positive news from Galicia, Galicia and Galicia since the year 2008. That doesn't mean, Your Honor, that the balance I make from this beginning of legislation, from December until now, is not prudent enough to continue to show concern: concern, because there are still many Greeks and many Greeks who have no work, and concern because economic recovery needs to be consolidated. But it doesn't mean we shouldn't be optimistic about all the irrefutable data, Mr. Leicega. You know that the Greek economy is growing more than ever since 2008; you know that unemployment in Galicia is falling more than ever since 2008; you know that public education bets, public health and social services are becoming more and more intensive than since 2008. Your Honor, we've been growing to 3% for three years. Everything invites us to think that this year we will return to the 3% barrier. Since we took over government, household consumption is rising three times as much as in the rest of Spain; exports continue to record history every six months; the public deficit is still controlled; public debt remains below average by five points, in terms of GDP, of autonomous communities; we are the second autonomous community that pays best in the whole state; in areas of unemployment, today we have less unemployment than when you were in the Government, in full economic goodness. Your Honor, today, since the beginning of the legislation, we have 16,000 unemployed less and 16,000 more members of Social Security, i.e. unemployment in Galicia, since the beginning of the legislation, lowers 70 people every day! Your Honor, we have projects for rural areas; we have projects for self-employed people, agreed with them; we have projects for industry 4.0 — ask Citroën or Televés or others — and we have projects for internationalization and, in fact, companies are exporting more than ever; we have a tourism plan; we have nothing more and nothing less than a whole training and employment promotion agenda for all legislation. That's why I'm surprised you come here with these kinds of questions. In any case, there you are; but if I would like, since they talk about specific issues, to talk about specific issues. You tell me about AP-9. I am very pleased to have this AP-9 debate, Mrs. Pontón, Mr. Leicega. You were against us asking for the transfer of AP-9 — yes, Your Honor, it is in the Journal of Sessions. And that's why we always had the same approach: when we were in the opposition and in the government we wanted the transfer of AP-9. You, when you were supporting the Government of Madrid, against the transfer of AP-9!, Mrs. Pontón, this is within the biography of the German nationalists! And now it turns out you're surprised that the Government of Spain continues to pose the same as it has always posed, with the PSOE and with the PP: not to the transfer of AP-9. But we'll follow, Mr. Leicega. We have three objectives: the first, which, in fact, in AP-9, do not make investments without the Council of Galicia: the objective achieved. According to the objective, they pay the money that the Greeks are paying for at the rate of Rande and at the rate of Barcala: seven million euros each year, 180 million euros until the year 2048. As a matter of purpose, let the Government of Spain pay them. Since he says the title of the highway is the government, he pays. And, third of all, get the transfer. Mr. Leicega, I hope you will accompany me on these three goals, or do you want us to pay for the fares of Rande and Barcala, as they have agreed to the PSOE and the BNG with the Government of Spain, and not ask for the transfer, as they have agreed to the PSOE and the BNG? Mr. Leicega, Mrs. Pontón, you tell me about the AVE. We are the second autonomous community with the largest investment in Spain per inhabitant: we have 11% of the total budget of the Ministry of Development; when you were in government, they were on the 8th. And don't forget, Mr. Leicega: don't have a bad conscience, but the "you're in" a year without a budget and without a government in Spain has its consequences in the delay of AVE. I said in front of the minister that we are not satisfied with the slip, with the delay of three quarters — at the end of 2019 — in the AVE, and I keep it in the Chamber. But there's a certain and concrete date in Galicia: that the AVE comes into testing in 2019 and that tickets are sold in 2020. Mr. Leicea, you're not gonna push me away from Galicia's interests, no matter what. About Euskadi, what are you talking about, Mr. Leicega? Are you against getting what the Socialist Party of Basquedi, supporting the government of Basquedi, asks in Victoria, and now it turns out that you're against, in Santiago? Mr. Leicega, you must have some memory, because the Greeks also know how to read the newspapers outside of Galicia. You say the coupon is badly found in Euskadi, and here, it is overfinanced. Mr. Leicega, I said the usual: that the coupon is not explained enough and that there is no transparency of the Government, of my Government in Spain, with the agreements of the PNV; and I reiterate it as President of Galicia; and that is why I join Galicia, Mrs. Pontón, you have no doubt. And as a militia in Galicia I will defend the transports of the Greeks. I will defend the transport of the Greeks from the rural environment; I will defend the transport of the small and medium-sized company; I will defend the transport of the workers, their subrogation and their contracts. Mrs. Pontón, who are you defending in the transport? I hope it's time to reply or clear up. We are defending the workers; to whom do you defend in the transport, Mrs. Pontón? It's very clear to those who defend you in the transport, the workers already know: the employer. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u13	I understand that yesterday he was not very pleased with the provision of his advisor to Fairy; so today he has to come here and repeat the arguments. But I'm not going in on it, I'm not going in on it, I'm not going in on it. [[Applause]] The question of quota is easy to understand: if there is money for autonomous communities for the financing of basic services, it must be shared with criteria of necessity. And you, like me, know that the financing of the Autonomous Basque Community is above, quite above, of the communities of common regime and, in particular, Galicia. So if there's money for the Basque Country, it's also here: that's what I claim. I suppose you'll agree with me, Mr. President of the Board. But look, I don't want you to explain why Mr. Rajoy has punished him: you and he will know. I wouldn't worry if it wasn't because, punishing the president of the board, they're punishing Galicia, and that can't be. And if you can't, what you have to do is ask for help from those who are willing to collaborate, because we offer to close agreements in favour of Galicia's interests. We've done it in part in the funding; exactly, what you didn't want was to ask Mr. Rajoy for more resources. And we must also do so in infrastructure: we must close a great pact, a great pact in infrastructure, which needs this country, and we need an agreement to overcome the resistance of the People's Party's Government to undergo the transfer of AP-9; we need that agreement. Look at this: Mr. Rajoy's government veto to the discussion of AP-9 law in the Congress of Deputies is a veto to discussion, not to the result: there's nothing more anti-democratic than this. In fact, the People's Party in Madrid is acting as an anti-system party, which is unable to respect the task of each of the constitutional bodies, which is corrupting the functioning of institutions by partisan interests. And in this case, the veto must be referred to by the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, in which the PP has a decisive position and in which it is — if so — Mrs Ana Pastor, Member for Pontevedra, of its own group. I heard your group misdefined the position of the Minister of Development. I think it's a cynical position, but in any case we accept the mistake, mistakes are made. Maybe the members of the Congress table don't know the reasons of the Galician Parliament: let's explain it, let's do a committee of a person per group to address the Congress Bureau, with Ana Pastor in mind, and explain our reason, let's explain to them that we're not claiming the funds today. I agree with you on all these issues that you raised in relation to AP-9, but they're not enough: we also get the transfer and we start managing that infrastructure from here. Let us let them know, with this peaceful embassy of the reason and dignity of this Parliament, that we let them know our explanations why the law of AP-9 should be dealt with. Let us tell you that we are not talking about the recovery of the concession, that financial matters have to be discussed in the Joint Transfer Commission, and that any financial burden on the General Administration of the State is transferred to a subsequent budget, because that is what is in the law, which is no excuse for that bill to be stopped. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, if you want to regain credibility on this subject, you break relationships with the minister, disable the AP-9 commission and until this matter is resolved...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u15	... accept this commission that I propose to explain the reasons to Mrs. Ana Pastor and, if not, I have already told her that I will ask the other opposition groups to call for an extraordinary plenary to deal with this issue in the coming weeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u16	Thank you, Mr. Leicega. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u17	Mr. Feijóo, why do you deceive the Greeks and the Greeks? Tell me. Why do you have to come to this Parliament to lie about history and about the reality and responsibility of everyone? Look, the BNG in transport is very clear: we defend the workers and the workers, we defend the users and we defend the schoolchildren, who are entitled to decent transport. And we argue that we don't finish some part of our country's business fabric, as it seems you want. What are you defending, Mr. Feijóo? [[Applause]] Making public transport a business? That the advisor's advisor takes millionaire contracts to make some lines that are an absolute disaster? What are you defending, that two transnationals stay with all public transport and that instead of defending users we see how big companies do business with a service that is public? But look, as far as the AP-9 is concerned, you have a very fragile memory. What was the first government that requested the transfer of AP-9? It wasn't his, no; it was the Government that ruled legitimately and democraticly Galicia between 2005 and 2009. And you came here to welcome the government's proposals and now you intend to create a great lie, when that was the first time that the transfer was requested. Do you know what you've done about AP-9 before?: to come to this Parliament to justify the privatisation of AP-9 and the enlargement of the tariffs until 2053. That's your service wallet, it's in the logbooks that you came here to tell us that nothing happened to the privatization of AP-9, that it was a good business for Galicia to sell AP-9 for 1,500 million euros, and have to pay by the year 2053. This was your letter of presentation in Galicia as Territorial Policy Advisor for AP-9. So, Mr. Feijóo, lessons on AP-9, zero; lessons on AP-9, zero! And look, do you know who was the first group that brought this Parliament a proposal for transfer through a law?: o BNG. And if we're here today, it's because of that initiative, not the Government's initiative. That same law could be passed years ago, because it was debated at the Congress of Deputies and your party, Mr Feijóo, the People's Party, voted against this transfer. But look, I recommend you don't confuse yourself as an enemy. At the BNG we're working to get AP-9, to get that transfer and end the scam of the beaches that suffer every day thousands of Greeks. On this subject you have the enemy at home. One is sitting in the Ministry of Development, another is sitting in the presidency of the Congress of Deputies and another is sitting in the presidency of the Government. I ask you, Mr. Feijóo, to change your script, are you willing to face that trident or simply come here, in relation to the theme of AP-9, see if they put that behind you in Madrid and if you remove a problem? Because you're a suspect that you don't even...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u19	...he had raised the phone to call Mrs. Ana Pastor and asked her to stand up in Congress for that veto. Because the decision depends on the Bureau of Congress, and Mrs Ana Pastor's vote is absolutely crucial for that consideration. Are you willing to pick up that phone or do you just prefer to sit down and stand up for it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u21	Look, your position on the theme of AP-9 is squeezing the ridicule, just like your statements on the subject of state investments. Basque Country, Catalonia, Valencia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u23	...all made multimillionaire investments. Accelerating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u24	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u25	...is accelerating stroke in the corridor of the Mediterranean, and what do you leave this country, Mr. Feijóo? How can we not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u26	Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u27	What do you leave this country, Mr. Feijóo? How are we not...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u28	Time's up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pontón, we're not going on vacation. We have to make the ceiling. I hope to enjoy your presence in the plenary where we approve the spending ceiling. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mrs. Pontón, tell you if I lie to Galicia. In his replica turn he told four falsities, four! [[Murmurs.]] The first one. That if the advisor has a transport adviser that gives him contracts. False. You should check who gave that person a contract in the government, the Bipartite. [[Murmurs.]] The second one. That you were defending the transfer of AP-9. Journal of Sessions, 30 March 2007. Votes against the transfer of AP-9, that of Mrs. Pontón and her colleagues from the BNG and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Mr. Leicega, were you a Member then? You voted against the AP-9 transfer, and so did you, Mrs. Pontón. You, too. [[Applause]] Third. Multimillionaire investments in the Levante. Turns out when you were in government they wanted 8% of the total state investment, and now that we have 11%, you complain. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, Mrs. Pontón, the last one. Who defends the transport workers? Defend the workers who do a job so that workers will automatically be subrogated to the concessional lines, whoever the employer is being adjudicate. That's what the workers stand for. [[Applause]] He defends workers to the General Workers' Union and Workers' Commissions, and not some union that has a grip on the employer and you represent. Mrs. Pontón, in four minutes you said so many falsehoods that I don't have time to answer many more. Mr. Leicega, do you mind if it bothers you that the Greek economy has been better than ever since 2008? Does it bother you that the first semester of this year is the best semester since I am President of the Union? Does it bother you that all economic and social indicators are positive, Mr. Leicega? You now propose that we reject the figure of the Minister of Development. But, Mr. Leicega, don't you remember that you and the BNG didn't want to reprobate the Minister of the Galician Honey Plan... Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez? But, Mr. Leicega, do you not remember what your party did when it ruled? Did Mrs. Pontón, at the Senate or the BNG prevent Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez from being reprobated? That's right. She's been rejected by the votes and the courts. Mr. Leicega, a little respect for memory. [[Applause]] A little respect for the memory, which we have in Galicia. Mr. Leicega, you propose to help us with the transfer of AP-9. I agree. I proposed three questions to you. First, a commission that's working for AP-9's investments to deal with Galicia. The second one, recovering 180 million for the Greeks and not paying the fees of a state highway. And the third, insist and persist as long as it takes for the transfer of AP-9. Do we agree, Mr. Leicega? Let's keep the unit. But would you agree to assume the transfer of AP-9 and that Galicia had paid the fees of Rande and Barcala? Would you sign that transfer? Not me, I anticipate it. I will therefore not sign any transfer which would entail an increase in expenditure to Galicia as a result of the assumption of that competition. First we clean up the transfer, we clean up AP-9 of budgetary obligations, and we continue to request the transfer of AP-9 is ruling whoever you are, Mr. Leicega. Is that the covenant you proposed to me? I'll take it. Now, if you're proposing to me spure pacts like continuing to pay a fee to the Government of Spain with the money of the Greeks on a state-owned highway, don't tell me about that joke you signed. Don't count on me for that, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, I tell you with absolute cordiality: I am not going to talk about your balance ever since you are a spokesperson of the group, but — as you will imagine — I think all the Greeks know: crisis, division and confusion. Now they finally know who's sent to the Socialist Party; they send exactly the one who drew the worst data from the history of the Socialist Party. Now you know they want to be older; older they want to be allies of the tides of Podemos. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And now you have a clear project for Spain: in Madrid they are against the self-determination referendum in Catalonia, and in Catalonia they want to participate in that self-determination referendum. What we don't know yet, Your Honor, is who is in charge of the Socialist Party in Galicia. I'm sure we'll find out after the holidays. You'll understand, Mrs. Pontón, that Mr. Leicega has to take vacations. In any case, Mrs. Pontón, you will understand that the balance of the BNG during these months has been enlightening. Mrs. Pontón, the first thing you've done with the BNG for these six months in which you are the leader was to change soon. Now BNG's letters are no longer in upper case, they're in lower case. Probably, Your Honor, because that's the most important contribution you've made. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Pontón and Mr. Leicega, if you're serious about the AP-9 transfer, we agree. If they want to continue requesting the transfer of AP-9, it contains with the Government, with the majority group, with the President of the Union. Now, if what they want is just to make noise, there you are! but I feel very calm, very satisfied and very honest with my political position. I've been asking for the transfer of AP-9. I know now is not the best time to make transfers to autonomous communities. Yes. I know there are now many highways in Catalonia for which the transfer of the state to the Generalitat in Catalonia is requested. Yes. I know now, Your Honor, it's the worst time to talk about transfers. Yes. But, accepting all this, I cannot accept, Your Honor, that the transfer of a road vital to Galicia is conditional on the structural and territorial problems of the Spanish State.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u31	That's my position, Mr. Leicega, but, of course, it only takes me to confirm that we are honestly looking at Galicia's interests, that we have no commitment to anyone but to the Greeks, and that we have been in the best semester since the year 2008, when this legislation began. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Question by D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the assessment made by the Government of Greece regarding the management carried out in relation to the last conflicts arising in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u33	Question by Don Luis Villares Naveira, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, finish the course and therefore it's time to swing. You've received a majority to rule and people have entrusted you with the government, and at the end of this first course people think the situation is completely out of order. You'll be very happy in the last semester, but it's a semester of ungovernment in which citizenship is dissatisfied with its management. Young people wanted opportunities to study and live with dignity on their own land and 15,000 people had to emigrate; 15,000 university students and university students had to emigrate during these years of their de-government. And what is your answer during this last semester? Close schools, close the future, or better said, by being literal with what the Official Journal of Galicia says, extinguish them. The closure still evokes the possibility of reopening, but extinction evokes complete disappearance. Is that what you want for our youth, your extinction in the country? Is that what you want for rural education, your extinction, your abandonment? Is that what you want for us inside, a complete desertification? Is that the future you have for the youth of this country? His lack of plan, his lack of ideas, led him to a complete immobilization of Galicia. You got what seemed to be unpublished: to agree to employers and unions to strike him with a transport strike because they had no plan to develop Galicia, because he has no land management plan. That's the plan of the People's Party for Galicia: immobilism, that people can't go either way. People wait at the bus stop and think, we don't vote for the People's Party. There'll be a good course, there'll be a good master, but it'll be out of order. A lot of people couldn't operate, keep on waiting list, hoping they'll be over 90 days waiting for surgery; and we don't even have any data on what the closing number of beds is going to be this summer. You made health, which was a right, a business for your friends, and now we're paying all of it. It's going to cost the health of the entire citizenry. Are you satisfied with that? People are waiting at the doctor's office to be cared for and they say, we don't vote for the People's Party. The lack of initiatives took us last year to leave without spending EUR 57 million on equal training and promotion of employment and employment, which led once again to consolidate a line that was the employment anomaly in Galicia. A policy of cuts that has led to greater unemployment and worse recovery now that the economy is in good shape. The people who wait on the Inem queue say, we don't vote for the Feijóo for this. His lack of industrial strategy leads the new automotive companies to settle out of Vigo's industrial belt. And the unemployed workers, waiting for work, wonder, why Feijóo punishes us this way, without having an industrial plan that makes our country viable? Here it seems that the only industrial stimulus strategy - as Mr Rueda has said - are precisely the contracts of his friend Faílde for the acquisition of emergency equipment. That is the only strategic business and purchasing policy that it has — it seems — for this country. The economy is growing, but it doesn't benefit everyone the same. Over the past year, the rate of poverty and social exclusion increased by 37% between youth, and the risk of child poverty by 7%. People who have no money to come to the end of the month and cannot pay their bills, including those from the light, wonder why you spend the money from energy poverty to buy light bulbs for Gaiás. Make a balance of this academic course, make a balance of that master's discharge, and tell us whether he's satisfied or not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u35	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, you're talking about unrest and conflict. Of course, you're an expert, you're a conflict expert. You understand so much about conflicts, Mr. Villares, that you just don't realize that the greatest political conflict in Galicia is with your person. Yes, yes. The problems you've just reported are certain that they have a solution, now, gives me the feeling that the conflict you're causing in your group has only one solution. Of course, Your Honor, I won't give... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u37	Quiet. Quiet, please. Quiet. I heard the question, too. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u38	I will not give the solution to Mr. Villares' conflict. And I won't give it to you, among other things, because your bandmates, especially the closest ones, would be delighted that I had given the solution. [[Murmurs.]] But I won't give it to you, Your Honor. I won't give it to her. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, are they not any more Germans? The Greeks have a retreat, ladies and gentlemen. You are the receivers of the retreat of the President of the Union because he's a German on the four sides, Mr. Villares. [[Murmurs.]] He doesn't think it's the people who want to vote for you. No, no, we're all Germans, Your Honor. Even most of them put us in government. For what? To rule. Exactly the opposite of de-governance. You're talking to me about conflicts, inactions, and not just uncontrollable. But, Mr. Villares, you rule somewhere in Galicia. To rule is understood to make decisions. Can you, in the replica shift, tell me about the governments that run out of Ferrol, Santiago and Coruña? Mr. Villares, I'll talk about the Greeks. Look, Mr. Villares, with all due respect, we are trying to improve, of course, the content of education. Are you against primary students being in primary schools and high school students being in high schools? Are you against that? That's what we've done: that primary students go to primary schools and that high school students focus on secondary schools. And are we guilty of doing that, Mr. Villares? It turns out that in transport matters we are now guilty, Your Honor, for defending that the Greeks have transport from August. Mr. Villares, I have at your disposal the resignations of the companies, these are they; they are signed by the companies. They've given up transportation. Do you propose? Mr. Villares, do you remember to keep the law? Do you remember the importance of law? Do you remember the importance of fulfilling the judgments of the courts, especially the Supreme Court? Do you accuse me of complying with the law and complying with the Supreme Court's judgments? Mr. Villares, it was the last thing I expected of you. Do you accuse me of defending the workers? Twenty-five percent more money to defend the workers; two million more euros every year in concession contracts for the workers to continue with their job?, is that what you accuse me of, Mr. Villares? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, which side are you on, two workers or the employer?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u40	Are they on the side of rural citizens or are they simply on the side of the interests of certain companies? Mr. Villares, I understand everything. I understand the uncertainties that cause the new decisions, of course, but I'm going to rule Galicia, because not ruling is not a receipt for someone who has a major majority in the House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u42	And I'm telling you one thing: the government is not delegated. I take my mistakes and take my decisions too. What I would really like, Mr. Leicega, is that you voted once in a while, some posture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u44	Sorry, Mr. Villares, sorry. I'm saying I'd like you to take a stance, one, to know exactly what they're proposing, because that would be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u45	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u46	...possible to talk to you about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u48	Ask, Mr. Feijóo, which side we are on. We're from the people who work on the Death Coast. You, on the side of Villar Mir, who for that is financing the People's Party. [[Applause]] It's very easy, and it doesn't go back, in case you don't understand. We can take advantage of the retreat and say that with this illegal funding, they may be able to pay the bonds of all those who are in Soto del Real today, because, if they want to withdraw, we also have it. But let's be serious, because some of us want to offer a political alternative to this country in the face of its unrest. Of course! There are two ways to understand the country. The country of wonders, in which Mr. Feijóo seems to live and an important part of the People's Party, and then there's the real Galicia, the Galicia that doesn't believe their lies, the Galicia that doesn't resign, the Galicia that leaves the streets... If you think the biggest conflict the country has is this one that talks to you is that you're deaf, that you're short-sighted, that you don't listen, that you don't see. There's an ingent citizen mobilization anywhere he looks at. In fact, his Government delegation said it was the territory of the state with more social conflict, with more citizen mobilization. Why? Because there's a country that lives on the street, aside from the lies of the People's Party, starting with teaching. People don't resign to closing schools, they don't resign to extending rights, they don't resign to getting them out of the country. And we all defend with these people the right to a new German law of education dialogue; the right to close the cracks between rural and city at the level of education. We want everyone to have access to all the basic principles of education, something that you deny them. There's an active tide of public health that wants them not to do that business, that doesn't want them to close their beds, that wants them to pay attention to Primary Care, that reduces waiting lists... that's what they want, that's what they expect from you. There's a transport sector that expects you to raise the immobilization and immobilization to which you have been subjected. Listen to something else but those Vega Sicilian who still come to the raisin, man! Don't give in to the blackmails of monopolies. Of course they follow the sentences, because they have no choice! But those judgments come after their rebellious will not to comply precisely with the blackmail of some entrepreneurs who acted in monopoly regimes and live very well thanks to you. But not only this, social conflict, which you don't listen to because it doesn't seem like it does exist, has also led PSA workers to strike, leads metal workers to strike because they want to improve their working conditions, they also took 112, Emergency workers, they also strike because they want decent working conditions. On whose side is he, who wants decent working conditions or who abuses the workers? It seems to be very clear. At Marea, you presented a battery of employment initiatives yesterday. Copy some, we don't feel bad! They were forty, they chose what they want, but they promote employment in this country so that people don't have to emigrate, have rights and have quality of life without having to grind, without having to go looking for bread elsewhere. And above all, in relation to the Coast of Death and in relation to Ferroatlantics, do not give in to the blackmails of Villar Mir. She's on the people's side, she's on the people's side. We'll support it if you're on that side. She's on the legal side, because she's talking about legality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u50	It prevents segregation — and I'm going to finish —. It's on the 99% side of the Death Coast and not on the 1% side of Villar Mir's interests. He's on the people's side. And in relation — and I'm done — to AP-9, by the final theme, of course... of course, of course. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u51	It's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u52	What has served Galicia to have an absolute majority of the People's Party if you are not even able to assert the unanimous position of this House, which expresses the unanimous position of the whole country in relation to the infrastructure that is essential. Bochorno is producing Galician citizenship this defense situation in which you leave us! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u53	Thank you. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, of course, you have no retreat, you don't know that. You, to charge crimes, that's it. Now tell me that in Ferroatlantica, the law is being observed and that transport is in breach of the law. Well, I'm going in transport to comply with the law and in Forratlántica to comply with the law. That's what we're going to do: comply with the law in transport and comply with the law in Ferroatlantics. [[Applause]] Which side are we on? We're on the side of the Greeks, point. We are on the side of the Greeks who are being abused, expropriated and kidnapped in Venezuela. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And why are you voting against these Greeks? [[Interruptions.]] Why are you more interested in defending Mr. Maduro's regime than in defending the freedoms of the Greeks in Venezuela? [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, this is already part of your political biography forever. Look, Mr. Villares, you're still slandering...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u55	Quiet. Quiet, please. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u56	...I just read the Journal of Sessions. Don't worry. Which side are we on? Two of the Greeks. Which side are we on? Public health. 67% of the hospitals in Galicia are now expanding or reforming, because the rest are already new. You should go around the hospitals, not just read certain communiqués from certain unions, Mr. Villares. Because you're healthy, what you know is what they tell you, but if you want to know something about health, ask questions about health. Look, we're reforming all Galician hospitals except for those that are already young. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, you speak of the classes. You know that the number of pupils per class in children is 25 and in high school is 30. What we just did is we absolutely respect those ratios, but below. At the Bridges the number of students will be between 20 and 23, in Ribadavia 27, in Porriño 24 and in Octes 14. What are we accused of, Mr. Villares? What are we accused of? We're told that high school boys at the Bridges go and are consolidated in an institute 500 meters away from that center of primary education. Let's leave primary and secondary boys in high school. Was it when you and I studied in high school didn't work that way, Mr. Villares? What are we accused of? In Ribadavia, do you know the difference from center to center? A fence. Your Honor, but if you want to talk about what was done here in health care... the truth is that it says, it's always looking back. No, we're not looking back, that's what we're doing is looking at the year 2008, the decisions that have been made by those who defend public education. Public education consisted of twelve centres affecting 291 students, separating them, but not a few metres away. The Samos had to go to Sarria, 12 kilometers; and the Portomarín had to go to Lugo, 28 kilometers. Mr. Villares, where were you when all this happened in the democratic government of Galicia? I was here, Your Honor, and therefore I know the data of what happened. Mr. Villares...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u57	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u58	...the Greeks have memory; memory of everything and memory for everything. From our mistakes and, of course, from our commitments as well. Mr. Villares, I told you very clearly, if you're worried about the transport workers, you have the agreement signed with the transport workers. If you're worried about companies, you have the resignation of the companies we're going to rejuvenate. If you're worried about complying with the law, you have no doubt that the president of the board will always comply with the law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u60	Now, I don't want to talk about the ungovernment or conflicts of the tide government with the PSOE in the municipalities, because they would obviously fulfill several plenarys. But what I'm telling you is, look, we're self-critical and we recognize our mistakes. If we have to keep talking on the bridges, we'll continue If we have to keep talking to the transporters, we'll continue. We recognize our mistakes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u62	You in the Tides don't recognize one single mistake. Well, I lie, you only admit an error: name it to your spokesman. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u63	Thank you. We move on to the fourth point of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Maria Guadalupe Murillo Solís and 14 other Members, on the demand to the Government of Spain for the promotion and establishment of measures to ensure the road safety of cyclists
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u64	Amendments to this proposal were tabled by En Marea, the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u65	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Murillo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u66	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The non-legislative proposal that comes to our Parliament today is particularly relevant, since, despite being a proposal that has a great deal to do with sport, we are going to talk about risk to life and the integrity of people. The use of the bicycle involves sports, sport is health. From all public administrations we are promoting the practice of sport, among other reasons, for the benefits it brings to the health of citizens. For these reasons the number of bicycle users has increased considerably in recent years. The use of bicycle as a means of transport has, of course, benefits also in improving the environment. At this point in this country, there is a fundamental concern about the care we should have with the world in which we live. From all public administrations we try to raise awareness of the benefits of the use of less polluting means of transport. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u67	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u68	...the use of bicycle is relevant as a non-contaminated means of transport, it is relevant as a way of doing sport, both amateur and professional, and the use of bicycle facilitates the well-being and health of its practitioners. That's why we shouldn't have to talk about the dead and the wounded when we're talking about the activity we're doing to improve everyone's life and health. In the electoral program with which we conquered the Government of Galicia, we have already shown our commitment and concern for a fact that, from a time to this part, has gained presence and notoriety in the media, and not for a good thing, but on the contrary. The increase in the number of users, and perhaps the lack of awareness of many who share road every day with them, results in a high rate of sinality on our roads. It's true that the number of fatalities is lower each year than the last ones analyzed, but it's no less true that the number of accidents injured on our roads is increasing. In this commitment of the PP, of what we were talking about, "they will identify those paths of the autonomic road network with the usual presence of cyclists for their adequacy and proper signaling, warning the drivers of vehicles of their presence," we must expand it today, seeking to be even more powerful because of the reality that we have found ourselves in recent times, which shows the existence of a weakness, well in our own legislation, well in the perception of citizens about the dangers of lack of caution on the Spanish roads. The proposal we are moving to this House today has two aspects. The first is to take action in situ in places where most accidents occur. And the second one, to request the reform of the Criminal Code so that negligent conduct does not remain unpunished. The situation that is generating in citizenship and affecting us by these kinds of accidents is a situation of impotence. Since Galician Union there has been and there is a deep concern about safety on the Greek roads. The 2011-2015 Road Safety Plan first, and now what's happening, 2016-2020, aims to reduce the number of accidents and accidents on our roads. The actions envisaged are largely based on those that have been successfully carried out in previous plans. The new road safety plan 2016-2020 gives continuity to the previous one. This plan has been developed with the highest participation of many people, since it has been dealt with in the Autonomic Committee on Road Traffic and Safety, where all competent administrations are represented in the management of road infrastructures in Galicia, the DXT and the Civil Guard Traffic Group. In addition, he also counted on the involvement of the various councils of the Galician Union and the participation of the different social agents. Finally, he tried to involve in this plan 2016-2020 all the agents who have some kind of relation to Galician road safety. Both plans had as one of their priority and strategic objectives the road safety measures of the most vulnerable users, of the motor vehicle users, on our roads. Assemble the General Secretariat for Sport promotes cycling as a complete sport and coordinates the institutional relations between federations in this field, which are that of cycling and that of tripatlon, and the different councils with which they may have common interests. From the two organs of the government there was a fluid dialogue with this collective, to deepen measures that reinforce the road safety of cyclists as the most vulnerable users on our roads. As an example, the Galician Infrastructure Agency has been developing since 2016 the Galician Roadmap, which began with the development of a strategy on alternative mobility of Galicia in coordination with the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan and the Feder 2014-2020 Operational Programme, which collects measures to support the development of sustainable urban and interurban mobility, pedestrian and cyclists. The strategy focuses on promoting alternative mobility at local, everyday and comarcal levels, so that residential areas can be accessed and accessed through non-motorized means. The safety of these displacements is one of the objectives. It seeks to create pathways along self-sustainment roads that demean the danger on roads for people who opt for alternative mobility and who facilitate and make it possible for all users to travel in conditions of greater security. The permanent relationship with the Galician Cycling Federation as the interlocutor of the more than 250 Galician clubs, and its proximity to the nearly 7,000 federal cyclists, generate synergies which have resulted in the signing of agreements between AXI, the Galician Infrastructure Agency, and the Federation of Cycling, with the aim of establishing the bases to collaborate in the activities of promoting the road safety of the cyclists, with particular impact on the improvement of their visibility in transit through the roads. So in this way, as we can see, the needs and preferences of this collective are being transferred in real time to the practice of this sports discipline. I'm not going to talk more about what's already done, but what's still to be done, so that with everyone's agreement we're working on creating something better in this field. I will focus on the four points of the proposal that we bring to the full, which, as I have already made, is trying to improve the safety of cyclists on our roads. We present two different types of initiatives. Some of them have measures that will be dealt with on-the-spot. And another is the reform of the penal code. Among the first, we call for the intensification of the usual monitoring controls exercised by the bodies and security forces in areas with more cyclist presence, and also for the intensification of especially those controls of alcohol and drugs analysis. Also that a correct, visible and abundant signaling is carried out, with posters that remember the distance that must be kept — from one and a half meters — for advance to cyclists, and on those roads where there is the greatest presence of cyclists, which is marked on them. That's what we told all the administrations: self-government, state, provincial and local. Even so, we also ask these same administrations to develop campaigns to promote the use of the bicycle along with campaigns to raise awareness of the danger of taking no precautions on the roads. Secondly, we urge the Galician Union to address the Government of Spain in order to initiate the procedures to allow the reform of the Criminal Code that serves to achieve the improvement of the regulatory framework that regulates road safety offences, as users — cyclists — most vulnerable on these roads. We demand the recovery of the figure of recklessness resulting from injury or death as supposed legal, and that the concept of serious recklessness be reviewed when an accident occurs with alcohol or drugs, so that it will become considered a crime for possible harm, and thus increase its penalty. Although the Congress of Deputies has unanimously adopted a non-law proposal which gives the Government a three-month deadline to present a draft organic law on the reform of the criminal code, among other things. Although the People's Party in Congress of Deputies had registered a proposal for organic law amending Organic Law 10/1995, the Criminal Code, in matters of recklessness in driving motor vehicles. And although everything indicates that we will take a step forward on safety issues on the roads for everyone's sake, this group understands that the special sensitivity of this Parliament and the good harmony with all the cyclists' associations in our community have with us, deserve our full support and a strong pronouncement. That's why, and because we have to watch for the life and good health of the people we encourage every day to practice this sport, I hope to count on your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Murillo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u70	Thank you, President. Good morning. As bad as I had here the text of the initiative, dear Lupe Murillo, because it goes so fast that it's hard to follow his pace. In any case, I have to say that we share the need for debate and action in this area, although we also have disagreements on mobility policy and on the approach they give to this issue. [[Murmurs.]] You spoke of cyclist mobility as sport. I think you have to have a broader view, because cycling mobility performs more functions than sports, as we know. Furthermore, we do not share this approach almost exclusively focused on the debate about accidents, on the runoffs and on the fatal victims, which worry us, of course, very much — there was even a deadly hit on a very central street in Madrid, there are every day cases that are dramatic and, of course, we have to act to combat these accidents, this mortality, and to prevent roads and streets from being a threat and a deadly trap for pedestrians and cyclists, for the most vulnerable users, but we think that we have to go beyond the specific measures, that we have to go beyond the answer to the Criminal Code, which is usually a hot reaction, of hot lawmaking, and this is not a good solution, at least it is not the complete solution. So what we're asking is that it be done from a broader, more global perspective, and that we also have a debate on the policies of bike promotion and mobility that responds to the three "s": healthy, sustainable and secure. I think here we have to advocate for the need for a strategy of our own, a strategy of our own, a strategy of our own, a strategy of natural mobility promotion, which is on foot mobility, bike mobility, and which is not alternative mobility, in any case, we prefer to call it natural mobility. We have to see in this respect — we have to say this — the failure of the policies of mobility and road safety of the German Government. Yesterday we were talking about public transport, and today we have to talk about cyclist mobility, and the evidence is that there is a disorientation, a drift and a policy of bandages. The bike usage data in Galicia are rickets, they are ridiculous, we are below 1% of the bike use, and in most cases in movements for recreational and sporting reasons, not of mobility, of transport itself. There is a very clear example of this failure and the paralysis of natural mobility policies, which is the mobility plan itself, which you call the alternative, which began in 2010, which was hired to a Madrid consultant, GEA21, at a price of EUR 340,000 and which is stored in a drawer. They've never been able to apply it. There's not even a final document of that plan. Where is he? Because of course, you assume that you are the big managers of the public accounts and it turns out that they hire a plan for more than 300,000 euros and now they have it there, stored in a drawer. Only the diagnostic document was made, a document of criteria and recommendations for the design and tracing of cyclist pathways was made in 2012, which never applied, by the way, because they are now with this idea that the green paths are not cyclist pathways, they are another thing, they perform another function, and on the Council web there are only a few documents with a series of vagueities. So in these years a great opportunity has been lost to make real progress on this subject. There has not been a determined and clear policy, with measures to support and promote cyclist mobility, and so are we, with the roads we have, with the roads we have and with the absence in most of the cities of clear policies for other mobility models. We therefore need to develop infrastructure actions on road safety. Also actions of awareness, promotion and encouragement of bicycle use. Actions also on training and information, for example, on advances to cyclists, the famous metro and the medium. Report that you can invade the opposite lane, for example, to make that advance; there are many drivers who do not know this rule. Or performances also related to economic activity and tourism, because bicycle is also a powerful engine of economic activity and there are many initiatives in this regard. So I want to convey here our willingness to support the measures proposed by the People's Party. In any case, we believe that they should also be receptive to the amendments tabled by the opposition groups and that they also present the BNG, and an agreement could be reached to actually take a much broader, more comprehensive resolution, with a more comprehensive view than you propose, which speaks almost exclusively of criminal measures and preventive measures, which are necessary, but not located in certain areas. Because what are the most cyclist routes? Those who use cyclists for sports activity? Urban pathways are also used by cyclists, interurban pathways are used by cyclists, so we have to have a broader view. We also propose to approve and develop that plan, updated, negotiated and participated with all social agents. We propose that you create a table for cyclist mobility, where all administrations with competence in the field and also the entities working in this sector, which have many ideas and who have a great deal of willingness to collaborate, work and participate to make these proposals come true. And we also propose that there be a policy development and a regulatory update essentially on two standards. In the traffic law, which must stop being called a traffic law at once, because trafficking refers to motor traffic and mobility is a much broader concept, and we have to incorporate there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u72	... policies for natural mobility. And also in the Code of Movement, where bicycles and cyclist mobility have to be incorporated as one of the central aspects of mobility. So if there is receptiveness on the part of the People's Party, be sure that we will support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u73	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Murillo, what a vertigo. The truth is, you broke my pace at all. It gave the feeling, in these days that we're back cyclist, that I was going up the Tourmalet and you were going down. Slowly, slowly. I think all vehicles, motorized and not motorized, we have to go our own way. [[Applause]] And in this case, not being motorized like the bike, even more calmly. In any case, obviously, it's a complicated situation, mainly because two issues are happening that have a lot to do with road safety, with accidents, and that's really what we need to worry about. A complicated situation in which it is true that we constantly see, permanently, that the use of bicycles is increasing, that there is an inclination to use bicycles and that we have structural and conjunctural difficulties, but above all structural, important. Some structural difficulties that have to do with the road infrastructure itself. We must recognize that our roads are not, for the most part, prepared to assume what was already on bicycle users, or what is happening with respect to the increase of these users. We have therefore not prepared the infrastructure, and with a call for greater use, we obviously have a greater presence and therefore increase the difficulties. We are aware that there are no magic measures to prevent accidents, there are no accidents. There are steps we can take, some of a general nature and others of a punctual nature, in each of those sites where the use of such infrastructures takes place primarily. It's a subject you've been talking about for a long time. Specifically, in 2011 the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council has already shown its interest in this alternative shift by creating a mobility master plan to implement it by 2012. It is true that he has practically disappeared from his calendar, or disappeared from his calendar, and he has not been able to do virtually anything or very little in the increase of cyclists to the infrastructures, which have been growing. It is also true that infrastructures do not have to be the same at all sites, because they have to go depending on the type of users, the location of users, and the use for which the bike is made. In rural areas it is customary for an older person or a young person, simply to travel 50 or 100 meters, take the bicycle to the shop, to go to the bar. However, there is also another type of use on the subject of displacement, for example at work, to do activities, mainly in peri-urban areas and urban areas, and there is already the most classic use of bicycles as a sport. These are different situations that we have to analyze also in their difference. It can't therefore be a continuous, shallow-tabular situation, where we look for alternatives for each other and not for others. The benefits of bicycle use no longer need to be mentioned, with regard to climate change, with regard to all these positive measures that we have with their use. As I said, there are no magic solutions, but if there's a lot to do, and that's what we have to be aware of. There's a lot of work to do, I think basically in two areas, and also in one plugin. First, in the direction of the infrastructure work. The second is training and awareness-raising. We, the Socialist Group, consider — and in fact we have reflected it in the Committee on Road Safety of past legislation — that training is absolutely essential for all road users: drivers, motorized and non-motorised vehicles, and that young people are able to live on their own with the least possible accidents, and that is why training, awareness-raising and road education is absolutely essential. Everyone needs to know their role, they need to know what their rights are, but also what the rights of others are, in order to be able to respect each other, and — as I say — to live in an area that is unique to those users. Therefore, we are even in favour that within childhood education, within primary education, a process of training and road education begins, because it seems absolutely essential for the use of the road as a means of displacement, with the various features and uses it has. We are going to support this initiative because it seems important — and in fact so are being asked by the federations — mainly on weekends. It must be borne in mind that most accidents occur on Sunday mornings, when those who went out at night are back and those who leave in the morning riding bicycles are at first, so it's a very complicated confluence. So, we agree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u75	Thank you, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u76	I'm done, Mr. President. There has to be a traffic presence, in some way, that is able to avoid these issues. I also support the fact that there may be certain pathways that are now less used, such as nationals, which are parallel to the highways, which may be better marked and in some way "reserved" for sports. And we simply tabled an amendment to addendum, addressed to the Government of Greece, in that the Greek Parliament urged the Galician Parliament to consolidate, before the end of 2019, a master plan for alternative mobility of Galicia with sufficient resources. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u77	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u78	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. It can be seen that the Galician People's Group does not have much communication with its Minister of Justice or with its parliamentary group at the Congress of Deputies, because on June 16th, less than a month ago, as your spokesperson has already commented, your group in Congress, the People's Party, you, have tabled a proposal for organic law amending the Criminal Code to amend the outcome that your parliamentary group in Madrid, the People's Party, you, have crafted with the reform of the 2015 Penal Code on Road Safety. And I want to insist on this because it may seem that the People's Party has no responsibility for the deprotection with which the cyclists find themselves. Those who decriminalized mild recklessness in July 2015 were you. Those who have killed a pawn, a cyclist, on the public highway have no answer on the criminal road, in case of mild recklessness, were you. And they didn't move anything until the tremendous work of Ana González López, who was killed by her husband and didn't even open an oral trial thanks to his amendment of the law, made an effort to join more than 200,000 signatures against his reform of the Criminal Code. Your Minister of Justice — this exemplary Democrat — had to take as his own claim the reform of the Criminal Code to return it to a situation similar to that which was before his 2015 legislative chapuza, and that legislative chapuza is already very common in the People's Party. But the carpets are still there. The reform proposal presented by the PP, you, in Madrid less than a month ago remains incomplete. The Spanish Bureau of the bicycle, where the Royal Spanish Federation of Cycling, the Association of Professional Cycling, Ciclojurists, ConBici and others are integrated, is not happy with its proposal for reform, since it only solves the problem and incorporates a new crime of abandonment of the place of accident. There's still no need to penalize any slight recklessness. It maintains that speed excesses must be excessively high to consider imprudence as severe; more than 110 kilometers per hour on urban roads and more than 180 kilometers per hour on conventional roads, and a fully illogically breathed alcohol rate of 0.60 milligrams per litre to consider recklessness as serious and not light. But still, in case imprudence is determined to be serious, the penalty of imprisonment is minimal, of only one year, the same as the withdrawal of driver's license, so its reform continues to consider killing a human being within a city, circulating with the car at 150 kilometers an hour or triple the alcohol rate, can end with a prison sentence of only one year, and that with the current legislation this murderer cannot spend a single day in prison. For these reasons and more likely to clarify the Spanish Bureau of the bicycle in its last statement, we believe that this reform of the Criminal Code is insufficient in the field of road safety. But in addition to this, this GNP they bring here today is also clearly insufficient. He does not respond to the requests of the Bureau of the bicycle itself, which are fully reasonable and reasoned in legal terms by Francisco Bastida, Professor of Constitutional Right of the University of Oviedo and participate in the Spanish Bureau of the bicycle by Cycle Jurists, because they forget — and do not worry that we have already solved it with our amendments to add — a more comprehensive and profound reform of articles 140, 142, 152, 379, 380 and 382 of the Penal Code, which are the ones that are making the very serious unwises not to be punished according to the facts that have happened. And that's why we propose our amendments to add, so that this LNP picks up all the most important and urgent issues in this matter, because we share in the arguments and speeches that the lives of cyclists and cyclists deserve important actions and not statements of half- and tibia intentions. If they want to be blunt and if the offenders don't stay unpunished, as he said in his speech, they accept our amendments, and they will have our support. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Murillo Solis has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u80	Thank you all very much for the support you received. Mr Bará, dear friend, you're right, but this PNL has a lot to do with the cyclists who do sports and probably what you want is something bigger that you will have to talk about in another committee, in another PNL, in the Committee on Road Safety of this Parliament, not permanent. Make more suggestions there, because this is as concrete as it is, it talks about safety on the Greek roads, nothing more. Mr. Fernández, I take a hundred percent of your speech. I think very similar to what you just said. Mr. Cal, I'm not going to tell you the story of what was done at the Congress of Deputies because I've already talked about what happened and I've already told you that we want to do something else. So, I think it's all said. Being a sensitive subject for everyone, knowing how we all know how many people practice this sport, they'll certainly appreciate our interest and our will in the search for the safety of cyclists. They will be grateful for the tone, they will appreciate the consensus and, above all, they will appreciate that the measures we call for are reality and show their effectiveness. Let's get this time right. It'll be important. Finally, there is only one way to recommend caution on the roads for everyone. With regard to cyclists, who don't forget the rules. That the more right of the best shoe, and at most in pairs, not in platoon, that the fines start coming to them as well. Motor vehicle drivers keep the rules in mind, they drive with caution. And especially they never forget that cycling is a sport, that on enabled roads we all fit, and that a little caution is worth a life. With regard to the amendments tabled, I will propose an alternative text incorporating more or less the two proposals from En Marea and one from BNG. The PSOE proposal, which calls on the Galician Union to consolidate an alternative mobility plan for Galicia before 2019, will not be incorporated because, as I said, it is included in the Galician Roadmap that is currently being developed, since 2006, in this sense, and has an update plan that will end in 2020. On the non-inclusion of the creation of the Galician Bureau for mobility, proposed by the BNG, I think that my report has already explained that there are several bodies that are currently looking to study the improvement of the safety conditions of the most vulnerable users, and not to create more commissions, we are going to achieve better results. In any case, as you well know, we have a specific non-permanent study commission on road safety in Galicia in this Parliament, to which all kinds of suggestions can be approached. As you can hear, we're trying to incorporate amendments from all the House groups, because it's important to guarantee the integrity of people; people who just wanted to do sports when they left the house. Mr. Bará, I really know that what you want is more. He sees cycling more as a transport and not as a sport, I know. But this PNL had more to do with the safety of cyclists, which we're dealing with every day's problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Murillo. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. from In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the action to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the night and holiday supplements that are charging the professionals of the continuing attention points
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u82	This motion for a non-law was tabled on the initiative of Mrs. Maria Monserrat Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u83	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mrs. Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u84	Thank you, President. There are few occasions in this House, in this rostrum and also in the Committee on Health, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government are tired of boasting health professionals, and it must probably be the only thing we agreed on, because, if it weren't for health workers, the reality is that the system today, with its cuts, could hardly work. Health personnel work on precarious occasions, as well as the CAP staff, the continuing attention points. Medical and nursing personnel who attend all the emergencies that enter the door, not only primary care emergencies, care for infarctions, treat traffic, and any kind of emergency, and even more and more patients who attend emergencies due to the endless waiting lists caused by the Galician Union policy. They also work with a shortage of material resources — we have discussed it on some occasions — and without individual protective equipment when they attend accidents and emergencies outside the health centre, and they are indispensable throughout the territory, but much more in the countryside, at the points that are further away from hospitals. And in a country that lacks ambulances, as we have already reported in the Health Committee, with this request made by the 061 comrades and colleagues, and also with transport and connection difficulties, as we have discussed in many other committees of this Parliament. And in those working conditions, and when Junta says that she values these professionals and these professionals so much, she keeps them unearned for all of her wages. Extrahospital urgent care in Galicia was regulated by Decree 172/1995 of 18 May, with the creation of continuing care points, and partially modified in 2005 with Decree 156/2005. In this sense, and by the Order of June 4, 2008, it was agreed to regulate the provision of jobs, daytimes, wages and working conditions of medical and nursing staff at the continuing points of care. In other words, in the past decade, the work and salaries of this staff have been regulated. The additional transitional provision of that order to which we refer relates to the gradual application of the night and holiday supplements in the accounts provided for in Article 6.2, so that in 2010 the 100 percent of the count would already apply. That is, by the year 2008, doctors and doctors and nursing staff at the continued points of care would charge 40% of these salaries; in 2009 they would apply by 80%; and in 2010 workers and workers at the continuing points of care would have to be charging 100 percent of those salaries, but it turns out that we are in 2017, seven years later, and doctors, doctors, nurses and nurses from the continuing points of care throughout Galicia do not charge all of the night and holiday supplements, they reached only 80%. I mean, it's a serious problem, and we have professionals upstairs visiting and attending this debate. [[Applause]] We have medical and nursing staff serving primary care emergencies without paying them all the nights and weekends, thus failing to comply with effective legality and creating an obvious comparative harm. They're the only professionals in the Galego Health Service who don't charge the supplements for working at night and weekends, when, of course, they have a right. It is not requested, therefore, in this proposal that the salary be increased; improvements are not requested in labour rights or social rights; it is simply requested that the board comply with the regulations, that the board stop removing them every month by 20% of a relevant part of its salary. I, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is unfortunate that I have to arrive at this Parliament seven years later to ask the Galician Council to pay the salaries of the public health staff. It's the least they can do, and it's the staff that serves us in the emergency room. In 2010 there was an effective equivalence that was only effective in paper. It's funny because they're not being paid that full salary, and they don't serve as an excuse for economic circumstances. They're not good because both the Government of Galicia and the Central Government have been tired of saying that there is an economic recovery, fruit of that is those measures that have also just been approved with that modification of budgets according to the Council of Galicia. But even so, although this argument was due to economic restrictions since 2009, it would not be applicable in this case because, in the 2010 budgets to Together, it moved that the application of agreements or agreements which entailed wage increases should be suspended. What happens in this case is that we're not talking about wage increases, we're talking about equalizing the salary to the rest of the staff of the Galician Health Service, not raising the salary to the professionals. It's not an extra, it's not a raise, it's therefore paying him all the salary. I think it's well explained, that it's a rather simple initiative and that it's -- I repeat -- quite embarrassing. And I'm not saying it because I say it or as if we can repeat it in our initiatives. I think it's unfortunate that in the 2017 plenary we have to come to Parliament and ask emergency personnel to pay all their salaries because Junta has been withdrawing part of their salaries for seven years. Nothing else for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The rest of the parliamentary groups are now involved. By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u86	Good day to all and to all, and also to the professionals who accompany us from the rostrum. The BNG has often denounced from the rostrum of this Parliament that the cuts of the People's Health Party are leading to public health in Galicia to a situation of constant deterioration, premeditated and organized; that within this public health sanctuaries professionals are the most injured; and that public health without qualified professionals and without professionals in sufficient numbers is not possible to provide health care in condition. We have brought this Parliament initiatives in this direction on more than one occasion. In 2010, with the excuse for the crisis — like no, the excuse for the crisis! — the People's Party's Health Council unilaterally suspended the implementation of the agreements signed at sectoral table, to which it had arrived in 2008, as well as the remunerative improvements of the statutory staff and the working conditions of the professionals. The argument was, of course, the crisis as always, and he said at that time, the People's Party that the suspension was temporary, waiting for an early economic recovery. The agreements reached were not an occurrence, they were fruit of work and negotiation and had reached them after months of negotiation at sectoral table, and they had a lot, a lot, a lot of justification. They had the objective of allowing Sergas staff salaries to be on the average of the rest of the health services' salaries at the state level, because Sergas staff were the worst paid in the Spanish state. It was and continues to be of the worst paid in the Spanish state, it follows the queue, since those agreements have not been implemented. Specific wages related to the penoness of the provision of the service: shift work, Sundays, holidays, guards; recognition of special days such as 24th, 25th, 31st or 1st of January, holidays for the vast majority of the population, for the vast majority of workers, except for workers and workers who continue to provide an essential service to the population as is that of health; and the theme of professional career. But two legislations have been passed, and we're going through the third, the German People's Party Government is making a positive balance of economic resources, they're trying to convince us that we're already on a path of recovery, that the crisis is history, that the data of recovery of gross domestic product and recovery of employment are already evidence. But if that's true, they're denying workers and public health workers that recovery. The health workers are still waiting for that recovery in their salaries and those improvements that have already been negotiated remain frozen. That is why today the BNG tabled an amendment to this initiative which is being presented in Marea, echoing the request that the trade union organizations CIG, Commissions, CSIF, SATSE and UXT have been transferred to us today, which have met with all the groups represented in this Parliament, asking us to urge the Government of Greece to comply with the legality — because a negotiated agreement at sectoral table and signed is normal, that is legality, it is not a wet role, that is normal — to call this sectoral table, to negotiate with the trade union organizations that timetable for the recovery of agreements signed and suspended since 2010, which, I insist, therefore, are of a norm nature, and that the successive laws of budgets of the Board of Galicia collect these covenanted and not carried out. Of course, we recognize the concrete claim of the collective that accompanies us today, but we believe that it is part of the global demands of the public health staff, that, of course, it does not deserve only in the political discourse of the People's Party to be recognized its immense work, which, of course, we recognize by the Nationalist Block Galego...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u87	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u88	...and that the public health of Galicia, if it's not in worse condition, is thanks to the continued effort and volunteerism of professionals, but this has to be accompanied after concrete questions. It's not enough to acknowledge your work, but then you have to recognize it also in your remuneration and in the rest of your rights that you defend and that, of course, we support from the Nationalist Block of Wales. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u90	Thank you, President. Good morning. I want to take the opportunity to greet the people who accompany us in the gallery and also to thank them for their work. Here we're often accused, wrongly, that every time we make criticism, we're criticizing the staff. There is no one who defends the health system staff better than the parties we've seen defending things like this, and therefore we want to thank him very sincerely for his work. [[Applause]] Before exposing a number of issues too, I wanted to express our full support for the initiative. We share it from the first point to the last point. We think it's not only necessary, but it's already beyond the urgency, it had to be a matter of itself. And we share that it is regrettable that you have to be demanding this from a Parliament. From our point of view, it is not only about defending this proposal — which, of course, we have already done with the register of initiatives in this regard and with the defence of these positions in the Health Committee — but about the greater need, as has already been said here, is to recover the 2008-2012 compensation agreements which were paralysed with the arrival of the People's Party to the Government in 2010, simply paralysed. It should be remembered that those agreements proposed as an objective in 2012 to match Galician health professionals with the rest of Spain's average. Now the interest was to match our professionals with the average of Spain, and they stopped in 2010. If before they met the goal of equality they were paralyzed, and since then they haven't returned, what is the position of our healthcare professionals today with regard to the average of Spain? We're not talking about the best communities anymore, we're talking about the average. For clearly we have the least recognized professionals on the part of the management of Greek health, the least recognized in the whole country, Spain, and we have the least paid professionals, which is also a way — not only for nothing, but also a way — to recognize the work of professionals. There are autonomous communities that already do, which have already recovered rights for workers, such as Euskadi. I like it, when you put examples here from autonomous communities, as we said yesterday, that you also set some good examples, because it seems like you only set examples when you want to compare the worst. However, without needing to leave Galicia, I remember that 2008 government agreement which signed that agreement to recover rights and to recover professional career. Finally, questions that professionals deserve and which are not being given out. This brings with it a rather serious problem that we've seen defending and denouncing for a long time, which is the over-exploitation of our staff. We have a health system that works thanks to our professionals and despite our leaders. We have a health system that works with staff who's making an effort that they're going to start paying physically and mentally. A very hard effort in his work because they are not able to disconnect; they come home and are calling to see how the sick was; they are pending to do all the necessary shifts to keep the service of quality, because they are responsible for the public service they are doing. We have professionals with a huge over- effort who will fall into professional burn problems. We have staff who are not recognized. We have, yesterday, one of Spain's worst health-care professionals per person. We have the worst annual fall in the ratio of professionals per person from all over Spain, just exceeding Ceuta. We have one of the worst pay conditions in all of Spain. The best personnel ratios in Spain were quoted yesterday: Euskadi, Navarra, Aragon and Asturias. None of them governed by the People's Party. Yesterday I was rebuked for using the health barometer to give some data. I was told, you only use two data. I had the chance to read three minutes and remember some more of them. Of course, I only gave you two data. We can do a full monograph on the health barometer, and then, in addition to the two data I always give, one of the three worst health treatments rated by users across Spain. And also another data I give: 4 out of 5 users say that Welsh health needs improvements. I can also give another data: less than 50 percent of the population in Greece says their authorities give you enough information about health. I can also say that 75% say that waiting lists in recent years are equal or worse. I can also say that 3 out of every 20 people say that health has improved over the last five years and the other 17 say otherwise. I can say this and we can all say a lot of things. What the health barometer surveys say is what we've been defending here for a while: that people, users, highly value their professionals and clearly suspend their managers. And what we defend is that our health is basically sustained because we have the best professionals in the world. But it's not worth saying up here that we have some great professionals, what we have to do is pay them as they deserve, give them the work rights they deserve and respect them as they deserve. That is why we are going to support this and other initiatives that come in this direction, which we welcome to arrive. Because -- I insist -- we have one of the best sanities in the world thanks to our professionals and despite our leaders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u91	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u92	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. I also greet the representatives of the workers who are up in the rostrum. I want to start by telling Mrs Solla that the emergencies are to be met, both in the health centers and in the CAP, those patients who enter the door. And if an infarction or a traffic accident is not an emergency, you'll tell us when you get back here what's an emergency. [[Applause]] The Agreement on the Management and Provision of Jobs, Days, Remunerations and Conditions of Work of Medical Personnel and Nursing Graduates of Continued Care Points was published in the Official Journal of Galicia No. 115 of June 16, 2008. This agreement provides, in view of the characteristics of the jobs of the CAPs, and above the salaries provided for in the applicable regulations for primary nursing medical staff and university graduates, for the additional remuneration of several specific factors in the performance of their functions, such as nightlife and holidays. The same agreement also establishes the gradual application of the above-mentioned increases in remuneration, indicating that the planned amounts for the night and holiday supplements would be applied in 2008 with 40%, in 2009 with another 40%, reaching 80%, and the remaining 20% would be in 2010. Similarly, the 2008-2012 agreement was published in the Official Journal of Galicia on 10 December 2008 to improve the working conditions paid by the staff of the Galician Health Service, which incorporates a series of specific forecasts in relation to the night and holiday factors collected in the previous agreement, together with the distribution according to a time sequence that began in 2008 itself and would reach until 2012. Having said the above, it is necessary to underline that the aforementioned agreements were carried out during the years 2008 and 2009, not since 2010 for reasons arising from the direct compliance with the principle of legality to which the Administration is necessarily subject, in accordance with Article 103.1 and in accordance with the Spanish Constitution. Thus, and since the Law on General Budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2010, successive annual budgetary regulations have been collecting, within the basis of the economic activity relating to staff costs, a mandate under which, and due to current economic circumstances, the application of agreements and agreements which entail wage increases is suspended, based on Article 38.10 of the Public Employee Basic Status Act. In compliance with the statute itself, in the sectoral staff bargaining bureau...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u93	Wait a minute, Mrs. Friend. The guests in the gallery can't make any sort of... it's the rule in Parliament. So I beg you, please, if you can fulfill it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u94	As I said in compliance with the Statute itself, in the Sectoral Bureau for the Negotiation of the Staff of the Galician Health Service, the Health Administration has given account to trade union organizations representing the suspension of agreements and agreements which involve increases in remuneration for the staff of the body, as well as the causes of the suspension collected in the same law. On the other hand, the conformity of this action with the set of the legal order was ratified in fact reiterated by several judicial bodies of judicial order in Galicia. As regards the alleged violation of the principle of equality, which has also been invoked by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, it is not possible to accept direct comparison with other groups; for example, hospital care staff, whose day-to-day, conditions and scope, as well as the rules governing their remuneration regime, are different from those of the CAPs. In this respect, it should be noted that the Constitutional Court has been interpreting since its judgment 67/1982 of 15 November, that the principle of equality does not prohibit a normative provision or different legal application if a objective and reasonable justification is agreed for this. Mrs. Solla, you are specialists in saying one thing and the opposite is unchanged. Yesterday they voted against a law that allows a 1% rise for all public employees. Be consistent, I don't know if that's too much to ask. They cannot ask for wage increases for a group and in the same plenary room to vote against the law and vote against the social expenditure reinforcement that will be made by the Government of the Union, among which is a remarkable share of improvements in health, investing, for example, 1,400 million euros in the Greek vaccination programme, 61.261 million euros in pharmaceuticals and health materials, in what is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u96	...the total treatment of all patients with hepatitis C, EUR 1 billion in municipal health centers reforms, among others, and also in drug addiction. I didn't want to finish this show without saying that we're here in Galicia, not Andalusia. Andalucía is where the worst salaries are paid. We're between the minimum...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u98	...is the Autonomous Community that pays less per hour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u100	...to which you have the lowest gross pay per hour. We can't confuse ourselves and we have to tell the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u101	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u102	Thank you, President. I don't know what you mean by the emergencies, I don't understand. Of course it's emergencies, it's obvious, and they take care of all kinds of emergencies. And you have no resources to take care of those emergencies, and they don't pay the whole salary either. At least I appreciate the support of the opposition groups. And with regard to the amendment, if the proposed group is good enough, we can accept it as an addition, because it is true that there are other agreements that are not met. We also meet with trade union centres and it's shameful, because despite the fact that the government is defending an increase in GDP, a forecast of an increase of more than 2%, it turns out that, in parallel, the professionals are not compensated for all the cuts and hardships that have not only been practised for all these years, but today they are suffering, because we discussed yesterday that staff vacations are not paid either, and that also increases the workload. But in the case of these professionals, it's even more serious, because we're not even talking about an increase in pay, but about an equalization of their salary with the rest of the medical and nursing professionals. It is rather embarrassing — I repeat once again — to have to bring this initiative and, above all, hear to justify and defend that they are withdrawn every month by 20% of a relevant part of the salary. I'm sure you have no problem with investing them in other things. And I have to say here that the debate on the modification of budgets was yesterday, Mrs. Friend, and you should pay attention to the arguments given by the parliamentary group, among other things, using the People's Party as a means of bringing the law here, without the possibility that this group and the other groups present amendments. Besides, don't forget that there are games for private health, because during all these years, while you've cut these professionals and the rest of the public health professionals, the private has continued to increase the benefits, in private there are no beds, in private there are no restrictions, and you've been increasing each year, according to the Board of Auditors, what they devote to private. There are no problems there, there are no restrictions there and there are no restrictions on the rules of the European Union. You can't transfer to professionals the suffering that you yourself cause. And in this case, when you talk about these budgetary restrictions, it's incomprehensible that these restrictions are maintained while at the same time you defend that there is an economic recovery. The incoherents are you; those who say that they defend health care and do not support health professionals are you; those who say that there is recovery and keep cuts are you; the same thing that happens to the professionals of the rest of Galician Union, who have also suspended their collective agreement because of Law 1/2012 that you keep. But in this case — I repeat once again — we are not talking about an increase in wages, but about equalizing the wage to that of the rest of Sergas professionals. You support Sergas professionals a lot, but then you keep doctors, doctors, nurses and nurses without paying the full salary. I think it's the least you have to do with the Galician board, pay the health professionals. But you don't even have the ability to do that. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José González Vázquez and 13 Members of Parliament, on the action to be taken by the Council of Galicia in relation to the amendment of the amended text of the Law on Local Farms concerning taxes on value increases in urban land, as well as those intended to require the Greek Councils to authorize the mechanisms to speed up the procedures necessary to return the amounts charged to the affected taxpayers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u104	All parliamentary groups have been amended.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u105	Mr. González Vázquez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u106	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating an initiative by our parliamentary group on tax on the increase in the value of urban land which is regulated in the Royal Legislative Decree 2/2004, of the Consolidated Text of the Law on Local Farms. From now on I'm going to call — to understand us all — the municipal surplus, because it's what it's commonly called. We are talking about an initiative which we have also discussed in Commission 3a — not this initiative, but initiatives by the opposition groups — with different resolution texts, of course. To make a brief explanation of the plus-valy tax, what we're talking about, first of all, we have to point out that it's a local tax; that is, it's a municipal tax. And it's also a tax of so-called powers; that is, within the autonomy that the municipalities have, you can have or may not collect. According to data from 2017 of the Ministry of Business, the municipalities that have approved types to apply this tax in Galicia are 115. We're mainly talking about the seven cities and the county heads. If we go to the distribution by provinces, we have the surplus value in Coruña in 52 municipalities; in Lugo in 10; in Ourense in 13; in Pontevedra in 40. What's the record of the surplus? The taxable fact of tax is the increase in value that urban lands experience and which is made manifest the consequence of the transmission of land property for any reason. I mean, the most common case, and what we can mainly care about is the citizens who are affected, is the sale of an apartment, for example, which is urban land. At this point, the increase in value is quantified and the added value is quantified. The problem — and here is the question that brings us today with regard to this initiative — is that tax quantification is done objectively; that is, it does not address the real increase in value that could have been produced, but it is done objectively, taking into account two elements. On the one hand, the cadastral value, and on the other hand, the time of residence of the immovable in the estate of what the sale does, with a limit in this case of twenty years. It is true that this method of quantification has been established for reasons of simplification, of application of the tax, but it causes situations — we will now see what is the whole problem — in which, although there is no increase in value, or even a loss of value, the application of the rule determines taxation by this tax. I have to say that in recent years the problem has increased because the real estate crisis has caused a widespread loss of the value of urban real estate. So, as a first approximation, and in order for us all to understand, we have to underline that an important part of those affected are those who because of the difficulties of paying their mortgages had to spoil their floors. In practically all of these cases made a loss sale; that is, we bought the floor for 100,000 and we had to sell it, for economic difficulties, for 80,000, for example, and we have a loss of 20,000. The view that municipal surplus value should not be paid in those cases where a loss was sold led to a series of judicial claims that ultimately led to the raising of issues of unconstitutionality before the Constitutional Court. What was said here is that recording when a loss occurs is contrary to the principle of economic capacity contained in Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution. It seems clear to our parliamentary group, of course, that there should be no taxation in those cases where there was no increase in value; that is, in sales on loss. This also welcomed him by the Constitutional Court, first by judgements in which he declared unconstitutional the legislation of the Basque Country; judgments of 16 February and 1 March of the Constitutional Court. And finally national rule articles 107 and 110 of the Act regulating local farms, in the judgement of May 11, 2017. In this judgment, there are unconstitutional and nullifying articles of the local farm law only insofar as they subject taxation to situations of lack of value increases. I repeat again: sales the loss. We have to be clear, ladies and gentlemen, at this point, especially if we do not want to cause confusion in the citizens of Greece who have been contributors. First, the Constitutional Court clearly points out that municipal surplus value is not generally contrary to the Spanish Constitution; it is only in those alleged to be taxing cases that do not reflect economic capacity. I repeat again: sales with loss. It does not therefore affect cases in which there has been an increase in value, although the method of calculation — I repeated again — remains objective and there could be some problem in the future; but, for now, it only declares unconstitutional to write with surplus value in sales the loss. Secondly — and this is also important — the judgment does not provide a limitation of effects, which determines that we will have to carry out — or the councils will have to do — the returns of all the alleged ones in which the surplus was paid in cases of sales the loss corresponding to the unprescribed exercises. Because, ladies and gentlemen, tax obligations have a limitation period, covered by a constitutional principle, which is the principle of legal security. I mean, we can't go backwards, ad infinity, without consideration of a temporal period. Ladies and gentlemen, we are undoubtedly faced with a problem of great relevance to the number of people affected and to the extent of the amounts unduly charged. Look, we are currently handling a report by tax collector Tinsa, who is public, who estimates that those affected in the Spanish state as a whole are around 550,000 citizens. In Galicia, the number of cases in which it was paid increased without the housing actually increased its value would be around 18,300 since 2013. By provinces, almost half of lost sales were produced in Coruña, 8,100, followed by Pontevedra, 5,600, Lugo, 2,600 and Ourense, 2,000. We're talking about that the Greek Councils in 2015, which is the last of our data, raised more than 41 million euros for this tax. The seven cities have raised 80% of these 41 million, almost 29 million euros. 8 out of every 10 euros collected by this tax lie in the provinces of Coruña and Pontevedra. Many of the sales cases with losses correspond to landowners, probably bought at the time of high prices — from 2000 to 2009 — which were sold at times when housing prices were very low. These are, ladies and gentlemen, humble people who couldn't support their mortgages and had to spoil their homes — these are really affected! — at an average amount, each of them, of EUR 4,500 — which is not baladi, are money. So our initiative is divided into two points. The first is to ask the Government of Spain to amend the recast text of the Law regulating local farms to comply with the judgments of the Constitutional Court. It is that this is state competition, the rule is state and, therefore, there is a need to change the regulation regulating local estates to prevent it from continuing to be recorded with surplus value in cases of sale of loss. This means adjusting the rules for the future, but we have to resolve the previous situations, because — I repeat — the judgments of the Constitutional Court, what they are saying is that there is no limitation of effects; therefore, there is a possibility of requesting the return. Given the profile of those affected, who — I repeat — are essentially people who have had to spoil their homes, we understand — and this is the reason for the second point of our initiative — that the main concern of the municipalities that have unduly raised must be the axillization of the returns of improperly charged surpluses. That is why at the second point of our initiative, which I think should be supported by all groups, we call on the Greek Councils to empower mechanisms to return the affected taxpayers to the amounts unduly collected. And we also call for these mechanisms to promote the return as effectively as possible and through agile procedures, and that there is no conflict on this issue: it is a matter resolved by the Constitutional Court and the municipalities what they have to do is return. We understand that in the configuration of these procedures we must take account of the fact that there is no return of office on the part of the municipalities, we shall not go along with things that have no legal support; the initiative of the taxpayers concerned must be taken. What the municipalities have to do is properly inform people so they don't lose their right to complain. Look, if the mechanism used by the council to collect this tax is self-liquidation, taxpayers will have to submit the correction of that self-liquidation and the consequent return of undue income; and they have a four-year period to do so. If the mechanism used, although not common, was to be liquidated, there would have to be some extraordinary review procedure provided for by the General Tax Law. I understand, or our group understands, that it should probably be the procedure for revocation. We also understand that the return procedures to be carried out by the municipalities must simplify the evidentiary requirements for taxpayers in order to believe the sale with loss. What we can't do is, by dilating the procedure, by asking for more evidence and more evidence, many of them impossible to comply with, our citizens lose the right to return. All this, ladies and gentlemen, in order to facilitate the recovery by those affected by the amounts unduly collected and, at the same time, to avoid the judicialization of proceedings. I mean, to protect taxpayers who paid the tax unduly. Since this proposal too, we cannot defend that it is the State that assumes responsibility for the return, by economically compensating the municipalities for this amount. Today there is a reform of local finance: there is a need to discuss, in your case, an integral reform of this tax. It's a complex theme, especially because of the difficulty in determining which indicators are the most axile, the most appropriate ones, to reflect the return of the value of the immovables. There is a document from the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces that has already proposed some measures. But beyond that taxation legislation is state, the fact is that whoever has to proceed with the return is the council. The protection of citizens' rights undoubtedly requires that the municipalities give an agile and simple response to those affected. We can't help ourselves in supposed responsibilities of the legislator state to delay the payments we have to make to the citizens. Only in this way can the municipalities adequately defend the rights of the citizens concerned. This, ladies and gentlemen, and not another — especially the second point — is the objective of my parliamentary group's initiative today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u107	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u108	With regard to the return of the tax known as plus-validation tax, in case of no increase in the value of land or immovable property, of course, it seems fair to us and, in addition, it is legal, because there are judgments because they require that return. By the way, a return that was already being made administratively, for claims already settled by economic and administrative courts that challenged specific tax liquidations. And there were also court rulings that forced the council to return this tax wrongly charged, with an argument that is absolutely powerful: the payment of the tax cannot be made when the act was not made taxable; that is, there is an increase in the value. I think we all agree. Now, in the last two years, there has been the novelty of the Constitutional Court's judgments establishing the unconstitutionality of this law and its application. Although it is initially referred to a rule of the historical territory of Guipúscoa, the tax on the increase in the value of urban land, the truth is that this standard has the same contents, practically the same as articles 107 and 110 of the Royal Legislative Decree so the recast text of the Law regulating local farms is approved. Those judgments are therefore also to be complied with in the entire sphere of the State. Although it is also true that it has its complexity the procedure to comply with this sentence and, in this sense, there are some reports, and also one of the Fegamp, who speaks of this complexity and the interpretation of these judgments. As the spokesperson for the People's Party said, it affects 115 municipalities that have this tax, which is also the second or third source of income, and, as already said, especially in the case of cities. We therefore believe that common criteria should be laid down for the entire scope of the State — for the whole of the Italian sphere from the outset — for the interpretation and application of the judgment. And who should do it, we understand, should be the Ministry of the Fairy, so that it has general application and common agreement for all cases. We also, of course, agree that there is a need to change the law on local farms, to make it the Government of the State, and we have already made an announcement that it would be done within a relatively short time; but for our news, for our information, the processing has not yet begun. In any case, we insist: we insist that this change should be agreed with the FEMP and that it should go — we understand — in the sense that it has already done the rule of the Guipúscoa Special Deputies, which has established the cases in which this tax should be charged. In the meantime, the law is not amended, as we have said, and we believe that a coherent and common approach should be applied and, in this sense, this report exists. I have here a report from the Fegamp setting out a number of criteria for the application of the rule. And we also find it essential, and we insist very much, and our amendments also go in this direction, that a compensation mechanism should be established for the municipalities by the Ministry of the Farm, because it was the Government of the State responsible for the adoption and enforcement of the law. And although it's an optional tax, the reality is that the municipalities are using a prerogative that gives them the law to apply this rule and to charge the tax. It is therefore going to assume an important decrease in income, in the funding of the municipalities, which is already coupled with the funding deficit of the Greek municipalities, who are suffering from a situation — as we have already stated here — which is absolutely unfair about local funding, with income far below the average of the state. So this justifies — we think — more rightly the necessary compensation for the municipalities affected by this decline in income. So our willingness to approve this initiative is, in any case, with a series of amendments that we propose. The first, on which the regulatory change should be agreed, the legislative change, with the FEMP; it should be negotiated in the field of the FEMP. The second is compensation to the municipalities, giving the fact that they have to make the return and that it has to be by a procedure, of course, agile. And the third is that we have established clear and common criteria to regulate that return. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u109	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. González Vázquez, it is curious that today he brings here an initiative which has been presented on two occasions in committee. First, in Commission 3a, presented by the Group of the Environment and second, in Commission 1a, submitted by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia. I'd like to know what the reason for change was. Perhaps relations with the state are not at the best, or perhaps the mayors and mayors of the People's Party have taken them out of their ears, since it's hardly understandable by local corporations. You voted against on two occasions and, as I recall, you did not ask for a point vote; that is, you justified that you would vote against and you voted against the initiatives that basically asked practically the same thing as you see in your non-law proposal. It is true that you, at your initiative — and in addition to your presentation, have already commented on it — do not expect the municipalities to be compensated for not receiving this part of the income, deepening even further on the grave situation of local farms; and, in addition, tell us that in local funding it is the place where these compensations should be taken into account. And I ask you, when will this final solution of local funding be? When are you going to assume? When will the State and the Autonomous Community take it into account? Because every time we bring here, this Parliament, something to solve the financing of local corporations, the People's Party votes against forever, in any case. [[Applause]] So you were also telling us that the legislator taxed this tax in an objective way and that it was a simplification. But you point to something important: the legislator. So it must be the legislator, once he falls under a Constitutional Court ruling a part of that legislate tax, which he has to make up for those errors and thus compensate for those losses. And in this case, make up for the municipalities that were applying the law that the legislator allowed them to apply to their municipalities. So you have to take the mistakes you made. Look, I'm not going to enter the Constitutional Court's rulings because you've already done it, but if I mean, by February 16, 2017, there was a ruling in Guipúzcoa that opened the door for passive subjects to be able to recover their payments to the municipalities for this concept. But the Ministry of Fairy didn't do its homework, and therefore from that moment on it had to have already crafted a formula to articulate and regulate this situation, which he knew he would soon give. And that's how May 11 extended all over the Spanish territory. But look, I'm telling you more, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, the FEMP, has indeed prepared this document; a document which also sent to the Ministry of Farm to resolve as quickly as possible, moving forward work — I insist — that the Ministry of Farm had to do once the February sentence was met. This document referring to the FEMP covers three points. In the first they demanded the executive to compensate for those municipalities that had approved the tax on the date of publication of the judgment for the loss of collection. Paragraph 2 requires the Ministry of the Farm to publish a clarification note on the procedure of action until such time as this reform is approved. And finally, ask you to set up a joint working group between the Central Government and the FEMP to carry out the terms of that reform. In this document it also presents two alternatives: one would be to change the tax depending on the evolution of the real estate market and the other, the second, which would be by the taxpayer's economic capacity. The first would depend on the real evolution of the real estate market, taking into account the coefficients of variation of the soil price in each municipality and with reference to the cadastral value. And they also propose to record the gains below the year so that all contribute equally to the support of public expenditure. And on the other hand, they say that this measure could help taxpayers to believe, in case it was, that there is no increase in the value for the calculation of the taxable base in the said period. But they put forward a second proposal, and it depends on the taxpayer's economic capacity. It is to enter the surplus value within the IRPF, replacing the current target base with another that sets the actual economic capacity of the subject. This option seeks to minimize tax litigation by giving the taxpayer the greatest relevance to the taxpayer's economic capacity. It also introduces a new change.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u112	And it is that they would also record rustic buildings and also record surpluses generated within the year, to avoid double taxation. Since the profit obtained in the sale of a housing or property is also taxed in the IRPF, this fee already paid for by this tribute may be deducted from State taxes. And in addition, I'm telling you more, the experts, the expert committee that appointed the Ministry of Business, are in principle in line with this second option that is put before them. And that's why we tabled amendments to the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u113	Thank you. You know each other.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u114	You know the amendments. And so I think you should reconsider your approval at this point too, since the municipalities don't have to pay for the errors of legislators. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Mr Sánchez, for the Group of Parliament in Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u116	Good morning. Here in the German Parliament we're already used to the parliamentary pirouettes of the People's Party, we're no longer surprised at anything. Since they accuse us, from the party that received bottles of Vega Sicilia from companies that have been granted ten years, from being us with companies, because we can expect anything. That's why this initiative does not surprise us, either. Also when Mr. Feijóo talks about zero taxes in rural areas, and when the data say that between 2013 and 2016 the increase in the collection of the values of the rustic goods of the Greek municipalities increased by 50%, which comes to mean 1,285 million euros, we can expect everything. Because here does not rule the reason or the arguments. What prevails here is the force and irrationality of a People's Party that says: we have 41 and we can approve what we want, we can sell what we want, we control the message outside and so we're going to reason! Still, we get up every morning with the firm purpose of using the only thing we can have, which is the reason. That is to say, we have presented an initiative to the 3rd Commission on that — as you have already said —. You voted against. What are we talking about? We're talking about we agree on almost everything you said here, Mr. González Vázquez, of course. But what is declared unconstitutional is a law that allowed the tax of surplus to be charged to those who had no profit or increase in value. So we did our initiative already when the norm was unconstitutionally challenged — because it had the same wording as the state rule, so we did, and it was later confirmed by the following judgment, which also questions Article 104.1 and 107 of the regulating text of the local farm law approved by Mr Aznar. Why do you come to say that it is a power to use? Yes, of course it's power. It's a legal instrument that the municipalities have. This sentence is not because the municipalities illegally applied this, they applied legally. Well, but you're making a very serious political trap, which is to say, the municipalities had to pay services at the worst of the crisis and they had a resource portfolio to collect enough to give these services; in a context where you also passed other laws that undermined your financial capacity and did not make that reform of the local funding you've been talking about. Because this has already taken effect now, but here is a unanimous agreement of the Greek Parliament to call for the reform of local funding, which severely discriminates against the Greek municipalities, since 2014. And you and this government didn't move a finger in Madrid to change this funding regime. So, a mayor, a government that has to ask for services, because it has a perfectly legal instrument, plus-validation tax. Would you like to apply it more precisely? Well, possibly when there was a value increment. Well, apply it perfectly, legally. And then you're now forcing the municipalities to return the unduly charged because they have applied the law approved by Mr. Aznar, right? And that, indirectly, is punishing citizenship. Obviously, they're returning money that's been paid... please! I've already said I'll try to reason. I mean, he's paying back the bill improperly but he's paying a council that has to deduct from his budget — that he has to pay social expenditure, that he has to pay works, that he has to pay maintenance — to pay for a responsibility of the Central Government of the People's Party. That's what you're proposing. They're proposing this today. We agree that we have to return what has been wrongly collected. Don't come back here and give us a master's class of how it works. We already know it's only when there's no value increment. That's what we put on the initiative you voted against. The question is why you want to carry the dead to the Town Councils. You have shifted the solution—Cospedal style—to the reform of local funding. For when? For when is the reform of local funding? What assurance is there that this reform of local finance will not go in the same way that you have done drowning the autonomy of the municipalities? This is precisely what we and all the opposition are presenting in the amendment, responsibility. As also states in Article 32 of Law 40/2015, when the injury is the result of the application of a rule of unconstitutional declared law, it is necessary to assume responsibility and that the consumer to whom it has been unduly charged is returned — in Law 40/2015, despite the fact that it is very restrictive, yes it is stated. So it's cash, it's fair that people are returned to what they had to pay unjustly for a law that passed the People's Party of Aznar, and that the State assumes responsibility as a legislator. Because the sentence that demands is the change of the law of the State. The sentence calls for the legislator to change the law. We do not urge, do not urge the People's Party, it is already implied in the judgment that the law must be reformed, of course. And, therefore, you want to bottle up once again the responsibility for the municipalities, when responsibility is -- very clear, very clear, very clear -- for a bad drafting of two articles of the Local Farm Law. You will pass the knee, do whatever you want here, but the truth has only one way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u117	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u118	Ladies and gentlemen. When you make so many pirouettes, it's hard to argue. But I'm going to try to remember what the People's Party culture spokesman said yesterday, that we're going to try to be strict. So I'm going to refer a little bit to the amendments, to see if I can convince them; at least, we're here to try. Look, in advance, I want to make a reflection. I believe that Parliament, the German Parliament and all the parliaments are going to defend the citizens. Now it turns out that the municipalities also vote, now it turns out that the municipalities also vote. Here's a clear thing, the second point — and I already tell you that both the Bloc and En Marea don't want this second point — says, "Asking the Greek municipalities for the ability of mechanisms to return the affected taxpayers to the unduly collected amounts." I've explained before that these contributors are people who had to spoil their homes. We owe every one of them 4,500 euros. We also ask, we also ask... look, I'm telling you that rigor is shown with data, and, if you like, I'll do the math without any problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look at what we asked for. And at this point in our amendment they say no, they load themselves completely... and then we'll see how strict your amendment is, Mr. Sánchez. We also call for these mechanisms to promote the return as effectively as possible by axillary procedures in order to avoid conflict in this area of taxation. But we're going to see! when you're talking about ground clauses, aren't we all saying the same thing? We must defend the citizens who have unduly paid this tax. And there's one thing, which is the legal rules. The one who has to return is the one who picked up, which is the county. We can talk... if I'm sorry, I didn't interrupt. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All I'm saying is that we're not talking right now about the councils and the terms of negotiation that have to do with the state. We're talking about citizens, who we want to defend, of course. So, except for the Socialist Party — which does not remove in its amendment — makes an amendment to addendum, the other opposition parties make a substitution amendment just so that we do not return. In particular, in Marea we are told that a transitional provision must be included so that, regardless of the date of the effects of the liquidations carried out... Mr. Sánchez, rigour! Tax prescription is four years. We can't do this. But how will this be done! And how old are you? Twenty-five? "Let the Town Councils return on their own." Mr. Sánchez, rigor! You can't do it on your own. It's a self-reliance procedure. Perhaps your concern is that in the municipalities 8 out of 10 euros are from the province of Coruña and Pontevedra, and we all know who rules in those municipalities. Maybe they're more concerned about these councils than about citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u119	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u120	Look, to the humble people who couldn't afford their mortgages, we have to make the return agile. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mrs. Rumbo, I listened to your explanation of the FEMP document, not of the Fegamp, but of the FEMP. I know that document, but I understand what I'm going to transfer to it: it's about the future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u121	Don't talk! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, Mr. Vega, don't dialogue. None! Silence! It's always the same. Please don't dialogue. It's always the same, they're already famous. [[Murmurs.]] Please, shut up! Let's go to this, which seems quite interesting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u122	I ask you to give me another thirty seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u123	Of course you do, because he's been interrupted. Thirty seconds. Come on, let's go!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u124	Rigor, Mr. Sánchez! That's how we end well. Rigor! Look, I'd say we're talking about proposals for the future, but there are now decisions that can be made. For example, the Malaga Council decided to suspend, for the time being, cases in which it had been clear that there were no increases in value. However, the Town Hall of Coruña, is filling the taxpayers' demands for returns — according to the answer they gave the other day — of petitions and impossible evidence precisely to avoid returning. That's your policy, and that's what's behind your amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u125	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u126	And we won't accept any of them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u127	You don't accept any, okay. Well, thank you very much. [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence! Silence, Mr. Sánchez! Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Mr. Sánchez, be quiet, if not, I'll have to call him in order, and I didn't want to, that we're in the last round. I don't want to call anyone in order. Let's see if we can finish the full without calling anyone's order, please. Let's go! G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Nationalist Bloc on Enlargement of Competences of the Commission on Boxes to Investigate the Fall of Banco Pastor
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u128	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u129	So let's see if we finish the last full session without calling to order and deciding something important, like this proposal we bring today from BNG. Well, as we all know, nearly ten years ago, a deep crisis was going on, which would definitely affect financial sector configuration. But we think that 2008 will not be remembered only in history, not only will it have history to study it, because it is the beginning of a deep crisis, which will also represent a crisis of the system and not just a financial crisis. We think it will also have to be studied for being the starting point for a whole escalation of decisions, many of them politics, which, under that label of banking restructuring, have walked against the interests of the social majority, and with serious consequences that come to this day. The beginning of this so-called crisis has opened up an opportunity, it has been able to open up a path: to strengthen transparency, control and intervention capacity from the public sectors in order to prevent the repetition of the processes that led us to that point, such as the real estate bubble. However, the big parties of the state, PP and PSOE, in complicity also with the large families of the bank, decided to undertake another, the way of banking restructuring, which, far from being an emergency treatment, was to see a planned strategy; a leading strategy to concentrate and centralize the financial sector that made it happen key milestones that condition the economic landscape. First of all, it's worth recalling a question that we've been looking at by the kid here, which is that the savings boxes have been privatized and converted into banks. There were also millions of bank ransoms and some entities were absorbing others. It has therefore come up with a process which, in the light of recent events, we can say that it is not finished and that it has brought together the reduction in the number of entities and therefore the concentration of more and more economic power in less hands. These consequences that may seem abstract affect in a very important way the Greek economy, in general, and the life of the Greeks and the Greeks, in a more concrete way. Because, look, we're not only talking about concentration, we're talking about centralization. And in this process of centralization, Galicia always loses. On the one hand, there is a smaller number of entities on the board. When that restructuring process started, we had about ten, and now we can count on them with one hand. Therefore, decision-making centres are gradually moving away, and thus the original sense of boxes as being linked to the territory has also been denaturalized. But it was also lost, as I said, the ability to decide. This centralization brings less capacity for intervention and control by the German public sector. It is no less — and then we will talk more about it — than supervision is now to be unique by the central state institutions, because, as we shall see, it is not much less to be satisfied. They won't say it's not paradoxical. The big bank, the trigger of an important part of that big crisis, more deregulated rather than more controlled. Almost a decade later, we can see that the crisis has been exploited by the bank and the most incarnated neoliberalism to avoid greater control over these services, this financial system. So they favored their interests and they came back to food at the expense of workers and workers, at the expense of the majority of society, that we were the ones who suffered the most. Instead of disposing of the responsibility of those who decided to do so, we saw more and more resources to sustain an absolutely dark financial entrenchment. However, despite that darkness, years later the figures are coming out. And now we've seen how, for example, in January, the Court of Auditors accounted for more than 60 billion euros for the public ransom, some figures that have just endorsed the Banco de España report as well. Those figures are absolutely unabated, and to make ourselves an idea, they are equivalent to the budget of the Union over six years. The hemerotheque, in addition, is cursed. They also recently circulated on social networks the statements made by Mr De Gindos in May 2012, for those from here we propose to give the state prize to cynicism, because he said then — and I will literally read —: "I would like to specify it very clearly: here there is no cost for the Spanish taxpayers.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Now the Banco de España has just recognized that this whole rescue will only be recovered about 20% of the total, around only 20% of the total. What is this — I wonder — if it's not a big scam, a big scam accompanied, in addition, by major policy cuts, anti-social policies, a progressive loss of right-wing orchestrated rights? Because, in the face of a scam, you can either react or be part of it. And, of course, the People's Party has been and is part of the big banking scam. Without his complicity it wouldn't have been possible. I'm going to put, for lack of time, just a practical example of the repercussions that this can have on the lives of all of us and on the lives of many generations: the question of pensions. Over the past few years, they have been trying to convince us from Madrid that we also live with pensions above our possibilities, that this system — no doubt better — cannot be maintained, so that it goes on towards privatization, too, of the issue of pensions. Well, if more than 54,000 million euros have been withdrawn since 2012 from the pension reserve fund and the bank rescue cost a similar amount to the maximum that has been accumulated in this pension reserve fund, because we will have to ask ourselves: can't the pensions be supported or must the large bank be supported? Finally, as we say, for us, in this great scam, there are responsibilities, in the entities, in the management teams, but also political responsibilities in the parties and people who allowed this policy to let go. Then, in the replica, I'll stop in a few more examples. Now, recently, as your lordships know and as we've already talked about here, the sale at the People's Bank balance price was consumed; a new calote sponsored, in addition, by the supervisors. The consequences are tremendous — then we will talk more about them — a smaller financial offer, a triple commercial network, which will have closed down services and will surely have a very important labour cost for workers directly from these entities and auxiliary companies, and a scam for many people, many of them, and many of them pastoral workers and trusted clients who have been coerced. But this sale has to be seen further, you have to see it as a whole, and what it means, because it's proof that the ransom was not only expensive but that it was ineffective and that the problems of the big bank, far from being solved, continue, and that the state and Greek governments, as well as the regulators, for some responsibility have. For example, since the Banco de España's lack of control over the lack of action by the CNMV in relation to the bassist bet against the Banco Popular, and also a previously found use of privileged information by Banco Santander and also a dubious role of the single resolution mechanism and other superstate instruments. Well, in conclusion, in the light of the facts, from the Galician Nationalist Block, we think that in this scenario, of course, what doesn't fit is a passive attitude, which is not to say that we have no competences. So on this issue that affects us so fundamentally and that affects the lives of so many people, which affects the present and future of our productive fabric, which is not our competition, it is therefore impossible to sit down without doing anything. We understand you can't tell the supervisors that you failed to supervise. This is like somebody copying on an exam and for the next exam we say it's the person who's watching himself. Nor can we — we understand — trust the Spanish State or what Congress can do for us. So since the Nationalist Block Galego we understand it's time to sit down seriously and investigate this issue. We understand that the Galician Parliament must exercise its powers and open up a process of research into the various actions and responsibilities of the executive board, the supervisory bodies and the Greek and central governments that triggered this fraudulent sale and liquidation of the Banco Pastor, which had already absorbed the Popular. And therefore, in the light of facts, it is absolutely appropriate to extend the well-known Cash Commission and to include as a specific object of its study this sale of the People's Bank. It is necessary to investigate, therefore, the causes and consequences for our country, in this country, from this area. We understand that we owe this to every generation present and future who will pay for this great scam. It cannot, moreover, already the object of investigation which we had set to culminate in making that there was no such sale of the People's Party, because the scope would be absolutely stolen. I end my speech and I insist that we can't even trust the supervisors who failed and were complicit in this sale whether they are self-investigating or whether the Spanish State, which also has much to do with all these movements, is self-investigating. We have to exercise from Galicia our political capacity to know what has happened to this issue, and to do something that in almost ten years of banking crisis has not been done since any of the agents, which is to learn, correct and intervene so that this does not happen again, so that this will not happen again and we will not be faced with a new crisis in a few years, with the same results and with a worsening of the living conditions of all of us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that what is happening is what happened with the Banco Popular-Pastor and the Banco de Santander is exactly that Hitchcock movie, perfect Crime, in which there are indeed victims but there are no culprits. And there's no guilty up to levels, let's say, of squatting absolutely amazing information. Today we see in the media as mentioned in the report by the Brussels Single Resolution Board on this sale process, a report that was theoretically hung on the website, I understand that when all the media in this country wrote those news yesterday night, by the way. And, of course, this Member this morning was absolutely impossible to find the same thing. It's true that it may be a skill problem, but the truth is it's not hanging, at least where logically it should be hanging. There is a later initiative of the Socialist Group, of my group, in which we are actually going to focus on the negative effects on Galicia, to which finally the spokesperson of the BNG has already referred. And I think they are grouped into four blocks: the absolutely brutal oligopolitic concentration — 75% in the hands of two agents — the closure of offices and the loss of jobs, the problem of financial exclusion and therefore the abandonment of rural areas in terms of access to financial services, and finally the disappearance or difficulties of foundations linked to banks. Actually, this is the general framework. They are effects for Galicia that socialists are fully aware that they are serious. And we socialists are committed to being vigilant in this Parliament, to monitoring and proposing alternatives to solve the negative effects that may have on citizens. But it is true that we do not want to accumulate any more frustration on the German Parliament. The case of the boxes, the commission of the boxes, in which we have systematically seen, for many reasons, the appearances, the fact of the structure and supply of information — in a case where there were powers, many or few, of an autonomous nature — because it was extremely complicated, long, prolonged. In fact, we're still in full process. And in the case of the Banco Popular-Pastor, there is no such competition at the autonomous level. Of course, there are the consequences of this sale. I insist that I don't question that at all. But I think it's appropriate to focus exactly where we consider it to be put; above all to avoid repeating mistakes, by saying so in some way. He probably had them there, and I'm going to make a quick, almost impressionist walk of the matter. There were probably bank management problems, there were obviously regulatory and oversight problems. And, of course, here we all have to reflect on the political discourse of the alleged independence of the regulatory bodies and the supervisory bodies. Because everything seems to indicate that this alleged independence does not mean greater direct capacity for action and, of course, does not mean greater effectiveness. We must also question the role of politics. I remember when it was said that the problem of boxes was the interference of political power in managing them. Well, at the People's Bank there was absolutely no interference with political power, and there's the situation. We must also question — and, as you see, I am fully aware that we must investigate and that political leaders have to be very attentive to this whole issue, and the only reason why we are going to abstain is that it seems to us that it is not the right scope — the problem of stress tests, since in fact in that dichotomy solvency-liquidity at the end we find ourselves, in the case of Banco Pastor, with an absolutely inexhaustible situation, we find ourselves with this ball of inexplicable numbers from any economic rationality, with a bank in which its value was valued in November 2016 at 6,000 million euros and which in June 2017 we speak of a negative value of between -2,000 and -8,000 million euros. I mean, we're talking about that in about seven months, 14,000 million euros are liquefied, which is inexplicable in financial terms, unexplainable in terms of management and basically respond to financial and accounting engineering, which, of course, I think is not the work of this Parliament or has the ability to do this kind of research. There is an open way in judicial terms, even in criminal terms, from scams to investors to accountancy, unfair administration or improper appropriation. We are well aware of the deception of the small shareholders. We are aware of the enormous difficulties that in the case of the workers of the banks, these banks — the People’s but especially the Pastor’s — they were pressured to buy shares that soon they undoubtedly ended up worth zero, and in many cases dragging credits for the market. But I also have to say that the Socialist Group is not going to question the capital losses of international financial groups — I don't care about the Mexican group Del Valle, the Chilean group Luksic or the fund manager PIMCO-Allianz — because we believe that it is actually part of the dynamics of the capitalist system and therefore takes a risk. So I'd rather you take over the Del Valle financial group, though it threatens to go to the High Court in Luxembourg, to be taken by the depositors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u133	...or be rescued with public money. And the small shareholders, of course, at any rate, aren't all exactly the same. There are a lot of people... I myself recognize that I like the stock market, but I recognize the risk I take when I buy shares from a certain company. And then there's a question in our opinion also very important. We will still be vigilant, because it is true that the Bank of Santander has tax credits worth €5,000 million, with which that alleged zero cost for public buildings is questionable. And we'll be careful there too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u135	But I repeat again, it's probably not about accumulating more frustrations here. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u136	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u137	Good, day. I'm going to be brief, because there are so many issues that if you talk about them, in the end, time won't come. I will support the BNG proposal. And I have to admit that for this I have to inspire poetry in Eduardo Galeano, when he says, "Men and small women, doing small things, in small places, I'm able to change the world." And I think that is the spirit — and so I understand — of the BNG proposal. The citizenry has to rebel against the permanent scam that's making us banks. It's intolerable that we suffer from a bank scam over and over and over again and we get upset, we read the newspaper, we complain, we have to rebel. And a people, a country that has a Parliament, because it must participate in that civic rebellion against the great financial scam. I'll say only three or four elements. First, the liquidation of the Popular-Pastor clearly assumes that that speech of the problem of savings boxes is false. Those who defended him, ask forgiveness. It's the Spanish financial system that you've got, what you've got, what you've got, a huge problem. Secondly, what has happened is the demonstration of the failure of banking restructuring in Spain: 120,000 million euros later, 35,000 redundancies, the closure of 13,000 offices, and the Spanish financial system remains unresolved. In this sense, the Spanish banking restructuring process has succeeded in a question: in boosting financial concentration, the Spanish financial oligopolie and also centralizing financial power in the capital of the Spanish kingdom. Then it was successful; and, in sanitizing the financial system, it wasn't. And I'm going to say, the Spanish bank is still holding its balance sheets full of financial waste. Because in the situation of the People's Bank, their risk, their exposure to real estate risk, was not much higher than that of other entities. There's a quantitative difference but not qualitative. Because the background theme is not addressed. The third question is the failure of supervisory mechanisms and control bodies. This is a really exciting theme. In June 2016, the Banco Popular-Pastor made an issue of shares of EUR 2,500 million. In order to make this issue, everyone had to act here: the audit company, the CNMV, the Banco de España, the European mechanisms, the EBA. And everyone evaluated, the supervisors came down, that the bank was solvent and that it was okay. All those supervisors had to be fired right now and charged for complicit in this scam. I want to end with an idea, which is different from what the Socialist Party thinks. I think there's a scam for the shareholders. There are shareholders who cheat and there are shareholders who are cheated. And, as it has been said, I will be pleased — as we support the BNG proposal — to say their names. In this story, in this Hitchcock movie, there are pirates, pirates, international scammers. And I'm going to like it at Parliament's headquarters to give us their names, the ones that cheat us. And it has to do with the unacceptable operation of the speculative multinational funds that acted down against the Banco Popular-Pastor. This is intolerable. I suppose all Members and Members know that acting down means that you have benefits if you can devalue the value of the company in which you act. At the Popular-Pastor Bank there was the highest concentration of financial pirates in history, to such an extent that the stock package that had the speculators down at the CNMV was 12.5%. It is clear that the main stock package of the Banco Popular-Pastor was in the hands of some financial insurgents who acted, being majority shareholders, to devalue the value of the bank. They have names: Marshal Wace, BlackRock, Melqart, Lansdowne, Smalyn, Oceanwood, PDT Partner, AQR Capital. They are American investment funds housed in tax havens that threaten the national sovereignty of the Spanish State and cause unbearable loss in terms of jobs. In front of that, BNG is right, we have to react. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr. Lago. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u138	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. As yesterday there was a lot of debate in this House about the compliance with the Rules of Procedure, the first thing I wanted to say, without this being made any condition of what I am going to say next about the contents of the GNP, is that, with the Committee on Boxes, which has a regulation and which, when you want to amend the work plan, meets the paper and convenes the commission — something that the People's Party has done and, in fact, tomorrow, we have a cash commission precisely to change the work plan — is to bring about a GNP, because it sounds more like an apology to talk about this issue here. And we have no drawback. It's just that, as some people seem to be so demanding when they comply with the Rules of Procedure in some cases, they should respect them all. On the subject, we basically agree — I hope that we will continue to be there — that it is bad news for Galicia that the People's Bank has disappeared and that it is good, in addition, that there is an investigation. We didn't just agree here in Galicia. There's more doubt. The Spanish bank inspectors also expressed their doubts. And the European Commission has also stated that this sale must be followed up. I mean, they're not doubtful people who are worried about political issues, but there are more serious doubts. What is true, that we do not agree with previous speeches is that everything is said to remain the same and that things have not changed. Things have changed, and I think they've moved for good. When there's a storm, it's when I cross the chairs. It's precisely in those moments when we have to adjust them again so no more waterways can be made and the boat sinks. The truth is, when this crisis began, there was no banking union, and it is true that there is already a banking union that has, in addition, important demonstrations. There is a European supervisory mechanism which has been exercised on this issue, there is a single resolution mechanism, which has also been exercised on this issue of the People's Bank-Pastor, there is a Single Resolution Board, which has also operated on this case. And fortunately it did not come into operation in this case — as I shall now say — the Single Resolution Fund, which replaces the old Deposit Guarantee Fund, in which there were money that provided the financial institutions, which were part of the deposits and therefore impacted the cost of the financial ransoms, or bank interventions, on the financial institutions and, in rebound, on the customers of these financial institutions. So we've got something better. And indeed, the intervention of the People's Bank was precisely what it meant that citizens' money — a first positive issue — should not be put on the table. The second positive question is that it did not affect the whole financial system at all, there was no minimum financial turbulence, no impact, for example, on the types of interest that Spain pays. And thirdly, all the shareholders' deposits were saved, all of them, whole and whole; not even the limit we saw in other countries in some kind of bank intervention. And at the same time, obviously, there are losers, there are losers. Basically the risk of employment and shareholders. We share the concern mainly for the small shareholders, especially for traditional shareholders and the workers of Banco Pastor, many of them owners of titles of the Banco Popular, and, of course, the holders of subordinated and convertible bonds, which, in fact, ran a risk and on them fell the fundamental cost of this operation. So things have changed and we don't share that everything's still the same. The second question we don't share is that we believe that we speak very lightly of the term "staff". Maybe it's because you have a certain legal education and you know the scam is a crime. In general, to charge crimes, you have to have a minimum of proof. I know it's used with a colloquial character. The truth is, I don't think it's a scam that, with 11 billion euros, for example, in the case of Abanca, were bailed out deposits -- they just met each other, and it was like that when the operation was done. We're talking about 59,000 million euros of Greek deposits in that entity. I've said once that the Italian rescuers call them "resalt from the warehouses," and here it seems that the big bank is being rescued, when what was being rescued in the case of the boxes, where there were no owners or multinationals or Voitre funds, and there were no owners, but they were social entities, it's more obvious that nowhere were the deposits. I insist, you have Abanca right now 59,000 million. Well, to say all this, we believe that, in fact, we have to investigate. Congress is already investigating, it's already in the workplan of the corresponding Congress commission. And as I have just said, both the European Commission and the Central Bank, and even the inspectors of the Banco de España, who are associated with the European Central Bank, are talking about closely monitoring the purchase of the People's Bank by Banco Santander. And I say this because it is important not to confuse what the European Union is with what the resolution mechanism is, those who say that there is a need to monitor are members of the European Commission who monitor what those who regulate the banking market and those who apply the intervention mechanisms are doing. And that's why we also share the idea that this is not the area where this should be investigated. It would certainly lead to an important degree of frustration to ask for appearances, to ask for documents, and to pass on to us what has already happened to us in some respects in the Committee on Boxes, on the one hand, or what is already going on in Congress with some committees of inquiry which the opposition in Congress put in motion. And, therefore, the logical thing is to investigate where you're investigating and where you're looking, and not in the Welsh House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u139	Thank you, Mr. Puy. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u140	Well, good day again. Mr. Puy, the truth is, you let me down a little. I confess that whenever you speak in this Parliament you learn very interesting things. But, man, I don't know if you're amending the plan to the Bureau of Parliament, which was the one that admitted it to the procedure, or that. In any case, if the plenary was the one who created the committee, because we think it's nothing crazy that the plenary can extend that commission. In any case, you know that we also register this petition at the committee table, because you have to be very scared. In addition, to speak of this, to speak of the Banco Pastor, we are left with PNL; we are left with PNL to the point that in the same week when the sale was consumed, despite the strict deadlines of this Parliament, we were able to speak of this in Commission 3a, because we already had a record of the concern I had for the BNG and what was seen. Well, maybe at the end of his speech he gave the key: appearances, of course. How crazy there must be appearances! That's what we've said since my organization, we'll ask you again at the committee table, and we'll insist tomorrow. Because, in the light of the concealment of documentation, it would be logical that there should be appearances. Not only should you have them to talk about the Pastor, but also to talk about what we have pending. You also say things have changed. Well, actually the financial and capitalist system itself is smart and chameleonic, and it changed, it changed. What you're looking to see is if those regulators that you've created were to regulate something or regulate it to continue everything without changing, and change everything so as not to change anything. I will comment on some questions, before I continue with this, about the intervention of the spokesman of the Socialist Party. Mr. Losada, I am surprised that you are unwilling, after so many years of parliament, not to accumulate any more frustrations. I don't know if we need a sabotage surplus, because we don't have to have the people of this Parliament's opposition to the back loaded with frustration, because we have accumulated a lot. Anyway, I also thank the spokesman of En Marea for his support, and I regret that the Socialist Party is still installed in that comfortable abstention. I don't think it's going to be good for them to justify each other's positions and that it's time to decant. Before I finished my intervention — which I have only a short time left — I wanted to put a couple of examples of why we are not worth the role of Congress or the role of the state or the role of regulators by self-investigating, and how at the end this chameleonic entrenchment that was changing so, after all, it favored that policy of letting it go and did not regulate what it had to regulate. For example, we can remember that the Court of Auditors' own report concludes that the state rescue of savings banks was done without proper criteria and control for the use of public funds. Or the role of the CNMV, because, of course, the report by the Banco de España is very nice, because on its own role he throws balloons out, but of course, it says that the CNMV is very questionable because it allowed the Spanish State to buy high-risk products from customers without financial knowledge, something which, of course, had a greater impact on the Spanish State than in other states. Why would it be? Anyway, I'm running out of time and I conclude that throwing balloons out for the Spanish state doesn't count on us. We are here in the Greek Parliament, which is sovereign and should be responsible for this issue. Don't want to expand this research object is to be accomplices. And I've already said in my first intervention that, in front of a scam, we're either on the side of the swindles or we're on the side of the swindlers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of the sale of the Banco Popular-Pastor on the Banco Pastor brand, on the existing jobs and on the people and collectives concerned, as well as on the activities of the Barrie de la Maza Foundation in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u142	Amendments have been made to all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u143	Therefore, to formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we actually have an initiative, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which, although not exactly the same, will turn a little back to the previous non-legislative proposal put forward by the BNG Group. Today we are bringing a GNP which we believe should be approved unanimously by all the parliamentary groups in this House, as has happened in the Commission this Friday. We believe it is important that all political groups agree with each other in order to transfer a unanimous message of support to workers, as well as to the small shareholders who have lost all the value of their actions. We also believe it is important to transfer a request message unanimously to the new owner of the buyer bank, Banco Santander, for three purposes: firstly, to keep the mark of Banco Pastor; secondly, to minimize the impact of the change of property; and thirdly, to maintain the activities of the Pedro Barrie de la Maza Foundation, a very important foundation in our community. In this sense, our spokesperson has already addressed the President of Banco Santander by letter to take these concerns into account. In Galicia, the sale of the Banco Popular-Pastor was very bad news, since in Galicia there are 28.9 % of the offices of the entire Banco Popular-Pastor. Bank Pastor was a long-standing bank and roots in our community. His sale to the People's Bank and now to Banco Santander puts a point and an end to the financial fabric of our autonomous community, to a bank that was born in 1776. In 2008, that is, just nine years ago, the Greek financial landscape was made up of two boxes and three banks. With this sale there is a very strong oligopolitical situation, and in Galicia we will have two banks that will have more than two-thirds of the financial market fabric — i.e. 75% of the financial fabric — and this poses a high risk to consumers. The consequences of this People's Bank-Pastor sales process to Banco Santander lead the Socialists to show great concern on four key issues. One is the concern of the employees and employees of these banks; a new adjustment of 1,200 workers from the Pastor Bank in Galicia, who will be victims of deficiencies, regulations, supervision and financial management by the Banco de España, the National Securities Market Commission and the National Competition Commission. We are also concerned about the negative consequences that will have for consumers the growing concentration of the financial system. There will be greater difficulties in accessing credit both families and pemen, and there will be a growing process of financial exclusion in many rural municipalities. We are also concerned by the small shareholders, who will lose all their savings, which is aggravated by the "invitation" — between quotes — that in some cases had the bank's own staff to acquire shares from the bank. We're talking about nearly 51,000 Greek shareholders who lost 72 million euros. It is true that the impossibility of a financial institution must be assumed by its shareholders, which poses a risk to investors, but it cannot be concluded that an action which has a market value passes through a decision by the competent authority on one night worth EUR 0, and that, because it has reached that value, if it proceeds to its amortization, when there is a settlement and the bank continues to operate normally at a few hours. They are also concerned that these small investors — I say some have been invited to acquire shares — are certain that they did not have the information necessary and sufficient to be able to assess the real risk of acquiring these shares, essentially since the last capital extension made in 2016. Our concern is also focused on the Barrie de la Maza Foundation. It is a foundation created in 1966, one of the oldest in the Spanish state and it had — and at the moment — the objective of promoting Galicia's economic and cultural development, focusing its activity on four areas: education, science, social action and heritage and culture. In 2005, this foundation dedicated EUR 8.6 million to these four areas: 1.5 million for social action, 1 million for science, 2.5 million in education and 3.6 million in heritage and culture. She owns more than 40% of the old Banco Pastor, becoming capital of more than 7% of the People's Bank. But, with the last capital expansion in 2016, its assets decreased and decreased below 2% after the purchase by Banco Santander. We are also concerned that the role of regulators and bank supervisors is very much questioned, instilling tremendous mistrust over these control instruments and the financial system in general. We know that there is now a single resolution mechanism, a mechanism created in 2016 by the banking union as an instrument to overcome the financial crisis in the euro area, in order to ensure the orderly resolution of the broken banks with minimum cost for the taxpayers and the real economy, so that their liquidation has the least possible impact and that systemic crises can be prevented. It is true that it is one more step in the construction of the basic regulatory pillars in banking union, and that the objectives are: to strengthen confidence in the banking sector, to avoid banking panic, to reduce the negative relationship between sovereign banks and issuers and to eliminate fragmentation of the internal market of financial services; and, as pointed out in the previous intervention, that it does not have to be the State itself which has to rescue these banks. This mechanism is composed of a European Union-wide resolution body, called the Single Resolution Board, and has a common resolution fund financed by the banking sector. But it is also true that this unique resolution mechanism must be fixed by the so-called "minimum liability requirement", a liability that is subjective, although it is aimed at strengthening the loss absorption capacity of entities. Therefore, its application implies a change in behaviour by the European regulator, but Spain is the first country and this is the first bank to which this new single resolution mechanism applies; and therefore we are a little concerned about what its consequences will really be. In view of this situation, the Socialists bring this non-law proposal for its approval by this plenary session of the Greek Parliament. The terms in which we are going to put this non-law proposal will be identical to those proposed in Commission 3 last Wednesday, where there has already been a transposition between all groups. We therefore believe that it is important, that it is interesting, that a unanimous voice should emerge from here, and that we should give, above all, that unanimous support — as I said earlier — to the workers and the workers, and also a united request to the new owner of the People's Bank-Pastor. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u146	Well, as I had already introduced in my previous speech, we shared with other parliamentary groups the concern about this question of the Popular-Pastor. If one thing had as a positive thing is that, in fact, a priori, all parliamentary groups shared the analysis that it was a negative news for our country. Another question is that we look at the causes or measures that must be taken in the same way. We are concerned and concerned about this matter, and I will briefly talk about some of the consequences — not to repeat too much with the socialist voicer — that we believe they are worrying. I'll try to come up with some nuances. Among the consequences that it has, we are concerned about this panorama of great banking concentration which is increasingly leaving us — both consumers, individual users, and small and medium-sized enterprises — with fewer doors to call. In particular, the Banco Popular-Pastor — as we can almost call it — we know that it had a strong territorial deployment in our country, and that this will have consequences; consequences on financial exclusion, because we all know that oligopolies, lobbies, prices and conditions, and will therefore be more difficult than in terms of security and equality to access people and small businesses to credit. On the other hand, we also have almost an obsession with the relationship between credits and deposits in our country. We've already encrypted many times like that savings from our country emigration in more than 70 euros per 100 out of our country. We understand that, as Santander is an international entity that values its capital in large speculative financial markets, this issue will always increase and, therefore, will increase the policy on our savings. And then that has an important translation to our productive tissue. And on the other hand, on the more labour issue, we understand that the tripplicity of entities, not duality anymore, but tripleity, will negatively affect employment. In addition, two of these three entities have recently faced quite important issues in our ERE country, with which that issue is there. Also because, as far as we know, Santander's collaboration with trade union entities is leaving much to be desired in the field of information and forecasting. We understand that this can affect in a very important way also auxiliary companies, big forgotten ones. At least, only the Popular-Pastor, for matters of service via mobile phone, has, we know, around 300 jobs that could be dangerous, and that could perish, in addition, in a sphere of work that already has very complicated conditions. We're also concerned about everything that came out about the shareholders. We agreed with the nuances that Mr. Losada introduced before, because we are talking, above all, about small savers and people who have been cheated into the conditions. We don't already enter the games that are part of the risk that anyone can incur, but I think we agree with what is at the heart of our concern. In this sense, we want to add a nuance. We know that there are people in this country affected by the preferences, because of that scam that the bank, these banks, paid through the application of bonds or shares, and therefore we could in some case in a triple scam. In view of this situation, we have different claims. And now he was talking about the socialist voicer of a consensus reached in the last 3rd Commission. It is true that in that committee we reached an agreement by all parliamentary groups — the result of a proposal from En Marea — that was rather light, so to speak. It was a good starting point. He announced a series of commitments to work, with the maintenance of the Popular-Pastor brand, which is a basic demand to deepen in that job stay, and so on. And we, even if we don't pick up our maximum demands, vote in favour. But the truth is, since we are talking so much about regulation today, we understand that the role of this plenary is not to refer to the agreements that have already been made in other committees. So we'd like today to be a little more ambitious. We voted favourably, I say; we did it as a gesture of will too, that we are open and open to dialogue, that we are concerned about this issue and that we want to sit down and talk about reaching consensus. But, frankly, we understand that it is time to go ahead and avoid those frustrations, all of them, of what we're talking about in the previous GNP. So — very briefly — our amendments go further in the field of work. We understand that it is important to focus collective bargaining on the Greek field. I am not going to go into the way he sold us to German trade unionism some recent pact of state trade unionism — we could talk, for example, about the metal in Pontevedra or another question. We understand that it is important, if we precisely want to keep the Galician branch to have the decision-making centre here and have another tool to keep these jobs, because logically the scope of negotiation has to circumscribe it above all to Galicia to try to make it more favourable than what comes from the state. We understand that we need to investigate the role of organisms, as we said in the previous intervention. And finally, we demand that steps be taken in the exercise of exclusive competences in consumption. We're bored and bored to hear from the People's Party that there are no powers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u148	...what do you think? Well, in consumption there are. Exercise them, create specific care mechanisms...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u150	...for the people affected and not as was done in the ground clauses, which we've seen the result. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u152	I'll be brief again. I mean, there's a consensus in Commission 3a in a GNP that we proposed and is brought here today. We're going to vote for it. She's very well defended by Begoña and, therefore, we have little to say in particular about that matter. But what the BNG spokesperson said leads me to a reflection in that direction. Of course this is a sad amendment, sad! I mean, we just got rid of the Greek financial system, and what we're proposing is to ask Banco Santander to keep the entity's mark. Of course, it's the wreckage remains, directly. Now, why did we make that proposal? Because we owe it to the workers and workers of the Pastor Bank. There will be dismissals, office closures, financial exclusion, a process of enormous labor and social cost in Galicia. And we have to help workers and workers and their legal representatives; that they choose them, by the way, workers and workers when they vote in union elections, they choose those who want them to represent, who have tools to defend themselves in front of the Santander Bank. And in that sense, even though it's a minimum proposal, we think it's useful for him to defend himself in front of the Pastor's Bank. A little reflection I want to make. Banco Pastor has 242 years of history. He was able to overcome World War I, the 29 crisis, Nazism, World War II, Franco's dictatorship, the opening up of the Spanish economy to the European Union, the financial crisis of the 1980s. He was able to overcome all that, but he was unable to overcome this prodigious decade of neoliberalism, troika, austerity, banking and financial concentration. And a topic about the shareholders that I think is relevant, with two data: 167,000 shareholders from the Banco Popular-Pastor have less than 1,000 shares, which, at the price of the issue in 2015, 1,25 euros, assumes that 167,000 people have an average of 1,250 euros, 2.5 % of the bank's capital. However, 126 shareholders — 167,000/126 — who have more than 800,000 shares, have a 65% share capital of the bank. Of course, the people who are shareholders of old, who deposited their capital at the Pastor Bank 20 years ago, who didn't buy or sell, who didn't speculate, because those people can't do, should not be done, that they paid a crisis caused by these 126 financial speculators—the Del Valle family, the Luksic family the BlackRock funds, etc.—. We propose, of course, that a differentiated treatment should be given to those who are traditional savers, to those who have their savings formatted in that product of action, as regards who is a speculator. We say it, in addition, because I think there's no need to be doubted. The Luksic family, the Chileans, and the Del Valle family will recover their money, because with the capital expansion of 2,500 million euros that have already hired those affected by large American law firms, everyone will be charged. The one you won't charge is that person from Sarria... — he wrote an article José Precedo, a German journalist, who counted the thousand euros his mother had from the People's Bank. Well, those aren't gonna charge, and those touch us defend them. Luksic and Del Valle are going to defend us from the big U.S. law firms, but those are the ones we have to defend. And I think that marks the idea of this proposal. We're going to vote in favour, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u153	Thank you, Mr. Lago. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u154	Let me say, before we begin on the issue, that there is a permanent issue in the debate that has been said several times, that it is the banking concentration for the purposes of the financial oligopolie that is being created in some markets. There is a House agreement precisely to ask the Board to examine whether there are any changes in competition in Galicia as a result of this banking concentration. But precisely, at the same time as we denounce this, it must be acknowledged that there is a financial entity that is the Bank! Because we often forget, when we talk about the financial sector already being broken down, which, with the efforts of many, some more than others, fortunately there is a financial entity based in Galicia that continues to lend credit in Galicia and working in Galicia. [[Applause]] The objective, of course, that we have in this debate is to maintain and transmit the idea of unity based on four or five objectives, on which it was also possible to reach an agreement last Friday, right? Well, the first is to express solidarity with the workers, both the bank and the foundation, and with the auxiliary companies that worked for the Pastor Bank and the People's Bank, and with the hundreds of customers and small shareholders, many of them traditional, the Pastor Bank. Secondly, we share a goal, which is to ensure that the credit in Galicia is not affected, especially that of pemes — which is where the Banco Popular and Banco Pastor worked — and neither employment. And, in any case, if there has to be some need — that there is a structural reform of employment in the bank, as we all know — if there has to be some adjustment, that is always done according to the workers' representatives. Thirdly, make up for the losses of small shareholders. The Bank of Santander seems to have already suggested that there can be a solution in this direction, and we agree. Fourthly, let's keep our commitments to Barrie. Here you have to specify, because it is sometimes confused. But the fact is that the Banco Pastor or Banco Popular didn't have a foundation, it was the other way around, it was the foundation he was a shareholder, first of the Banco Pastor and then of the Banco Popular. True, he lost part of his estate as an shareholder. It's true that that could mean you have less income. It's also true that the People's Bank has not been sharing dividends for some time and that the foundation itself has partially diversified its income. But it's also the fact that some of the renters continue to depend on agreements between what the Pastor Bank was and the foundation with the People's Bank. And finally, we share — as we said earlier — that we have to investigate exactly what happened with these capital enlargements and the disappearance of the People's Bank. In short, it is also obvious from the interventions we have heard — let me do this to myself — that is the second time we have liquidated the Greek financial system. The first was when the People's Bank acquired the Banco Pastor; that's when we talked about it. And now we set an example of the agreement reached with the People's Bank, which kept the mark, which kept the headquarters and that was it, we have to say, intervention and political work on the part of the board and a good predisposition by the then president of the People's Bank, who was, by the way, born in Santiago de Compostela, and who had a sensibility that would have the new owner, who is not born in Santiago, but is born in Santander, as we all know. But, in short, I hope we achieve these goals. I believe that a unanimous agreement would reinforce this position of Galicia. We agree to arbitrate or negotiate a consensus based on Friday and, if not, of course, we would support the PNL presented to us by the Socialist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u155	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. First, thank the three political groups for supporting this non-law proposal. I believe that, fundamentally, in the political action that lies before us in this Greek Parliament, in matters where we do not really have competence, our duty is, as politicians in this country, both to unite us on certain issues and to express our strong support for the disadvantaged people, as to unite us to make this request to the owner, in this case of Banco Santander, to take account of our concerns and some of the problems that concern us, and that they are able to solve — as all political groups have pointed out — the situation of workers and workers, both directly and indirectly, of Banco Santander; the small shareholders, the loss of entities in the rural world, the prejudice that it means to customers that a lower offer also diminishes the possibilities of negotiation for them and for pemists and customers who may encounter greater difficulties in access to credits. So, if we all have it clear, and we all express our support for the disadvantaged and our request to the bank for all this to be taken into account, I think it is important that this be expressed in all the media and these entities. So the text that we would adopt would be like this: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to: First of all. Demonstrate their solidarity with all the people who work at the Pastor Bank, in their foundation and in the numerous auxiliary companies, with the affected persons, with the clientele and with their shareholders, showing the strong conviction of the camera to defend before the Santander Bank that the Pastor Bank has the legal status of an integrated subsidiary within the banking group, as it was currently in the Popular-Pastor Group. Point number 2. To ensure that the change in ownership in the Pastor Bank has to Galicia the least possible impact on the granting of credit and employment and, if so, the adjustments are made with as much agreement as possible and defending the interests of workers in the wake of the competences of the Galician Union. The third point. To request from Banco Santander the compensation for the losses suffered by the small shareholders of Banco Pastor, with special consideration for those who have reached the last capital expansion, so that they can recover their investment. Point number 4. To request that the new owner, Banco Santander, maintain the commitments made by the Banco Popular with the Barrie Foundation so that he can continue to develop his social and cultural work with sufficient resources. And finally, point number five. To request the banking and market supervisory bodies to investigate the latest capital and equity enlargements in order to determine whether the subscribers had clear, nested and needed information in order to carry out their investments." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made to the Central Government in connection with proposals for legalization and normalization of the practice of renting or subsidized management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u158	This proposal was tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u159	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u160	Good afternoon to all and to all. Since BNG today, we have brought up the debate on an important issue, such as that of the rental bellies. We know that at this time in the Spanish State this practice is forbidden, but I believe that none of the people we are here escapes from the fact that this is an open debate, in which we think that we cannot take a profile, in which we all have to stand, because the Greek society has the right to know that we think about this issue its representatives in the Parliament of Galicia. If you've read the proposition, you've already seen that the option BNG is not "Don't know, don't answer." In the Galego Nationalist Block we have very clear that we have to stand in a clear and round manner, and that is why we propose that this plenary today Parliament opposes the legalization, regulation and trivialization of the practice of renting bellies, because it constitutes a form of exploitation and commercialization of the body of women, especially those most impoverished and vulnerable. In this sense, the relevant legal changes will be geared towards deterring and preventing the practice of belly rental. And we believe that it is also appropriate, since this issue is going to be discussed in Congress, that we demand the Government of the State that the legal changes made in this area are directed at prohibiting the renting of the belly; that they are based on deterrence, non-legalization and regulation and, of course, on the non-banalization of what this practice entails. So this is a timely time for debate: there's a popular legislative initiative that hides important economic interests, those of clinics that are already doing business with inequality, and also of many lawyers' offices that have seen there a very important business niche. But there are also other initiatives already registered in Congress, such as that of Citizens, which clearly, through the back door and with a falsified debate, wants to open the legitimation of renting bellows. Since BNG we have made it clear that this is a debate that has its complexity, which affects areas that have to do with culture, with society; there is an ethical debate, there is a legal debate; but above all these issues, for us, it is a debate that deeply, clearly, has to do with the most basic rights of dignity that women have to have. I know there's an attempt on the part of some groups to simply reduce this to a medical debate or a debate that has to do with an assisted reproduction technique; but this is to fake what we're talking about, and that's why we think we have to call things by name. BNG talks about renting bellies because we know that behind language there is ideology and therefore we reject many of the euphemisms that are being used right now: euphemisms, as a surrogate motherhood, that what they want us to hide is precisely the transcendental fact that is behind this practice, that women will be rented so that others can perpetuate themselves genetically. And for us this is a practice of mercantilization, of objectualization, of cossification of women's bodies, which, of course, cannot have any support. [[Applause]] Whoever defends the surrogate motherhood wants to turn women's reproductive capacity into a business: to legitimize, at the bottom, the purchase and sale of babies. For the BNG, renting a woman's womb is not an act of freedom, it's not an act of altruism and it's not a right. Who are defending the bellows of rent only sheltered freedom from those who have more money at the expense of women who have a situation of greater vulnerability, and at the cost of trampling the rights of dignity and who must be above, as I say, of situations of inequality. So what we're debating is whether it seems legitimate to us, whether we think it is democratically mercanizing women's bodies and doing it, in addition, in a context where we know, and the experiences are there, that there are important pockets of inequality and poverty; that the ones that most affect poverty in the world are women; that, ultimately, wealthy people here want to go to countries that have less opportunity to rent women's wombs and that they are simply committing a rundown in a situation of inequality. I also know that there may be many people who have no children; that they cannot have children biologically and that they can clearly believe in good faith that this may be an alternative. I understand that situation, but I don't think private cases can be those that determine a legal framework in which we have to safeguard the rights of all people beyond individual problems. But precisely this debate puts the emphasis on other sides or on other seals that we must debate. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if you think it's a right to be a mother or a father, because this is part of the falsification that is also given in this debate: there is no right to be a father or mother; there is freedom to decide whether at a given time one or one wants to use that possibility, but there is no right to have biological offspring, and therefore one cannot overpower the particular interest of a person to have a genetic burden to safeguard the common good and the right to equality and dignity of women. It must be remembered that, for people who can't or don't want to have children biologically, there are other alternatives, such as adoption, where we clearly believe that all procedures must be accelerated, because there we are saving a higher good as is the right of children to have a home and to live in a place where they really have a dignified and full life, and we believe that in that area adoption must reach the entire diversity of families that exist in our society. And finally, there is another layer in this debate of what we did not want to flee, which we introduced at the beginning, but on which I would like to deepen a little more, which is the debate on subrogated altruistic motherhood: this new deception or the modality with which they want to introduce the debate in the Spanish State. We have very clear that this way of presenting the debate is no longer an envelopment—almost I would say—humanist, to try to legitimize a social practice that we say is reactionary and that goes against women's rights; that what is really intended is to legitimize women's womb. The best way of looking at the aspect or scope of whether or not that altruism exists can be seen where this practice has already been regulated: we can take the example of the United Kingdom, where, in the end, the vast majority of couples who chose by the renting bellies ended up going to India in order to meet that need, because there was no such practice of self-employed renting bellies. And you realize, ladies and gentlemen, that India, a country that has at its time opened up the possibility of international adoption through rent bellows, has just closed down that possibility for the terrible consequences: for the trafficking of children and the exploitation of the women who, at the bottom of it, were producing behind that practice. To see what's happening, the inequalities, the suffering that it's created and to analyze what's happened also seems to me to be important, really, so that today we have a position that is consistent with a good that is superior to us, which is to defend women's dignity and rights. Behind the debate of the renting bellies, what is hidden are economic interests, a neoliberal and patriarchal ideology, which, in this case, goes hand in hand, which wants to exploit the bodies of women and which, clearly, the only thing that matters is the price. In fact, you will see that in most countries where this practice has been regulated, what you want to guarantee is precisely the rights of those who are renting — and buying at the bottom — a child or a child. You see what are the conditions that many of the women have to submit to, in any circumstances, have to be seen in this practice. These contracts that are made regulate all the details of the woman's life: that she may or may not be able to eat, that cosmetics can either use or, or not, have sexual activity during this pregnancy. They may, even impose on you, have to make a cesarean section so that the child does not suffer from stress in childbirth or — if you do — even assume the obligation that the pregnant woman has to abort in case that child or that child has physical or psychic malformations. You go to the hemerothecs and there you'll see how the cases that have taken place are really dramatic. In the United States, a management woman had to flee because the contracting party wanted to have her abortion for $10,000 because the child — the child — had a malformation. So — I have spent time, simply saying that we would like this Parliament to take a step forward today in defending the dignity of women, in defending, also, the protection of minors and against a practice like renting bellies, that the only thing that hides are patriarchal and neoliberal interests, because we really do not believe that this exploitation can be regulated, or that this is a way. There are other farms in the world that would never happen to us regularly, right? Trafficking in human beings would never occur to us, even though it exists. Therefore, the fact that this practice exists can never be, ever! justification for wanting to pull us out of the back door a clear attack on women's rights and dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, welcome to the non-banalization of abortion. We are debating today a non-law proposition by the Nationalist Block of Wales on a simple position such as the subordinated management, but in no case are we in the background debate on whether or not we agree with the subordinated management, since it is a matter of sufficient legal, social, ethical and moral entities to vent in a debate of only twenty-eight minutes. [[Applause]] A few months ago, at the Stremadura Assembly, a debate was held on the need for regulation of the subordinated management, and the Socialist Party presented an amendment in favour of establishing a commission of study, with the aim of opening a space for debate and reflection on the rights of women managers, minors, paternity and maternity, since the lack of clear regulation generates contradictory decisions of judges, irregularities, illegalities, as well as social, ethical and moral conflicts. And the Group of Powers in Extremes coincided with the amendment of the Socialist Party, and recriminalized the Group of Citizens not to accept this amendment, because we could also consider that there was a deep social debate. Ladies and gentlemen, in the People's Parliamentary Group we also agree with this need, and it does not seem enough to have just five minutes for a serene and quiet debate on a subject where there are very much-found positions within society and a dispersed and contradictory legislation, so I will only stick to the proposed proposal: it opposes any kind of regulation surrounding the subordinated management. The People's Group fully shares the assumption of non-banalization, for no doubt the debate cannot be simplified. We need a serious, serene and prudent debate. As a preliminary question, I would also like to say that in the People's Party, and in the Parliamentary Group, we agree with the European Parliament and the Committee on National Bioethics to prohibit all those practices which involve the exploitation of women in this process, but also the purchase of children and children. We consider it necessary to defend the best interests of the child because, ladies and gentlemen, in his proposal he makes no reference to the minor born fruits of this practice, nor do they even mention them in the explanatory statement, nor did Mrs. Pontón even make any reference in her exposition. There are countries where the superseded management has been allowed for 30 years. In Canada, for example, in an altruistic manner, as a solidarity practice which in certain medical fields equates to the solidarity of organ prayer. In other countries, as in the case of the United States, economic compensation is allowed. And in others it is absolutely forbidden, as is the case with Spain. We can't look to the other side and figure out a reality as it is that in Spain it is forbidden, but, despite that, there are people who come to these countries where it is permitted and bring fruit children from a surrogate management. So, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is, what do we do with these minors when they get to Spain? The Supreme Court in February 2014 dismisses the recognition of membership and denies the possibility of registration in the civil register and, in addition, raises the drawback of these minors once they arrive in Spain. And what does the Supreme Court do, because it says it won't send them to an orphanage, nor will it return them to the country of origin — the United States — and it gives a solution: the only form of regulation is family reception or adoption. But in this same sense, the Spanish Bioethics Committee — in its report last May — also says that this solution does not apply to all cases, as you well know — I cannot explain in five minutes but I know that you are very informed about this subject. And the current legislation, says the Bioethics Committee, which also establishes double discrimination, economics and gender. Why? Because Social Security, for example, recognises the right to economic benefit by fatherhood — the low per fatherhood is recognised in Social Security — but is not recognized for maternity leave and, however, the Supreme Court in Chamber 4a — in November 2016 — in a judgement to a parentage, which brings a child by undernourishment in another country, acknowledges him the right to maternity benefit, on the basis of the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot agree with you on the proposal of absolutely no regulation. We think that these defects, of the minors who are living in Spain, must be corrected, and that discrimination, economic and gender, too. In the European context which guarantees human rights, as well as the freedom of movement of persons within the Schengen field, it would be reasonable for this regulatory security to extend to the whole range of countries which form part of that area of freedom, which is the European Union, and in which, at present, there is a legislative diversity that goes from the very great allowability to ban or to a legal indefinition. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an issue that transcends the powers of the Autonomous Community and also of the General Courts. We tabled an amendment to urge the European Parliament to undertake a study and analysis of the current situation of different Member States' legislation in order to carry out legislative harmonisation in this area within the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be a serious, serene and responsible debate, and if you study the implications for human rights, not only for women but also for minors, in order to avoid reproductive tourism, and what is not given in a country can be given to the side. Legislative harmonisation is therefore necessary in this area within the European Union, irrespective of the decision taken at the International Court of The Hague in the coming year 2018. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u164	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all, and especially to the people who accompany us today — from various feminist associations — whom I want to thank — what they are and what they are not — the work of debate and analysis on the regulation of renting bellies. An effort that is collected in documents such as what we were brought to all parliamentary groups yesterday from the associations AGASEX, Fademur, Regai, Lilith's Dream, Teens for Equality, as well as independent professionals. You welcome all and thank you, really, for your work and contributions. I want to begin my intervention by stressing that, as already said here, this issue is of great social sensitivity. There are many opinions, not only in society but also in the hearts of the political parties themselves, and for this very reason, I think it must be faced, today by us, with all the clarity possible, but, first, at the personal level and as a spokesman for the Socialist Group, I want to transfer my most absolute desire to the wish—of all those men and women with intent to be parents or mothers, and the respect and affection and request for protection for all those children who have already been born as a result of this practice. Let no one, not one, be marked by this desire. [[Applause]] But what we are considering today has nothing to do with that desire — which is totally lawful — but in the form of conquest. For all this, and because we believe that certain practices cannot be given hope, we speak without rounds. The Socialist Party stands against the legalization of renting bellies and does so from the position it has always maintained as a guarantor of freedoms, equality and rights. That is why, on this subject, we remain in this position and with firm opposition, because we believe that we cannot support any kind of practice that favors the mercentilization of women and, less importantly, that points to the feminization of poverty. And about this last thing, we don't assume, we're not talking about a assumption, it's a fact that poverty has a female gender. The wage gap between men and women, the majority responsibility of women in the care of their children — as well as their elders — constantly speaks to us about this imbalance. It's the women who constantly sacrifice their own well-being, their economic stability, and they do it here, in Spain, we don't have to go to faraway countries to see this fact. The use of renting bellies, and the world of commodityization that lies behind these processes, does not place women in a better place and, much less, in a country where equality is found to be still a social conquest that will take a long time. Let's make it clear: a woman can never be understood as a good merchant. We socialists have made it clear that the cossification of a woman would separate us from our historical defense of freedoms and rights for which we have fought so much. Their legalization would again focus on women who are most vulnerable and in poverty, inducing them to lend themselves to gesture because of need. Because that idyllic image of a managerial, altruistic woman who does it without looking for economic counterbalance is quite scarce. We're not going to say it's non-existent, but it's quite rare. A woman who offers her womb as a rent becomes subject to a process of physical, emotional and psychological risk. Statistically, he's doing it out of necessity, because he finds in that box a chance to survive. As we believe that laws, regulations, must protect the rights of the weak, we don't want for others what we don't want for ourselves. We therefore oppose the regulation of the so-called altruistic subordinated motherhood because, as pointed out by the Committee on Bioethics of Spain, the current experience tells us that the altruistic management is accompanied by the trade, either because it ends up accepting in the country itself where the altruist was accepted, or because those who cannot meet their wishes in their country — through the management of altruist — will tend to serve commercial management abroad. And we take good care to call it things by name, it's important not to make use of euphemisms that do nothing but confuse and make the messages. The experience of motherhood is not surrogate, nor is it done with death. So let's talk clearly about rental bellies, it sounds worse but it's what it is. And when we talk about the desire for fatherhood or motherhood, we don't talk about it as a right, it's not. It's a necessity, but what can't be anticipated or violate women's rights and physical integrity. We women are whole, complete beings, and we cannot ignore this matter by dissecting our body, mercenizing with it — with parts of it — according to the wishes and social needs of the moment. The message that we transmit today — indeed, with all honesty and affection, the families or people who cannot manage biologically — is that genetic binding does not make anyone more father or mother. That's why we believe, that it is necessary to strengthen and improve the processes of national and international adoption so that, above all, the right of children to satisfy their emotional emotional emotional emotional emotional needs, to do so within a stable family unit, to find these people an opportunity to conquer it. And that, on the other hand, that need for many people to be parents and mothers can be covered. We therefore take note of this statement by the European Parliament of 2011 in which Member States were asked to recognise the serious problem of subrogation, which they said, "an exploitation of the female body and of its reproductive organs" and oppose a practice which was a reversal in the struggle for women's equality, as well as their rights. We worry about Spain, which is what it takes and corresponds, and we don't take the ball to other homes, waiting for others and others to decide for us. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u166	Thank you, President. Before I started, I also wanted to greet and welcome the companions of some feminist groups who accompany us here today. When we face this debate for ourselves, we must make two preliminary considerations. The first is, of course, that we are facing a complex debate. Of course, in five minutes it doesn't take time to approach it in all its depth, but it does give us time to make clear the position of the different parliamentary groups and the real interests that each one defends. The second point that we must make clear is that we must be aware of who put this debate on the political and media agenda, because it has been put on the table solely by a minority sector of the population and by a number of intermediate companies with a clear objective of profit. It was these companies — those that are doing a lot of business already with renting bellies in other countries — that are pressing for this opportunity to be opened up also in the Spanish State. And it wasn't just these companies; there was a political organization, Citizens; but it wasn't just Citizens that put it on the table, but certain sectors of some organizations, for example the People's Party, helped and favored this debate here. In fact, we find it quite incongruent — if, quite incongruent — because today they appeal to caution, they appeal to reflection, and it was President Feijó himself who launched this debate. If he wanted to regulate this practice and he wanted to discuss it at his last congress, we don't understand why, months later, he's trying to keep himself completely profiled. In fact, your January statements helped us to put this debate in place, because I assure you that in our agenda this debate was not on the agenda of the feminist movement, neither was this debate and statements like these were the ones that just trivialized the process... [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mrs. Prado, you've already had the use of the word and, if you'll excuse me, it's me now. But it was President Feijóo's statements — yes — that helped citizens to see a fundamental alliance in the People's Party to open the door to commercialization of reproduction, although now they want to become uninhibited and even now they want to deny it. Precaution and responsibility I would tell them to ask the party partner, the President Feijóo, because the truth is that they are using a rather bad excuse in this debate, a speech and an amendment that is genuinely — I believe — for cynicism, because of course we have to talk about the European Union framework, of course it's good to talk about the European Union framework... Please let me respect myself while I'm speaking because I don't open my mouth and time is still running. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u167	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u168	Man, so much respect isn't. Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u169	Quiet. Quiet, Mr. Puy. We shall end this debate. Quiet. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u170	As he said, of course, we will be in the hands of the European Union to work and go on the line that, regardless of where she lives, no woman sees her rights violated. In fact, there are already resolutions of the European Parliament that advocate banning this practice. But that doesn't mean that we have to interfere with the debate within the framework of the Spanish State. And, as I said — and I repeat it again — it is ridiculous to me that they constantly appeal to that, that it is a deep debate, that it is a very... debate, that we need time, when in January President Feijóo made statements like what he did, and that they are in the sight of all, we must only enter the hemerotheque, seek and already...—now I say it, calm; do not worry that I now say one of the issues he said—and especially when we have a bill at the Congress of Deputies that obviously we will have to take part, and the Greek Parliament will have a lot to say about it. So, one thing too. You said the opposition wasn't talking about the minors. We're worried, we're worried about some minors, too, but we're also worried about the managers, and you've forgotten about them in this debate because you haven't talked about them. Actually, I hope it's not strict with time, because in all this intervention it was noticed that you didn't like this subject. They're not letting me talk. So I'd ask them a little respect, really. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is this, really, normal? Yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u171	Let's see, quiet, please. Let us all quietly end this debate. No, silence for everyone, for everyone! I know the interruptions on both sides in the House are frequent, but today I ask you not to interrupt. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's finish the debate. Go ahead, please. And over time don't worry, Mrs. Quinteiro, that I know how to compensate for the times.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u172	Okay, I hope so. I'm going to tell you right now the statements that have been particularly hilarious to me, which is to mix the debate of the rental bellies with the demographic problem. It is a pity that Mr Feijóo is not here today because I would ask him what he was referring to when he was talking about the problem of aging that we have, which is the biggest structural problem in the country, to debate about renting bellies, does not seem any less to him. I really don't understand that it has to do with each other. Then I'd like you to be here. It is a shame that in important debates they are always absent. For us it is clear that behind this practice, behind the bellies of rent, there is no real freedom of choice; we could talk about it if there was equal income between men and women, if there was equal working conditions and rights between all people and if there were no hierarchys and situations of submission. But since we don't have the same opportunities or the same ability to choose, for us to talk about freedom of choice in this context is a fallacy, because actually what is being put on the table with this debate is the freedom of those who can afford to acquire the goods of consumption they want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u173	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u174	All right, I'm done. Please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u175	Look at your time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u176	I look at my time, but I've had two minutes of constant interruption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u177	No, no, sorry. Sorry, I'm seeing the clock, and she also sees it: one minute and twelve seconds above time. I think... End, Mrs. Quinteiro, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u178	Well, look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u179	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u180	I'm gonna finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u181	No, no, stop it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u182	From In Marea, after reflection throughout the country, we have had time to debate deeply, the People's Party also had to debate deeply this time, we completely oppose the bellows of rent and we will always be defending women's rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u184	...and that's why we're going to vote in favour of this initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u186	If they don't vote in favour of this initiative, they're not profiling, they're playing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank both the representative of the Socialist Group and the representative of the En Marea Group not only for talking about the debate in which we are here, but also for that support, which I understand is the support for a regulatory system of the rental bellies that really saves something that is fundamental to us, which is the dignity and the rights of women. We don't turn women's bodies into incubator machines, because that's really not a step forward, that's a step back that takes us to the Middle Ages. I think someone said at some point that we couldn't think of reproduction from the point of view of the canons of the 19th century, but of the 21st century. Turning women into incubators is not a step forward, it's a step forward for centuries, with which we, of course, are not going to collaborate. With regard to the intervention made by the representative of the People's Group, I also regret that we have little time for this debate. It was a pity you hadn't proposed it before because we could ask the President of Parliament that, given the transcendence of this debate, the times were different. He didn't make any proposals. I am absolutely convinced that if I had done so, there would be generosity on the part of the Presidency. You too come here alone and exclusively to disqualify the proposals and the debates we have brought from the opposition, and I don't know why they are angry or upset because we discussed this in Parliament in Galicia. They're absolutely angry! You bring your proposals and we will debate them without any kind of problem, with all tranquility, because we think we're talking about something important. Your amendment, I'm going to tell you it's inescapable by many questions. First, because it prevents Parliament from having an opinion on surrogate maternity. The Galician Parliament cannot have any opinion. We are not up to this debate because you think this has to be decided by the European Parliament. Based on what, in the opinion of the clinics that are promoting surrogate maternity, lawyers' offices...? On the basis of what you have to say to the European Parliament? With the same legitimacy that the European Parliament has to feel, the Galician Parliament should think, because this is something that affects us all and everyone, which affects us as a society. I'll read back what we're going to vote for because I think it's important that you know. Today we propose that: "1. This Parliament urges the Union to oppose the legalization, regulation and banalization of the practices of the renting quarters by constituting a form of exploitation and commercialization of the women's bodies, especially those most impoverished and vulnerable. In this sense, the relevant legal changes will be geared towards deterring and preventing the practice of renting bellies. 2. To ask the Government of the State that legal changes around the practice of renting bellies are based on deterrence, non-legalization, regulation and banalization of renting bellies." You have to decide whether you're in favour of this or whether you're against it. And I am deeply sorry that in order not to enter the debate you are trying to accommodate in pain and problems that may have many families who, at last, because of the situation that had been — that I do not judge, even if I do not defend it — have ended up resorting to a practice that I believe is not legitimate in a democratic state. I believe so, but you hid behind the pain and the problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u190	...that there is in relation to this not to be positioned on a subject that is a matter that affects us all and all, but above all, it affects what...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u192	...papers have to have women inside society, and if they really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u194	...participation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u196	...that those people with the most resources can rent women's bodies with less resources to satisfy the desire to perpetuate themselves genetically, because that's what we're talking about today. People...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is over now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u198	I'm done. Mr President, since this is such an important debate, please, I would ask you not to cut me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u199	Yeah, but look at the weather. Look at the time, please, one minute and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u200	Of course, since it's such an important debate... I think we actually live in a society in which we can't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u201	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u202	...before our interests or the interests of a class can exploit women who are often in a vulnerable position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. We proceed to vote on non-law proposals. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u204	Close the doors, please. We begin by voting the Non-Legal Proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Quiroda Díaz and Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco. I was pending a transaction... If I do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u205	Yes. We accept two of the amendments, number 3 and number 4 of the BNG, which we'll get them later to the Bureau, and the rest of the groups already have them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u206	Thank you. We therefore vote for that agreement. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Quiroga Díaz and Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the central government in relation to the control and follow-up of the forest fires in Galicia, as well as the agileization of the trials for that cause. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u207	We now vote on the proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mrs Maria Guadalupe Murillo Solis. There's a transaction proposal. It's long and I'll try to sum it up. Let's see if I can sum up briefly. He's got four points. The first point is to go to the Government of Spain — and it has been synthesizing — for the reform of the Criminal Code, in particular to recover the figure of recklessness and to review the figure of the concept of recklessness; to address the state's security forces and bodies in some way to intensify control in those areas where there is a greater concentration of cyclists. The third point: go to the road administrations to encourage signaling or strategic points that remember the presence of cyclists. And finally, fourth point: go to all administrations to carry out campaigns on the great advantages of bicycle use and responsible and safe conduct in this matter. We therefore vote for this transaction. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's G.P. of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Guadalupe Murillo Solís and fourteen other Members, on the demand to the Government of Spain for the promotion and establishment of measures that contribute to ensuring the road safety of cyclists. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u208	We are now voting on the following non-legislation proposal from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea. The amendment was accepted as an addition to the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote of the compromised text of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the action to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the night and holiday supplements that are charging the professionals of the continuing attention points. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u209	We are now voting on the following non-legislation proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group. The amendments were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. On the initiative of Mr José González Vázquez and 13 other Members of Parliament, on the action to be taken in Galicia in connection with the amendment of the consolidated text of the Law on Local Farms concerning taxes on value increases in urban land, as well as those intended to require the Greek municipalities to authorize the mechanisms to speed up the procedures necessary to return the amounts collected to the taxpayers concerned. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 52; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u210	We are now voting on the following non-legislation proposal from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the expansion of the powers of the Committee on Boxes to investigate the fall of the Pastor Bank. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 39; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u211	We are now voting on the following non-legislation proposal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We have already read by the proponent a text which is the product of a transaction, and we therefore voted. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of the sale of the Banco Popular-Pastor on the Banco Pastor brand, on existing jobs and on the people and collectives concerned, as well as on the activities of the Barrie de la Maza Foundation in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u212	Finally, we are voting on the following non-legislation proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block in Galicia. The amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made to the Central Government in relation to proposals for legalization and normalization of the practice of renting or subsidized management. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u213	The votes were finished. Open the doors, please. We move on to the fifth item on the agenda, interpelerations. Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, from G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in the field of rural education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u214	To formulate the interpellation has the floor to Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u215	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor, Mr. Román. This explanation, of course, must be a continuation of yesterday's intense debate, a debate that was a mix of fiction and reality, as I do. I will deal with seven points, taking into account very much the opinions and statements that you have made and also fellow Members of Parliament. He began by saying, "The best judgment is time," you said. Then he also talked about noises, he talked about the communication scheme, Cartesian maps and Soviet maps. He didn't really talk about models of rural education. I mean, I'm going to talk about eises and things they talked about. There's been no talk of concertation. If there was a lot of real disguise. And I'm going to end up talking really to question many of the arguments you've fought. With regard to a centre of what the President of this House and the Government of Greece said today, saying that there was only one separation from a fence, so we titled the last part of my journey: "the valley", "the valley of Ribadavia". It refers to a school that knows very well the honourable Member of Ribadavia, since, as he told us yesterday, his niece studies there—and you also studied. It is a powerful and wonderful example to talk about rural education. And as you began by saying that the best judge was the time and that everything solved, I said, here we are in an Alice tunnel in Wonderland, or we are talking about Carapuccina, because in such a case the wolves would be the opposition, since you talked about ferocity, addressed to us. I didn't fit as Pinocchio's character, either, something yes, but not at all. Nor perhaps the Cat with Boots — like there's a girl up there — will understand me very well. But stories also help adults and adults. I know all the stories, Leon Felipe said, and he says a poem, which has to do with history, which has to do with this tunnel of time: "How bad if this path were of many leagues / and always repeated / the same people, the same sales, / the same cattle, the same quarters! / What a shame if this life had / — this life of ours — a thousand years of existence! - Who would make it till the end of the leaven? - Who would bear it all without protest? / Who reads ten centuries of history and does not close it when seeing the same things always on a different date? / The same people, the same wars, the same tyrants, the same chains, the same phrasing ones, the same sects/!and the same poets! - What a shame, so be it all the time, always the same way!" How sorry, Counselor, that you do not change, that you do not repent — since you recommend us, if we do not commit any sin! — a little of the wrong things! You were talked about yesterday too. I'm very sorry, I don't care if you're superb, if you're humble, if your friends wish you loved and respected him very much. I wish that respect belonged to a camera like this one spreads. I hope that there will be no further disrespect and attack on equality by calling two fellow Members "girls", that is, competent but girls. [[Applause]] That's not equality. Because age, Mr Carlos — I'm sorry, I don't want to mistake the name — is a construct and they deserve the same respect as me. They are masters, in spite of an excellent level of argumentation, in spite of a very well argued defense of the rural environment. And the qualifications that also came out of the third row of the bench advising companion Luca Chao to return to school are outrageous, absolutely outrageous, totally. I have to say that. [[Applause]] I'm sorry, Mrs. Encarna, I've never heard her, only a moment ago, and you read well, but the two honourable Members who expressed their arguments with that political size yesterday were at the level or above the level of the counselor himself, from my humble point of view. I don't stop there anymore because I want to go to the center of the matter. You said you had a teaching vocation. I love it. And he talked about something that is rarely said: of affectivity, but then it wasn't consistent with that speech. You are a teacher and teacher and did not make a single mention of the professor affected with this euphemistic called remodeling, suppression, transfer — as they want to call you — with this outcome and this disincentive. Then he also told us about the surprise that this reaction caused him. This reaction is logical. If there's noise in communication, if there's a lack of hearing. You took out here a document, a schematic, a schematic of what?, of dialogue?, from when?, if there was no such dialogue, if everything is done behind the educational community. There's abuse of the educational community, there's no dialogue, it's done by decree on the day the classes end. It's an argument, which we already knew by La Voz de Galicia, who says, "it's that we can't, poor children, stress them." This one comes to my head more Plato and less Prozac, but that's another subject. And, of course, what you don't take into account is like the whole organization of a center, which is a dynamic living being, and how it's changing its life and treating rural people very badly. Of course we're talking about two models: the model that you have, an economic model -- in terms of profitability they speak -- and a model of justice, a model of law. And they have as much rights as the students in the rural area of Lugo -- we talk to the associations of parents and mothers -- as to the students in the metropolitan area of the Coruña. And besides, the clear pedagogical innovation that goes through giving you the territorial dimension, and you're an expert, of course you're a social capital generator, of course it's the school of the rural host of identities and emotions, of course it's an active member of the territorial institution, of course it retains the collective, of course it's in the collective imaginary. Destroying the countryside, we lose stability, we lose population, we attack our identities, nothing less. So I'd recommend you talk and read something. There are many studies -- I'm a teacher, too, in addition to a theater -- that talk about the benefits of multigrade classes. As I have little time, I'm going to go to grade, and I'm going to talk about a model, a model that should be awarded, a model of excellent work equipment, of first-order human equipment. So, I'm going to blow up your arguments. It says: it gives more opportunities, it gives more creative options, it benefits, it increases quality, it talks a lot about PISA. All right. CPI Student Plurilingual Tomas de Lemos, who knows very well Mr. Cesar Fernández Gil. There's a wound, a punishment directed to this center. In 2016-2017 there were 178 students enrolled. Opticity, your flag. You made a very empty, poor speech, from my point of view—sorry. You're the advisor, you have a lot of responsibility. I should have been an absolute pride. It's very nice, very interesting, very fascinating, to be a counselor of something that sows future and that is in the very foundations of our social and vital being: to generate future and to create citizenship. Protect, promote. So what was the optativity in this center? Logic and chess; it's not bad, right? Scientific research techniques; it's not wrong either. Audiovisual communication. I ask you, are you going to have this option in the center that's in a little passage, that there's a separation fence? We don't know. Projects to the next courses, that is, the professor of that center, human group, that I know three and put my hand on the fire, one of them I have known since he was 7 years old — would, Mr. Caesar — that engaged people, who are leaving the skin, to the next courses I would not say well, because I am French—mindfulness — I am not saying well, but you know what I mean — and develop working groups related to this new technique, in which both the primary and ESO professor participated, and that he had their practical application in classes, both primary and secondary. And that symbiosis is very good. Multilingual education. Your multilingual defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u216	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u217	For the next course, we were going to start teaching physical education in English, and it's already multilingual. Backends. They already had Abalar, they already had digital boards.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u218	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u219	Well, results: external evaluation of several courses above the Galician average and above the European average. Impact of how it was done: from the back...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u221	...to the community, from behind to the teacher, from behind to the parents...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u222	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u223	...in a way that you... To finish, please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u224	Look at the clock, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u225	...the question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u226	No, but look at the clock, please. I was throwing myself here until tomorrow, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u227	Yeah, yeah, okay. Just one question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u228	If I have no problem, but a rule must be maintained.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u229	Just one question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u230	Please, look... then ask the question, please, and finish, because I have no problem, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u231	Tell me: What is your plan for rural life and how does this school benefit you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Cuña, I am not going to compete with you in stage arts, I have no intention at all, I recognize you a great journey in this field, not much less, but I believe that your intervention somehow hit directly with yesterday's and, of course, you, who speaks a lot about respect, I believe there is respect for this House, and when there is an interpellation, the interpellation must be fixed on the content of it, and you spoke very little — if, in a collateral way — of what it is posed in your interpellation, both in the explanatory statement and in the resolution part, and I will obviously, with regard to the House and with respect to the procedure, I will focus, as you will understand, on giving you an answer to the explanation that you posed to us in writing, because, if not, we would be in a game that does not really have any kind of meaning. [[Applause]] In any case, Mrs. Cuña, I share a question with you, and is that rural education in Galicia is a good teaching, quality and equity. In Galicia generally has it, but I deny the biggest, I deny the greatest in the sense that rural education has no quality. In contrast, German education has a very high quality, it's a well-equipped education with resources and services and it has good results. We've seen very little of ABAU's data from the old selectivity, where rural municipalities were very well positioned in the Galician complex. If it's true that this debate is linked, it has a driving thread with which we thought yesterday in the audience, and that's demography. Without a doubt, demography is Galicia's main structural problem, without any doubt. Some time ago, some of them thought that demography was almost a joke; something about right-wing people, I got to hear myself in this House, that that's a right-wing thing. So look, undoubtedly, at demography is Galicia's main structural problem, and it has three fundamental nuances. There is a problem of demographic dynamics, a problem of demographic structure and a problem of demographic location. A problem of evolution, with negative vegetative balances in the last three decades, which is completely surmounted by political dynamics; a problem of structure, with enormous aging, stronger in rural areas due to a tremendous low infantry in the last twenty-five years; and a problem of location, with a territorial structure where there is a imbalance between the coast and the interior, between rural and urban. And that evidently moves to the whole area of political management and public management. We said yesterday, because you mentioned the situation of demographic pressure and the need to provide educational services, create new squares, new centers in the metropolitan areas of the main cities of the country, as in rural areas of Galicia we have an increasing shortage of students for classes. But, of course, here is a vision I understand that it is wrong of you, that is to mix the cause with the consequence. Is there no population because there are no services or services because there is no population? That's a pretty complex circle. The vision of you is monolithic, that is, there is no population because there are no services. And I think that's a very small vision of a tremendously complex problem, which has a lot of variables, and this is just one of them. And since there are no rural education services, there is no population. There are experiences, there are empirical checks, there are empirical data, where in certain municipalities there is absolutely residual educational device, absolutely waste of supply of squares in relation to demand, and yet that doesn't make the population grow. That's a vision I think it's pretty small. You ask me, in the resolution of your inquiry, about the units. And I'm going to give you an answer, so they won't say that nothing was said about the units and that they don't take anyone by surprise. Look, every year, for many years, if they've been one-off, not, as you said, some educational centers. We've been closing units in Galicia for many years. The Bipartite has closed them, we have closed them in the current government and we will continue to close them, without a doubt, in the future, unfortunately, unfortunately. In the last ten years the most unitary year was closed in 2006, with much less population crisis: 28; in 2007, 21, last year it was 13; in the previous year it was 6, etc. I mean, there's always a review of the offer of unit schools, because there's no demand, basically no demand. At this point, I tell you — so that later you don't say that you don't say or speak in Parliament about these issues — that we are reviewing the registration data; we haven't closed them yet, no doubt in the month we will give the data. I'm not going to tell you now the number or the localities, because we don't know from the administrative point of view, but that there's going to be some closure. In the second fortnight of this month, data is likely to be released. Don't say, you didn't warn. I'll tell him they're going out, I'm not going to tell him the place. I also said it in the previous one, I said it in the previous one, you didn't want to understand. They're going out without a doubt, as they've always been in the last few years, with a difference: that the current government has a criterion. The criterion is: 5 students, close to school; 6 students, stay to school. There have been times, there have been recent years in time where, with a much smaller population and a much better economic situation, they've closed up to 9 and 10 students; also so that they don't lead to any kind of error or misinterpretation after all this. Every year there are unit adjustments. With regard to groupings, why do groupings take place? Basically, to preserve what complete cycles can be, and also with a criterion: 18 students per cycle. This makes it possible for some educational centres, some ECIPs, even though they have a small number of pupils, very young, to live in rural areas, with very few students. And the ratios and the adequacy of teachers, both ordinary and specialist, are under a umbrella, under some rules set in 2007, under a catalogue, which is strictly complied with. And it's a 2007 catalogue that didn't make this government and was made in high school. With which the faculty is an endowment that is always fulfilling the ratios established by law. With which I think, ladies and gentlemen, to raise that question is really, at least, surprising. And then there's what we understand as rural. Sure, let's talk about rural. What is rural? It's very difficult. Is Ribadavia rural or urban? The bridges are rural or urban? It would cost me work to come to a specific conclusion. If there's a statistical data, with which we can agree or not, but which is commonly accepted. What's that data? Town Hall of 10,000 inhabitants: upper, urban; lower, rural. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As a geographer, I question him. In Galicia it's very controversial, but statistically it's the official data that exists. In any statistics — let us say — both autonomous and national, as well as European, the figure of 10,000 is the reference figure, although it is questionable, because there are municipalities of less than 10,000 that can have a nature and a function and an urban economy and municipalities of more than 10,000 — we think in Lugo — that has a huge rural territory. But to simplify and accommodate some data, let's put 10,000 inhabitants. I'm going to give you some data that you probably don't know or don't know when it comes to dismantling. Look at that. The population of Galicia in municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants does not reach a third, it is 29.5%. Students are 18.6% in municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants. And the educational centers that exist in rural areas, understood by rural means 10,000 to the bottom, is 44.3%. That is, there is a density of higher education centers in rural areas compared to the total population and the school population. Supplementary services. Transportation and dining room. In all parishes, in all villages, in all parts of Galicia there is school transport, mainly in rural areas. There is an absolutely permeable service to the rural environment to transport students to the reference localities. It is true that there may be municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants where in urban helmets, in small urban helmets head of comarca or municipal headhead, there is no transport and the kids are walking. But in the parishes, in the places, in the villages of Galicia, all the children are transported, and in the vast majority where there is a dining service, the children of rural areas are accessed. I mean, there's a very important coverage too, there's an increasingly important presence of new plans, innovative plans, plans related to multilingualism, new technologies, etc., etc. I mean, I sincerely believe that rural education in Galicia is a good teaching. Now, that doesn't mean taking steps to reorganize the structure and supply of that service, thinking, on the one hand, about the sustainability of the service itself and thinking, on the other, about the quality of the service itself. Because a service is not static, because demography is not static, because society is not static. We have to see how it evolves and responds to its own structure. But if at all times, ladies and gentlemen, rural education is guaranteed in Galicia, both at the level of budget and at the level of services, as well as at the level of professionals, and always taking into account and having to take measures to ensure that this service is, as it is, of great quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u234	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u235	Mr. Román, I'm not going to compete with you as a geographer, but I'd like to know what your rating is, which you think of the territorial management of this country. And, of course, it still doesn't answer the million question, which is where it benefits. The example, the button sample to talk about the rural in general that we use, the center of Ribadavia, is shown to lose quality, that it's going to lose jobs, that it's going to assume teachers and teachers who have entered the transfer contest and are now in the air, and this is a damage and this is an impact. It is true that an inquiry is a request for explanations and responsibilities, and we believe that rural people, of course, are dealing particularly badly, at least in Ourense province. Where more cuts were in more vulnerable students, with special educational needs, it was in our province, which has a huge dispersal. If for other things you look at, for example, Lion, for if you do, they're much better at PISA in León than we do, and they have population dispersion. But that's no use to us. What's really important is that this process that you've been dismantling is reviewed; we hope they actually dialogue. The first thing to do is to dialogue with the educational community, with the agents involved, with the representatives and the teachers' representatives, with the parent and mother associations, even with the neighbors' associations and even with the local administrations. In fact, the obligation of the Administration is to guarantee the right — not the profitability — of all children in Galicia to be educated with the same quality standards. Positive discrimination towards rural education to tackle precisely what? The territorial imbalance. They abandon the economical logic and take those new glasses, the rights perspective, a necessary new vision. Fixing the population means that schools in rural areas don't disappear. And the theme of ratios is also a topic for discussion. A town without a school is a dead town. Let's turn it to positive: a people with school is a living people. You were talking about a circle, a circle that, of so much praise it, is being vicious; it's the circle that you think of from bringing relevance to our rural school. They do not provide for the compensation of access inequalities, they do not favor permanence. The more you power the concerted school, the more it goes to the detriment of public school and, in particular, rural school, which is the most affected. There's nothing to talk about at the concert school. Such as things are and demographic decline, it would probably not be almost necessary. The public school could absorb all the students because when the concert school was born, it was born to fill the needs of schools and to receive students. When there was a population, there was a lot of increase. Think about this and really plan that there is a real strategic plan and that we settle population in rural areas. Generating the future is not just teaching but economics and sociology. Also, as a good expert, have this commitment, Mr. Román, because there's something else to say at the concerted school, and we have to say that there are two rights; we're talking about rights. Our vision of our model with regard to its is different, its economicist, in terms of profitability, and ours is in terms of law, of the right that all our children have, live in the Courel or live in Outes, to have education and to have it in the same quality as the children of the city, please, or don't pay the same taxes? So this isn't paying attention. And with regard to concertation, before the right to elect center, we respect the right to elect center; before the right to equality, you who speak of innovation, what are you claiming?, the agreement that discriminates by sex? What more decimonial school, more anti-renovation, what do we have? It's kept in our community, when it's already questioned in many others and it's not accepted, because it's irrational. And if they want to have it, whoever wants to have it, let them pay it, that they have a lot of resources specifically for people, parents and mothers taking their children to these centers. And if not, defense of teaching...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u236	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u237	...public. The problem is, indeed, complex, and as complex as it is, it doesn't go back again, because it's really unbelievable that you're talking, it's a lie; it's made by decree, it's done the day that classes end, it's made of back and back to society, and it's a cry. We give a voice to those collectives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u238	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u239	...of course, that they claim the dignity of a teaching that you haven't said you benefited from yet. Why is losing three teachers' jobs to fill a huge economic gap?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u241	Tell us why, we don't understand it yet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u242	Thank you. Shuttle tower, cultural advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Cuña, the truth is, an administration -- I said yesterday -- has to adjust and manage its public services, because public services pay citizens with their taxes, and they have to make decisions. Now, what you cannot say is that the decisions taken at the time affect the right to education; in no case do they affect the right to education. And I think that in no case rural education has less rights than urban education, in no case. Moreover, I would say that you have more, more rights, understood from a quantitative point of view -- some ratios will give you afterwards -- you have more rights than urban education, because there is some positive discrimination towards rural education. You talk about frankly surprising ratios. Galicia you should know that the autonomous community that has the best student-teacher relationship in Spain, the best in Spain, and I'm sure you know that there are hundreds of educational centers scattered across the country in the inner neighborhoods that have very low teacher-to-student ratios, that I'm proud of the educational administration and that I'm proud of Galicia, that this also means an economic effort for high Galicia and that they have very good results, very good innovation projects and that they do fantastic work. [[Applause]] Starting to say or say that in rural there's a poor quality teaching I think it's an absolute mistake and it's trying to destabilize a teaching that works very well. Now, if you say that means you don't have to make decisions in the units, I've already told you that you're going to do what you've done over the past few years. [[Applause]] When the time comes, it will be announced and told, and you from there will talk about dismantling, but nothing further from reality. Obviously, Mrs Cuña, I didn't talk about the concert either because the concert in rural space is practically witness. And I'm going to give you a data on what you said about positive discrimination and how that cause-effect relationship, offer of population-services or student demand is not real. Look, to start a FP cycle there are a minimum number of students, different in cities than in the rest of the country. Seven cities are 12. There's got to be 12 students to have a FP cycle -- any FP cycle -- a minimum number, because it's understood that under that threshold it doesn't make much sense. In rural areas — i.e. the whole territory, except the seven cities — the ratio goes from 12 to 8. And I'm going to give you another data so we can talk about the correlation between demand and supply. This is the case: in the urban environment, 90% of the squares offered are covered, with a ratio of 12. Unfortunately, only 60% of the squares are covered in rural space when the level to have a line, in this case in FP centers, is 8. That breaks what you move, that the existence of the service brings the population. It's not true, and this fact I think it's very clear; that is, given that the difference goes from 12 to 8, however, in urban areas there is pressure on the cycles of FP and in rural areas there is not an excess of squares in some cases. It's possible that at some specific center, because it's missing, but in general, the statistical data is that. But I also know, ladies and gentlemen, that the explanation of the Board in general as it has not just convinced you, and I have taken a reference to a quote from a person — who I understand you will trust him — who is the former Secretary-General of the CIG-Ensino, Mr. Anxo Louzao. Mr. Anxo Louzao said not long ago — he read in Spanish because the appointment is in Spanish, although I know that surely Mr. Louzao said it in German: "Anxo Louzao recognizes that the demographic crisis and the depopulation of rural are the main cause of the closure of schools, but he also points out that many parents decide that their children go to reference centers in the area and not to the unitary school because they want to ensure a number of services such as transport, the dining room and also extra-school activities." This is an explanation made by a person we can agree with or disagree with, but it's a person we understand has a system knowledge. Those are the words of Mr. Anxo Louzao. [[Murmurs.]] And look, I could put a lot of examples of educational centers that are a real luxury for Galicia and rural space, and I'm going to put just two, two municipalities. There is a council of less than 10,000 inhabitants, with just over 9,000 inhabitants, having 10 educational centers, having 1,007 students and in which 120 teachers work; fewer than 10,000 inhabitants, 7 educational centers, 1,000 students, 120 teachers. Put your head down. And I'm going to put another one, the other county -- one case from a institute in a town of less than 5,000 inhabitants, 15 teachers, 72 students, 5 classes. And you'll realize that this vision that you're trying to move us, that you're economical, doesn't exist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u244	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u245	It covers a public service, which is fundamental, for equal opportunities, at individual and territorial levels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u246	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u247	You can believe that rural education as long as this government has responsibilities of government is absolutely guaranteed, and if you think rural education is of the worst quality that urban education tells you, and if they say so, we'll be in front of it, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u248	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u249	...we understand that rural education has a high level of quality and equity and we have the responsibility to manage it, and so we are doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u250	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, by G. P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Galician Union in connection with the dismantling of Renfe-Feve railway services in the territory of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u251	You have the floor to Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u252	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Also, he touched us at the worst hour, which is right before he goes to lunch. We asked you today for a fundamental service for this country, as is the large-scale train, the old Feb, and this is one of the reasons why since the Nationalist Block in Wales we have insisted over the past few months, but above all over the last few weeks, in which this Transport Plan of what is being talked about so much now and which was even discussed in this plenary session yesterday should be addressed from an integral perspective and not focus solely on the bus, because, as we will see, Galicia has a structural problem in its mobility policy and it has to cover also realities as it does in this case on the wide-metric train, the old Feb. It's an indispensable service — and they know, in addition, all the people we're here today — for the mobility of the marine, Ortegal and Ferrolterra communities. We're talking about populations of more than 200,000 people, but also about Galicia's connection to the North Corn when it comes to the transport of commodities. And we asked him through an inquiry, which, as you could verify, we recorded a few months ago, but which is still absolutely up to date, specifically our group registered this interview on 23 March. And what happened all this time? Well, let's do a quick retrospective. On April 26, i.e. a month after registering this initiative, the media published criticisms of the delays in Febe trains by imposing a single agent. The delays range from 20 to 40 minutes. On the trains, only the machinist is employed, so he stops on all the dockers, there are no users or not. By not travelling a reviewer, many people can't pay the ticket or take advantage of it to avoid it. Without payment, these travellers do not account either — you have to say — in user statistics. May 8th, first meeting between the Council, representatives of Renfe and the mayors of the Navy, Ortegal and Ferrolterra. Renfe commits itself to improving the organization of the line, to making short-term investments and ultimately to ensuring the maintenance of the service —din —. It also proposes the creation of a follow-up working group. May 16th, a week after that meeting. The Ferrol-Ribadeo train of 8.20, deleted throughout the week; Ribadeo-Ferrol, 3 p.m., also removed; Ferrol-Oviedo, tomorrow, with 25 minutes of delay throughout the week; cancelled one of the services Ferrol-San Sadurniño, the Oviedo-Ferrol would deteriorate and can not pass from Ribadeo; Ferrol-Ortigueira, cancelled at 1 p.m. and 3.05 p.m. A weekend — the press said — is disastrous, but — we have added — certainly usual. On June 7th, the damage is all about Feve's services in the county of Ferrolterra. "Two days of absolute chaos," says the press again. Monday's departure from San Sadurniño at 2.30 p.m. and 19.03 p.m. is suppressed, also in the reverse direction at 10 a.m. and 21.40 p.m. He didn't operate the Sardinian-Ferrol at 10:00 and Ferrol-Cerdit at 21.40. The region was blocked in the Navy. Most of the services were covered by road since only two of the nine trains on this line worked. At the end of the morning, there were eight broken trains of a total of nine. In other words, nine machines only work. On June 7, a month later, you come into contact with the mayors of those three districts that pass through the old Febe and propose that they appoint single representatives to make up that working group on a proposal from that first meeting. That same day, the mayor of Moeche, Bea Bascoy, Beatriz Bascoy, transferred that request for configuration of that working group to you, the Infrastructure Council, as well as to the manager of the Public Service of the Cantabrian Corn. Tell me that in the next few days you've been transferring all of your emails to name the corresponding spokespersons for that working group. Never again if I knew, so far, about the matter. On June 9, a day later, Renfe reports that he will strengthen the feve fleet and recover two trains. In addition, he claims that he has incorporated seven drivers and says there were no cancellations this year due to lack of drivers. Besides, Renfe gets to know his performance plan of metric width that all of us can have, at least from the BNG we do. On June 18, ten days after that announcement of Renfe, new cancellations, this time due to lack of drivers in the Fever proximity service — at least four of the services were cancelled on the routes Ferrol-Jubia, Ferrol-San Sadurniño and vice versa —. The reason: the lack of machines, to which we must add the continuous failures of machines — the old ones because they go old, and the news because they have problems since they bought them. Renfe continues to announce investments from — now yes — September 1st and until February 2018. July 4th: more incidences of shortage of staff to cover the holidays. On July 5th: train fire 2715 on the Appalla sidewalk, transhipped by road, and the track remains cut for at least two hours. On 6 July, Ribadeo-Ferrol, 655, was suppressed for damage in San Cibrao; Ferrol-Ortigueira was also suppressed at 1 p.m., Ortigueira-Ferrol at 15.20, Ribadeo-Ferrol at 3 p.m. and Ferrol-Ribadeo at 19.05. He made the Yubia-Ferrol route by road. July 7th: Ribadeo-Ferrol from 18.55, by road as well; around 11.15 hours, deleted; Oviedo-Ferrol, 11.15, deleted; Oviedo-Ferrol from 07.30 with more than one hour's delay; Ferrol-Ribadeo from 10.45 runs to Viveiro, Chancellor Viveiro-Ribadeo, and Ribadeo-Ferrol from 3 p.m. also cancelled. And so until today. We could go on. I prepared my intervention and even here I took the incidences. But you can consult social networks; among other things, the Platform for the Defense of the Old Fever. These are the consequences. Since the Galician Nationalist Block, we are absolutely convinced of the progressive dismantling of this service, which has not come from now on — it has to be said — but has been developing for a long time. The Fever has been dying for years, among other matters, of a time organization that does not meet the needs of the population, also agonized by the lack of maintenance, as reflected by the constant failures of the machines, also by the lack of maintenance of the roads themselves, the lack of personnel — the single agent is absolutely entrepreneurial —; by constant damage, delays, suppressions, cancellations and an absolute absence of planning and promotion of the service. And you know why? Because the Spanish Government doesn't care about Fever at all, and has been dismantling the service for years to justify its disappearance, or who knows if the operator's replacement for another private after the division of management between Renfe and Adif. But it turns out that here in Galicia is the only thing we have between Ferrol and Ribadeo. It guarantees the mobility of a population, as stated at the outset, of more than 200,000 people distributed in three districts, and it caters to the needs of economic sectors that are also fundamental to these areas of our country, specifically to the marine regions, such as the transport of goods from Alcoa. For sure, since June this year, the alumni has two fewer trains a week, from five that were weekly to just three; and less bad, because the alternative would be to disappear and move by road the hundreds of thousands of kilograms that leave San Cibrao weekly to Amoebieta. The question we ask you is, what is the Government doing to ensure the railway service of our country's northern cortex? What about the working group that was to be set up between mayors, Renfe and the Infrastructure Council? What are your plans for Galicia to have a railway connection to the north cortex meeting the needs of this country and the people who live and work in it? Because the trust that the population has in the service of Fever — I say — is practically absolute. We certainly believe that, among the many responsibilities, you, as the most responsible for the infrastructures of this country and for the mobility policy of the Greek Government, have a large part of responsibility in all this. So, almost remembering one of the phrases I think the most famous of the press in our country, I'm going to ask you the same question that a sports journalist asked Arsenio Churches at the time — we call it, at least among the journalists, "the total question": Counsellor What? Are you going to keep looking to the other side, making it like the thing doesn't go with you, or you're going to take the rent to rescue a fundamental service to which at this step there are only two TV sets left, in front of Renfe and the Ministry of Development, the lack of investments for years, the lack of staff, the progressive loss of quality of service, but the imperative need, at least for the regions of the Navy, Ferrolterra and Ortegal, to have railway connections adapted to our reality? [[Murmurs.]] Do you think Junta claims the transfer of the railway services of metric width, as Euskadi has already done or has already done Catalonia, that they have put in value, in addition, this means of transport thanks to that? Are they working on intermodal policies that allow for the efficient and effective planning of different means of transport in a combined way, services that are useful to the population? They are already working, or are they planning to do so, on promotion campaigns of service, the dissemination of hours, the adaptation of service and time schedules to the needs of the population so that we can finally count in our country, and above all in the areas of the northern cortex, with a railway system that meets our needs? Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u253	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u254	Thank you, President. Mrs Rodil, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for bringing this initiative to Parliament to discuss the services of the railway line Ferrol-Ribadeo, which we are concerned about and that we believe that it is necessary to improve, in which we have the utmost interest for so long and in which, of course — you already know and you have said so — we have no competence. But we're working because it's a matter of concern to us. We've been working on time and of course we want the neighbours of Ferrolterra, Ortegal and the Navy to have access to the railway services that suit their needs and that's why we've been working, so we've come to work. We have constantly moved to the Ministry and Renfe providing more competitive railway services. And then I'm going to tell you the exact management we've done since the Greek Government, even though you're going to be able to solve it from day to day. But let me point out that I believe that the questions you ask on this initiative are practically resolved. I therefore tell you that yes, we have addressed ourselves to the Ministry of Development and also to Renfe on repeated occasions to improve the railway line of Fever Ferrol-Ribadeo — with letters, with letters and by telephone — on a regular basis. We are in constant contact with Renfe, especially in recent months, with a flowing channel of communication; especially, I insist, in recent months. And we agreed, as you said, to set up that working group to address the best adaptation of these services. It's a working group that we consider important. So, I'm specifically telling you about those questions that I was asking. I think the facts are there and we have the will, the will of work to offer solutions. And I think that willingness to offer solutions is unquestionable by the Government of the Union. I think we consider, of course, at the Galician Summit, that the solutions are offered to work together, demanding justice and considering that the necessary is being invested; demanding justice for the Greeks. And we think it's a priority to work day by day and improve day by day, in this case, on the railway line Ferrol-Ribadeo. As you've been reporting, we have held meetings, we have convened and held meetings with the various mayors of the villages of Ferrolterra, Ortegal and the Navy. One year ago, on April 22, 2016, I had the opportunity to meet with the eighteen mayors, join the eighteen mayors to address the situation of rail transport in the area. Just as I immediately committed myself, as before, at four days, to recommiting the information that they moved me to that meeting, I transferred to who was the previous minister, the Minister of Development, all the documentation that the municipal representatives brought to me, their proposals for improvement, of course, asking that they be taken into account, since we were concerned, and that they showed interest and met and analyzed the demands made. In June last year I also went to the Ministry of Development again. The mayor of Moeche, who is a representative of certain municipalities, has provided me with additional documentation that we also attend and that we transfer to the Ministry of Development; therefore, communication and management to transfer to Renfe and to the Ministry of Development. I think that, of course, Renfe's management has been made. They've increased human resources, they've incorporated six more machinists. You just explained it yourself, last March, at the same time that we had knowledge of incidences, I made contact directly, immediately, with the President of Renfe — by letter of 15 March 2017 and also speaking to him personally — to transfer our concern and claim actions again and to resolve the lack of operationality of the line. It can't be said that there is no implication and that we don't act on the side of the Galician Union. We act and we get involved. So you can't say at any time that there's no involvement or action on the part of the German Government. A month later, on April 7, 2017, I again contacted the Ministry of Development, the Secretary of State, in particular, to reiterate our concern about the problems of functioning of those we were witnessing. And I asked him for a meeting, a three-band meeting, in order to deal with this problem and try to move forward in solving the problems of the feve line in Ferrol. I think you've given some of your fruit, Your Honor. And also last April was unanimously approved in this House, you know, asking the Ministry of Development for the investments needed to improve that railway line. And as it is our obligation, with that commitment and the concern we have at the Galician Council, we immediately transfer it to the Secretary of State. We also used to transfer again to the Secretary of State the incidences that had been recorded, insisting on the urgency of holding meetings and insisting on the urgency that the neighbours of Ferrolterra, Ortegal and the Navy were exposed to improvements in that railway line that we consider essential, and to make that line competitive and responsive to the demands of mobility in these areas. We informed him that we had planned a new meeting with the mayors of those districts and that we considered it absolutely necessary to have the presence of officials and representatives of the State and officials of Renfe. Objective: to be able to count first hand, to report first hand to the municipalities, the problem, of possible plans and proposals to put in place the improvement of that railway line. And so, a week later, on May 8, we held a meeting between Together, Councillors and Renfe officials — specifically, the Chief Executive Officer of the Renfe of Travelers, who was the one who attended. And by the way, we're also talking about Galicia's public transport plan, of course, in that dialogue framework we've seen for a long time. And since June we've been acting, we've been working proactively, demanding effective measures with a view to reaching agreements and implementing actions to improve the railway line. In this meeting we found sensitivity and involvement by the State administration. I think we all signed certain agreements, at a meeting that I think was constructive, between Junta, mayors and Renfe officials. The need to work together, working together and loyally, to solve the problems that are really necessary and that really matter to solve the problems of day by day, working day by day to solve those problems. I believe that, Mrs. Rodil, important progress has been made: the creation of this working group to improve the adaptation of services; the representative of Renfe reported the recent adoption of measures for organizational improvement, the reinforcement of staff and rolling stock to ensure an improvement in the provision of services; a commitment has been made that Feve Ribadeo-Ferrol had more machines, more trains, two more trains this same summer. Now we're moving forward in the configuration of that working group where we're going to all the municipalities. I hope to set up that working group as soon as possible. Afterwards, after talking about this working group, we also sent to the different municipalities the plan of action of Renfe, we gave him a transfer to all the municipalities once Renfe sent him to the board of Galicia. We refer it to the Eighteen Town Councils in this region, informing of the actions it intends to carry out, performances at stations, trains, workshops — EUR 4 million —. We hope that they will bear fruit sooner than later, since they are already firmly incorporated, for example, new workers at the Ferrol station. Mrs. Rodil, we are aware of the efforts being made by the State Government. That's how we demand it. All measurements must be extended to the train line north of Galicia. Those efforts in the modernization of the railway must be extended to this line. There is therefore total willingness of the Galician Union to mediate, to collaborate, and, among all, to add. We will be vigilant and we will see, of course, that Renfe's commitment and that these guarantees are offered to ensure that the districts of these municipalities have rail transport, meeting the demands of their neighbours, the needs of their neighbours. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u255	Thank you very much, Counselor. On the replica round, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u256	Thank you, President. The question we ask you is, after all that you just told us -- in part, some questions we've already exposed here -- whether you've improved your service or worsened. And I think in my intervention, in which I tried to go a review from the moment that we recorded this interpellation until practically last week, of what we noticed was that of Renfe's promises, as we've already been used to — and you have to say that because this is a recurring issue in this House, and you tell me that there are people here who have been able to debate in previous legislation on this, and you were talking about a unanimous agreement that was adopted in this House and that it was by the impulse of an initiative presented by the Nationalist Block of Galicia -- what we see is that everything remains, because, in this, in a document of four pages with promises, promises and promises that never come. Look, Renfe had been engaged years ago in the budgets of the Spanish State, 12 million euros that suddenly disappeared. And now what we have in Renfe's plan is €2.546.000 over the next four years. We also have a painting plan to make them more chords, to the exterior painting, exactly, of seven nearby stations. But what we think of is that what we need is a service, we need a rather deeper and more serious plan, with a degree and a level of investment much more important than what Renfe intends to compromise. Then what we need is a German Government not to measure, but to assume that, if this country wants to have a rail system in the northern cortex of quality and adapted to the needs of this population, it will have to assume the ability to decide on that competition. You said it at first. There's nothing else to get here. We don't have skills. We have to be calling the Ministry of Development on the phone to get them to help us, to paint us, to fix our machines, among other things. As an immediate measure in that plan committed by Renfe, it was mentioned the recovery, with a maximum date of 30 June 2017, of two vehicles in Ferrol with an investment of 52,000 euros. That machine, one of them, the first time you get on track is June 9th. Do you know where you were the next day? No mechanics again. We have a problem. And what we need is to hand it over to the machines in an integral way, because at all lights -- I can re-examine it from top down, from bottom up, as you want -- what we have are machines that, even younger ones, fail constantly and repeatedly. We repeat it already in that previous debate and we insist again now: the only territory, the only two territories, where what was the ancient Fever function are Basque and Catalonia. I'll give you the example of the Santander-Bilbo case, which takes three hours and you arrive as late as from Ferrol to Ribadeo. Who has the competition in managing that service? The Ministry of Development. What happens in the case of Basque territory? That, for example, of the latest accounting reports of the euskotren service itself — which can be consulted on the website, I recommend to everyone that they enter that web portal — what we see is that it gives them benefits. But why? Because there is a government concerned about providing a service that meets the needs of its population and, in addition, serves it as an element of not only social but also economic dynamization, from a tourist point of view, but also in the transport of goods. And there we have this North Corn in the country with factories like Alcoa, which might be seeing an opportunity for the transport of their goods through Feb. And what we see is that, from this last month of June, it went from five trains to three trains. We can't continue to believe what Renfe tells us because in view is the result of his failures. And what we ask you to do -- and so we will also formulate it in the motion accompanying this interpellation, in the next session -- is the commitment to assume responsibility and to say: we are the German Government, we want to have a railway service in the northern cortex of this country adapted to our reality and the needs of our people, and we, as adults, will assume the management directly of those competences. Because I've already told you that since we don't take the rents of our future, the Spanish Government in sight is that we can't expect anything at all. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u257	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u258	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Rodil, of course we have no powers. You ask that we have the powers, I suppose the deficit too, and that all the deficit that this service has because it is paid by all the Greeks. That's what they want, that the deficit of all this transport is paid by all the Greeks. But well... let me insist, Your Honor — I want to make it clear — that we are working continuously, constantly and repeatedly, working day by day, of course, so that it contains a competitive transport. You'll want it, but so will I. I can't let you think we're not working, that we don't want the railway line to get better. Because we're working to improve that railway line. We will continue to look for solutions through that working group, because we understand that the way it is to work together, all of us working together, to ensure that the measures are complied with, that they are implemented. And we'll see to that compliance, we'll mediate for those measures to be implemented, and the more, the better. Because we want and we bet why we need to improve that railway line Ferrol-Ribadeo. These are measures that are in this action plan, with EUR 4 million; measures that have already been initiated in 2016, which are important measures. For example, the provision of two more trains this summer, agreed on 8 May, the reinforcement of machines with the incorporation of seven new operators, new bases in Galicia for direct management in Galicia, and the reinforcement of rolling stock, which will allow more quality, and the adequacy and renewal of the workshop by strengthening the staff frame. The improvement doesn't stay here. Renfe will launch new large-scale maintenance plans in railway stations, in nearby stations, in other second-stage stations, also increasing security on platforms and promoting accessibility. And, Mrs. Rodil, apart from these measures that must involve tangible improvements in this railway line, the working group should start as soon as possible. The intention is to convene a meeting, as soon as they have appointed their representatives, to analyse, monitor compliance and even ask for new proposals to jointly demand new proposals. At Junta we're working, but it's true that there are five municipalities that haven't appointed their representative yet. The mayor of Ferrol — chance — today answered, the mayor of Ferrol. St. Sadurniño — from his political group — did not respond. We haven't sent it back. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, he has time to come to Santiago, to San Caetano, to a meeting he knew he couldn't be, because he knows he wouldn't be, to make a circus, to take a picture. You have time for this and you do not have time to send an email replying about the representative of the working group. That's your policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Before protesting, they try to work once and for all. Before they protest, they try to work. They demand and then stop working together in the working group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, what...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u259	Quiet, please! Listen to who's using the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u260	May the mayor of San Sadurniño and the rest of the mayors who are left to answer for work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u261	Please be quiet for everyone! Listen to who's using the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u262	And also at that meeting, of course, we're talking about the Public Transport Plan. I use it to refer to Galicia's public transport plan, where we are working in coordination with the different railway lines. Within the first phase of the Public Transport Plan, the Comarcas and the Councils of the Navy are lit up, Ortegal and Ferrolterra of course will benefit, and will benefit. They are part of the process of reorganisation and modernization of this first phase of the Public Transport Plan. Because not only will it guarantee services but we will substantially increase bus services, coordinated, of course, with different means of transport, which will benefit 95% of the districts of Ferrolterra, Ortegal and the Navy; it will allow to increase by more than 200,000 kilometres in order to improve the mobility of people in all regions. We'll multiply the number of stops because the neighbors will be able to access the facilities that school transport gives with these empty squares. Neighbors will have a stop very close to their home, and I believe that, of course, with these new transport services and the improvements that we want to make in that working group — to see if we can convene that working group — will certainly improve the transport and mobility of the neighbors of the Ortegal, Ferrolterra and the Navy communities. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u263	Thank you very much, Counselor. We'll suspend the session, if you like, until 16.45. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u264	Let's restart the session. Interpellation by Mr Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Government of Greece in connection with the financing of the International Compensation Fund
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u265	Mr. Fernández Leicega has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u266	Good afternoon again. At this hour, after this full so intense, I think we're going to have an interpellation in which I hope we can have a great deal that settles on a motion at the next plenary, right after the summer, in which I hope we can all agree as well. The inquiry revolves around the inadequacies and the need for a regional policy in Spain, because today there is no such thing. Regional policy is now being established through European funds and, although the Spanish authorities are participating, the fund is planned and directed from the Community level. I believe that the objective of regional policies is to facilitate the convergence of backward regions, to reduce inequality — especially on the basis of more intense growth in areas, in areas, in regions, in communities that start from a situation, let's say, of relative delay — and to do so, in addition, by increasing the perimeter of their economy as well as, above all, in terms of income or production per capita. And we believe, in addition, that this regional policy will be more necessary in the future. The crisis raises a question about the continuity of convergence processes. The outcome of the crisis is likely to make it difficult for this to happen spontaneously. The market forces are expected to be strengthening the north-east quadrant, which is where the earlier regions in Spain are concentrated, among other things, by the force it has, by its use, the European sphere, the European central area, of higher production capacity, of greater productivity. But other processes, such as technological change itself, will make it difficult for areas like ours to cope with that rhythm. And, moreover, Spanish regional policy is more necessary than ever because, in a context where fiscal stability and financial sustainability of autonomous communities remain one of the keys to our policy — it must not be the only one, but must remain one — the debt capacities will be more limited and predictably European funds from the next programming period mean less resources for our country to the extent that we have to compete with areas — especially in eastern Europe — much more needed than we do. And, in addition, Brexit will cause a net decline in Community resources, which are estimated at around EUR 10 billion. So all of this is going to be translated into difficulties to maintain the level of funds we receive today, among other things. So the question is -- I suppose even here we will basically agree -- what can we do? And I think we have some basis, we have some basis to play. The Interterritorial Compensation Fund, which is in the text of the initiative, played an important role in the last years of the 20th century; especially in the last decade of the 20th century in Spain. It is therefore an instrument that remains alive — although very weak, as I shall now explain —. He is still alive and therefore needs to regain his role as the axis of a regional policy that has to have more intensity and other characteristics than he has had in recent years. And one advantage for this to happen is that the Interterritorial Compensation Fund is part of the provisions of the constitutional text. It is enshrined in the Spanish Constitution of 1978 and therefore it is easier to use that instrument, which has a constitutional backing, to build from there a regional development policy in Spain that fights the internal territorial imbalances worthy of that name. The truth is that the fund has been legally frozen since 1990. There was a small reform in 2001 which I believe has not substantially improved this instrument. Probably got a few things even worse, or something more complicated. In any case, it has been maintained since 1990, but, at the same time as there is stability, the fund has gradually lost importance to the point of becoming irrelevant today. And it's good to know why. This comes from two phenomena. The background is a calculated percentage of the new civil investment contemplated by the General State Administration, and that's the reference variable. And that variable is the one that falls substantially, and it falls for two structural reasons and one motive of a conjunctural character. Structural measures are that, in so far as there is strong decentralization of spending competences in favour of autonomous communities, the State is becoming less competent and therefore also the investment it makes is reduced, because it makes the investment itself the autonomous community of reference. Then this weakens the background. But the second — and perhaps more important than this, especially in the last decade — is that the General Administration of the State is gradually outsourcing its investments. I mean, who makes the investments is Adif, not the Ministry of Development, to a large extent. But the investments made by Adif do not count at the base of the fund and therefore do not lead to filling in that bag that then is distributed among the self-employed communities that would benefit, among which Galicia is. And as a result, the volume of resources attributed to this regional policy used through the International Compensation Fund is very low, has a downward trend. And that's a conjunctural issue, which is that, since 2008, as a result of the adjustment in public finances, the first one to be cut is investment. And so also the resources attributed through the CFI to autonomous communities with a lower level of development, such as Galicia, fall substantially. We therefore have an instrument inscribed in the Constitution, which is the main instrument — not the only one, but the main one — a regional policy instrument that Spain, the Spanish State, currently has, and this instrument progressively weakens until it falls into irrelevance as a result of these phenomena. The beneficiary communities, including Galicia, nevertheless looked elsewhere. This was hardly ever part of the political debate between the autonomous communities and the State administration. First because they're not all, the earliest ones are out. They're outside the Basque Country and Navarre, those in the coupon system. But also many of the common model, because they exceed average income per inhabitant, and this weakens the joint position of autonomous communities. But also because, at the same time as the fund was weakened, the resources of the fund, we had the resources from Europe, the ERDF funds, cohesion funds — basically the Feder funds — and others that met the same needs as the International Compensation Fund, which met the needs of a regional policy and which, on average, multiplied the resources of the FCI — and today probably more than eight and sometimes ten times as many as ten — by more than four resources. So, as we had these resources available, no one cared about the others, but, of course, in the future it's certainly not going to be that way. And we therefore believe that there is a need to discuss regional policy again and revitalize the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. And this is a position that can be led by Galicia, and turned it into a powerful regional development tool that gives a new impetus to real convergence between territories. We should discuss and be able to reach an agreement on how to determine how many resources should be allocated for this purpose and which autonomous communities should be the beneficiaries. Today there are some people who receive the ICF who have a income level per inhabitant above average, because communities have fixed at the time and it has not been played again, and there is no determination with established criteria on which the receivers should be. So they keep giving resources to those who initially received them, and this doesn't seem to be a very sensible criterion. And, above all, we should discuss how we should put this instrument into a planned regional policy, with a strategy, with a posterior evaluation of results, which therefore incorporates the best features of management of European funds and which avoids some others, such as excessive, sometimes bureaucratic, which makes them very difficult. So the purpose of the inquiry is to get to know the views of the Galician Council on this issue, which seems to us to be relevant to the future, and at the same time to start building a regional policy from this debate where we can all be in line, where we can participate, and which has the support of the House as a whole. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. Mr. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u268	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. First of all, I want to thank you even for the personal behavior you had with me fifteen days ago, because, in principle, this interpellation was going to be substanceized fifteen days ago and, for personal reasons, I couldn't be here, which I really appreciate in personal terms as well. In the account you have just made, in principle, about what the International Cooperation Fund means as one of the main instruments of regional policy that we have in Spain, little more than to add; perhaps certain killings. Let me also use this forum, this debate, to introduce not so much appreciation, but our opinion on this subject. A subject that, as you well said, has a correlation that already begins in the Constitution itself 158.2, doesn't it? where in a very clear way the need to form a fund that makes the principle of solidarity effective. Therefore, the origin of an interterritorial difference can be seen in objective parameters. In fact, you also introduced the change — if true, of a significantly lower content — of the year 2001 by Law 22 already at the end of the year, where certain issues were introduced that relate to the consideration or application of these funds to new investments, but also to the start-up of such investments. You did not refer here, you did not quantify—I mean exactly—but you did refer, as since the 1990s, especially in the first decade of this century, if you had a smaller quantitative significance, and by different avatars, quite well reported by you, which have to do with two effects: with the effect, indeed, of centrifugation, which is also produced in certain organisms not considered in the perimeter on which the level of this compensation fund is found and, above all, it is undeniable, because the capital effect of the economic crisis since 2008 on the investment of the Central Administration and its autonomous organisms, apart from that centrifugation, which is what causes today, indeed, the FCI does not come to represent for this autonomous community anything more than 0.5 % of what its non-financial income is. So one question we fully agree on is that to correct, if the option is a policy of correction of territorial imbalances, regional policy in capital terms — which should have faced the Kingdom of Spain — I do agree with you that the first thing we need is a certain level, a level that we do not have right now. But I would also like to place a little appreciation on the words you said. One of the important falls, too, but not as much, as we have just commented — but it does complete the account made by you — has to do with the criteria for distribution. And the criteria for distribution are, above all, in line with two issues. First of all, in fact, there are certain number of clauses in the communities that deserve this kind of fund, but on the other hand, what we are talking about is per capita income, per capita income and on the other hand also unemployment rate — or vice versa, of employment — which are the two variables on which the level of distribution is determined for each year. What has also been noted since 2008 is that, starting from a per capita income level of 87.4%, at present the Autonomous Community of Galicia is two points higher, approximately 89.2% or 89.3%. So there's been a good evolution, if it's true that we all aspire to have an evolution even a little more accelerated about this parameter, as well as in the parameter of unemployment. In the unemployment parameter, the last month's figure, there's a recorded unemployment rate of 191,000 people, being a really high, very high number, and we can't be somehow convinced that it's the best of situations -- even in its composition, as other groups have expressed in this House. If it is to be said that it presents a clearly better evolution than the rest of autonomous communities that are worthy of such funds. So these are two assessments that we should take into account, as well as the great change that is taking place, also ahead of you, which has to do with a factor — perhaps another factor that has not been introduced, I suppose not so much because it has forgotten it but because it really does not come to be given a class—which is on the one hand the quantitative importance that for our autonomous community, with its risks, has all the European structural funds, both Feder and EADER, which are the great block that has allowed to maintain, both in the 2007-2013 framework and in 2014-2020, what our investments and our great change, with the same objectives even that it has politics simply through, in principle, the International Cooperation Fund. But you also know that there was another big change, which in essence also coincides with the parameters and objectives that are being achieved with this type of interterritorial equilibrium instruments, such as the birth in 2009 of the Cooperation Fund. The Cooperation Fund in 2009, with similar parameters, is already beginning to be significantly higher, which means in quantitative terms for this autonomous community in the first year approximately 25% higher than the International Cooperation Fund. And in 2014, then you'll compare, when we talk about a fund that closes to the Euro2 billion set in Spain, and the FCI that year barely exceeded the €430 million. So there's a quantitative symmetry on the level. And this is what brings us the bond is that we can't promise us too much happiness with an option alone, so it can be or what can represent regional policy, even reaching volumes much more important than we have right now, which doesn't reach 50 million euros for the autonomous community of Galicia in an exercise. And we should make an effort, as we have already begun — because we are very grateful to you from this group — especially what you have to do, because it is no longer a piece of money, even though it is an added correlation, but it is not exempt from the great influence of the revision of the financing system. The review of the financing system, with this kind of fund in the current situation, is conditioning a lot. In view of the above, the questions you asked about the level, I believe that any autonomous community of which we are currently recipients of this kind of fund cannot in any way feel satisfied by the level reached. And I'm also going to talk to you about some of the issues we've considered in principle for the future. The future must, indeed, begin by trying to find the common basis — and if it can be in this Parliament, better than better — but knowing that we have to promote such initiatives in order to increase these resources. But, with all due respect — I, even being a relatively exalted person, am speaking in a very low tone — is not so much about raising our voice and arming ourselves with enough arguments to be able to explain and promote these kinds of initiatives from, above all, very well coincided with time. Above all, because it's also advancing the issue of self-financing. It works very well in time to try to build on these initiatives, to promote these kinds of initiatives with sufficient resources and also to be able to add other territories that are basically in the characteristics in which our community is extremely intensive. So, yes, we are terribly in favour of increasing the resources of the CFI as the main tool, recovering a little bit of what it was. Above all, because there is indeed an important risk of what European funds can be for the future and also for the way out of the United Kingdom, which will cause certain adjustments, or may cause them, in the next few years. But also what we are is terribly supportive of another concept. You had in writing the concept of multi-year character. In this I think there's a little more general concept. It's not so much the multi-annual concept, in all my respect, but the concept in which I think we will also agree is that of dynamic stability. I think it's much more interesting about the concept of dynamic stability, which marks us a floor, which gives us a future horizon. That's why we have to make our multi-year forecasts but always on a more operational level. But the most important thing is to have enough strategies for development, something that this autonomous community and this government has already done, above all, since the past legislation, when we gave ourselves our roadmap starting at the highest level — as may be the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan — but also with a number of plans and programs that both in economic and social terms have implemented this government. As always, with plans and programs, what we have to do is follow them, improve them, and complete them with others that today are not. But, above all, what we have to be clear is the development strategies for, with different types of funds — including own funds — being able to carry them out. Also, a little as you said — and to finish this first intervention — I think it is good to look at how European funds work. But, with all due respect, I think we must not mimic proceedings in a tax manner, as they are done in the European funds. Because it has to be borne in mind that, when we talk about, for example, the bottom of this last milestone of 2014-2020, it turns out that the framework has not been approved until 2015 and the operational programmes up to 2016.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u269	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u270	Apart from that bureaucracy, you will understand that... Therefore, our willingness to open enough debate, because regional policy is very important to try to dynamize our society, both socially and economically, which is what brings us here, or at least what moves us to this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr. Fernández Leicega has the floor on the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u272	Good afternoon again, for some killings, or I wouldn't say so much to the discrepancy as to the opening of a somewhat different line: the question of the cooperation fund that raised the relationship of the FCI and regional policy to the system of self-financing. I'm not in favour of calling both. I know that there are other visions about this and that even in other autonomous communities surely — because this is not only a matter that affects Galicia but that it will involve much of the autonomous communities of the common regime — there are different visions. But it is clear that the system of self-financing must provide autonomous communities with resources or resources to finance basic services on an equal footing between them. And this must be regardless of the level of income per inhabitant, depending on the needs of the services. While regional policy should work together, it should contribute, so that those communities that have a weaker, more backward starting position can overcome the obstacles that this poses, for their differential growth, in order to converge with the others. And this has nothing to do with the level of services exactly, it's something else. Because if we don't, we can find that in some ways there are communities that have a lower income but a higher level of services than the average; and yet they probably still need some regional policy instruments in order to converge. That is why, in my modest opinion — it is an opinion — the 2009 Cooperation Fund introduced into the system of autonomous financing was a mistake, an error that must be corrected and that it is preferable not to persevere in it towards the future. And that, in addition, would clearly allow us to say that regional policy is done aside from this and that is done through another instrument. The second question — not to waste time — has something to do with this: the reference quantities. This year for Galicia is 44 million. If we're talking about amounts like this, I know it's not worth spending too much time seeing how we design, what we do, etc. Because this can't build a strategy. The European funds, 400 million to 500 million each year, because they are a much more reasonable and sensible figure. I know that we can hardly aspire to get there with the International Cooperation Fund, but perhaps an intermediate point that allows us to go back to the level of resources that Galicia had provided ten years ago, over 220 million euros, five times the current situation, as it is a quite reasonable aspiration. And I think that maybe that level is what we should aspire to. We have to fight for this, which is not easy, because we have to convince other communities and we have to convince the General Administration of the State, and we already know that in the current situation this will have some complications. But this is about using our country's bases to get the best financial situation possible. Third question: the criteria for distribution. Actually, I didn't come in because it's ten minutes, and now five. In the distribution criteria, as you know, there are two levels: one that has to do with the average income in relation to the beneficiary communities, let's say what is called a redistributive criterion — that this is possibly to be maintained — and then distributive criteria, some of which are reasonable and sensible, but there are some others that are not, and that should be substantially reformed when we face this — and there we can talk more in the motion, now it does not take much time. But besides, they cause something that connects with the issue of dynamic stability, they cause an annual change in the resources of funds for some communities that is excessive. That's why relative stability is good, but that has to do with the design of criteria for distribution between autonomous communities, where I think we can move forward. In addition, multi-annuality has to do with strategy and management. And I think relative stability is good, but pluriannuality is also. Because if not, this forces us to an exercise year by year that I think is excessive. We should... I don't know if five or seven years, as in the case of European funds. Surely a part of bureaucracy has to be removed, he said it before. But this idea of saying: we know where we want to reach within seven years, are we guaranteed that during that time we will have resources — not exactly, but if we have an approximate amount of resources — and therefore not all the criteria will be reviewed year by year? Issues like this seem reasonable because they allow better management of resources that are allocated to autonomous communities. And these are basically punctuations. In any case, we will have an opportunity in September to discuss more specifically what we call upon the Central Administration to make sense of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. The councilman of Fairy, Valeriano Martínez García, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u274	Thank you again, Mr. President. I've got some notes here. The truth is, this subject, as I'm very interested in it, is that I have a little personal work to do. Maybe I'll start at the end, because I think it's the most important thing we've just talked about today, at least to be positive. And I think there's a big point in common with you, with the group that you represent, so you just raised this very important issue, also for the autonomous community. But I think there might also be other groups represented in this chamber. So, therefore, we hope to count on the help enough to arm ourselves from reasoning, so that from Galicia, together with other territories, without raising too much voice — because I don't think it's a question of raising our voice but of bringing us up from sufficient reasoning — to try to get the FCI to recover enough level for each autonomous community and, from its autonomy, to be able to design those policies; which was what I told you earlier, that the really important thing is that these development strategies are in conflict. Because a chascarrillo yes I will, with all due respect and solemnity of this place where we meet this afternoon today. What is important is not so much to provide us with enough level for a proper policy of territorial imbalances, to try to overcome them, by an autonomous government, but that what this government expects is, within eight or ten years, not to be talking negatively about what territorial politics can mean. What more do we want! Because we believe in 158.2, but it's undeniable that, if things do them very well, we could be talking, on an eight- to ten-year horizon, about not being a net receiver of this kind of policy. And also another little chascarrillo: I don't think it was so much a mistake the concept of the cooperation background as such. Let's say it introduces very serious, very serious distortion elements in what it can be. On the other hand, it is actually mixing the leveling with which development policy can be. In that we fully agree with you. Therefore, starting from the most proper reasoning of this group, as is its approach to content in 158.2, the principle of solidarity, in which we believe not only that we are currently recipients, but also that we can in the future, the closer we are, to be debtors — that is, to help other types of autonomous communities — we support this kind of policy, that kind of instrument. There was indeed a marked variation during the crisis. The Greek Government, in which our powers are, in principle, believe that in an increasingly agile way, even starting from a level of management where they did not reach the 50% of the CFI's execution — such as, for example, in 2009, without taking any sticks to the head, which assumed that 190 million euros were not executed at the moment — we are at the level, at the moment, that it does not even reach the 12 million euros not executed, and with a relative execution of 50% to 85-88%; I think that something is also doing well there. We are deeply in favour of the concept of dynamic enough to have planned multi-annuality. For us, it's nothing more than an operational matter. But, as I told you earlier, the great challenge that we have to mark as society through the strategy that I think is essential — and not so essential — that this government has been quite predetermined for the past eight years, is to have the strategy enough to reach one day, within eight or ten years, saying that this kind of funds are not needed in positive terms. That's the challenge we owe ourselves and that as government we face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u275	Thank you very much, Counselor. Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Italian Government in relation to professional intrusion in the field of health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u276	To formulate the plea, Mr. Torrado has the floor, but if you wait five seconds, I'm told that the Health Counsellor will now come in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u277	...it won't be like a minute and I peak before in the middle of urticaria... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's austerity, so they already come less and spend less on air conditioning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u278	If it looks like the spokespersons, we ask a question... You're not the next advisor, either. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing, Julio, we got nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u279	I want to take advantage of it, Mr. President, and I do it from the rostrum, what would happen if what is not a member of the interpeler? [[Murmurs.]] Of course! No, if I'm sure there's no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u280	We've suspended the full five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u281	I'm here and I didn't say anything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u282	We've suspended the full five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u283	I was here and I didn't appreciate it. The president gives me an appreciation and then I ask him. They could actually check that I left the gallery kindly to let you ask the next question. I was just moving a question. It's all right. If I can't even ask...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u284	We then suspended the full five minutes. The session is suspended. The session is resumed. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u285	I'm informed that the Health Counsellor is on his way, which takes quite a few minutes, but if it seems to you, if the author of the question agrees, we can move on to question number — we're not going to be wrong — 7.4, which is the Galician Nationalist Block, which makes it to the Education Counsellor. Do you agree? Yeah? [[Affirmation.]] Okay, so then we turn to question 7.4 and then, when the health adviser comes, we resume the interrogation. Ms. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the reconstruction of the Cascairo River yard, located in the parish of San Martino, in the municipality of Moaña, to dedicate it to the museum, as planned
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u286	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u287	Good afternoon, Counselor. On the night of June 9-10, 2017, very serious events occurred in Moaña Town Hall. An attack was perpetrated against the assembly that composes the coastal shipyards of Carlago and Casqueiro; a fire at these already clearly intended heights, which ended with the destruction of the Casqueiro carpentry and caused significant damage to Carlago. This set had an important value, being one of the best examples preserved at the ethnographic and heritage level of Galician coastal carpentry. That attack requires a unanimous, clear and direct institutional response of conviction without palliatives. It suggests the breakdown of the democratic rules that we have given ourselves, with a clear failure to respect the democratic decisions which have been adopted by the institutions. Casqueiro's carpentry had already suffered other previous attacks: a first attempt to burn, the appearance of paintings announcing its destruction, but this attack on the night of June 10 is more serious, if possible, for various reasons. The first is because it is in the process of declaration of property property, with established protection, already in force, for both buildings and their contents. It is in the process of inclusion in the Galician Cultural Heritage Catalogue, launched at the end of 2016. It was the same day of publication in the CEO of the Board's resolution of cataloguing the techniques and knowledge of the coastal carpentry as a Greek intangible heritage, and it became clear that the intention was not only to destroy the protected set, but also to avoid its cataloguing by Heritage as a cultural asset to protect. An attack on the signs of identity and the collective memory of the people of Moaña in particular, and more of the whole of the Greek people in general. The question is what to do now, what to do now. As I said earlier, condemn this attack, which constitutes a crime with an obvious intent and as such must be qualified by all political forces. To demand a police and judicial action that identifies the perpetrators and responds to this fact. And then, of course, the priority must be to carry out a contingency plan to act on the yard and develop an action plan to protect, restore and preserve the ethnographic set; cleaning and distinguishing jobs, looking to the extent possible for recovery, cataloguing and inventory of remains that may have ethnographic value; and protection maintenance. The attack and destruction of an important part of the Cascairo yard cannot prevent the process of declaration of good cultural interest from continuing. And on behalf of the board you run, we believe that it must be solved as soon as possible by the protection file so as not to allow terrorists who have attacked everyone's heritage and all can get away with it. With which, Mr. Counsellor, we ask you today from the Nationalist Block Galego is whether the Government of Wales, its councillor, will be involved in the reconstruction of the Casqueiro bank and also in the part of Carlago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u288	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Cores, I want, in the name of the German Government, to clearly regret the event that took place that night in the village of Moaña, on the bank of Casqueiro, which we all know is under judicial and police investigation. I believe that the will of the Galician Union in respect of this ethnographic, cultural or whatever we want to call it is very clear, so there are two resolutions published in the Official Bulletin and the DOG that in some way clearly express the intention of the Galician Union in respect of this package. The first — as you well know — is the proposal to initiate the procedure of inclusion of this good in the Catalogue of Galician cultural heritage, the set of the shipyards of Casqueiro and Carlago, which, as you have said, are in the parish of San Martin de Moaña, in Moaña. And the second has to do with the initiation of the procedure to declare BIC, good of cultural interest, the intangible heritage; that is, what are the constructive techniques linked in this case to coastal carpentry. To say — according to what you have proposed — that in no case the physical destruction of the container — to understand us — of the immaterial good that you want to protect, which is the coastal carpentry, will affect the administrative procedure in order to be able to initiate and resolve everything that has to do with the arrival at the final point, which is the statement by BIC — Immaterial BIC in this case — of this type, this profession. Because what matters here is not so much the building itself, which had relative value, but what was done inside that building. You told us what to do, what to do now. Since this file was processed, and since the unfortunate situation of the fire was known, the first thing to do is to resolve the administrative allegations to the procedure to include these goods in the Catalogue. We have a total of 433 allegations that, of course, we have to resolve according to democratic law; in this case resolve the allegations. The second thing that's about, also linked to the BIC statement, is to censor all the coastal carpentry we have in the country. The shoreline carpentrys were in the whole coastline, obviously some of them maintained some conservation of the trade, others were already missing. In this BIC declaration procedure, we have to make a census of the riverside carpentrys that are being maintained. And thirdly, we must also wait for what the resolutions of judicial and police investigation are to impose, if any, fines on this fact, attack, or what you want to call it, on the heritage. So we're talking about a fine that would be to confirm and detect the cause, of between 150,000 and a million euros. Obviously, here we have to wait for the resolution of what the police and judicial procedure is. And fourthly, one thing that has already been done is to ensure the safety of the contour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u290	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u291	...Vencellated to this intervention. In that sense, we have already had contacts with the Council of Moaña to ensure that this space is safe and secure — as I suppose you will know — between the Council and in this case the Council of Moaña. Thank you very much. Could not connect with [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u293	Of course, from BNG we're blessed with the answer you're giving, which is going to be a continuation in the process of cataloguing this coastal yard, and it seems obvious to us, because these yards are a cultural treasure. Ships of wood, dornas, boats, pailebots, traiñas, gamelas... this is a valuable set of resources linked to the history of the life of the sea people, a testimony to their past and also to the present. It will allow me to disagree that the building itself had no value. It has the value itself and it has the value of the enclave where it is located, which is in the middle of the historical hull and has direct access to the sea because it worked, and then that's not a minor matter. It's not about doing a museum somewhere else, it's about keeping it where it was, and I hope this is how it is. And then, aside from continuing the process of cataloguing and yard processing, I'd like you to say today that more will be involved in the Council. If you're going to be involved in reconstruction, how many resources is going to be allocated, because it's been over a month since this attack and we'd like to have seen an action by the German Government at least similar to what it was, for example, when unfortunately the Muxia shrine was also burned, which was burned on Christmas 25th and on the 27th day the Greek Government was saying that construction was going to cost itself what it cost, that 100 percent of the construction project was assumed, which was already used from 700,000 to 85,000 euros to carry out the work, which was going to be rehabilitated in a few months... and we, of course, expect there to be a commitment at least equal, because we're talking about a very high-value heritage in Greek culture, in our Greek heritage, in our idiosyncrasia and in what we're as a people, with which I've been satisfied with its first challenge. And not only I, but I am convinced that the Town Hall of Moaña, the neighbours and neighboring Moaña, are satisfied, but, of course, they wait for the Councillorship to see you go beyond just continuing with the preservation work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u294	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u295	In this case, Mrs Prado, you will understand that you must be guided by a principle of prudence. There's an open, judicial, police investigation, and, obviously, until it's resolved, there's some caution in this area. It's true that from the Moaña Town Hall there has been the intention of making a kind of museum, a museum linked to the marine trades, to the coastal carpentry. It is also true that, in this case, the title of this constructive good, as you know, was from Costas until very little time ago, and I don't know if exactly now the procedure is finished, if the administrative concession to the family that had that concession expired, because the Town Hall wanted to receive this concession for itself in some way. I don't know exactly, because it's a matter that has nothing to do with the autonomous administrative field, but it's state, it's local, and the autonomous administration there has no part in that process. In any case, we know that also — for the information we have — by the Town Hall is interested in making a museum, a museum linked to this kind of activity. I mean that of course the Town Hall has all the right of the world to make a museum linked to the coastal carpentry, linked to the history of the sea, linked to the fishing tradition of this town, obviously has all the right of the world. I'll also tell you -- and I'm telling you with total frankness -- that obviously the Galician Union already has equipment on this line. I mean, we have in front of, in Alcabre, the Museum of the Sea of Galicia, and we have behind the Museum of Bueu, which are two museum facilities where we can clearly collect all that could be collected in this museum, which has undoubtedly significant local importance, but obviously, from the point of view of the Council, we have that field of service perfectly covered. We, if we somehow ask for collaboration -- we understand that not economic, but technical -- could talk about it, we could discuss it, but starting from the basis that by preserving the Town Hall's right to consider that activity, which we understand very legitimate, we, as autonomous administration, already have in one case the Alcabre Museum, the Galician Sea Museum, which is in Vigo, in front of fair, and behind us have the Massó Museum, and all that could be overcome by the intangible heritage that could be collected in this facility, is perfectly collected both in one and another, and we're not going to triple the museum equipment or offers in which it is said the same at the bottom. In any case, I think this is a problem of coexistence, a problem of coexistence between different activities and different uses, and I think there is no doubt space to be able to reconcile all the uses that can be posed in that strip of territory. I think it could be considered, without a doubt, to make a museum, to make a cultural equipment, to make an educational equipment, to finish the tour... I think that there, with good will on the part of all, undoubtedly one can be compatible, one can add up and one can convert that space into an even more attractive space than it already is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u296	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thanking Members again for their generosity in order to be able to change the agenda, let us return to the call — this time yes — 5.4. Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Italian Government in relation to professional intrusion in the field of health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u297	To make an inquiry, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u298	Thank you, Mr. President. Now if we're going to face the interrogation, Counselor, that for a moment I thought the personnel cuts would reach the councillor and I wouldn't have anyone to answer my question. Today we are bringing here a debate on health intrusion because we believe it is a problem of great importance and that it is growing, unfortunately. There are, of course, two debates about intrusion; one that is the priority for us, which is the entry into the health system of people without training, without training to do any work, and which, nevertheless, are advertised and developed, with the consequences that can have in terms of supposedly health care. And there is another debate — in which we do not believe it to be productive today — that to the competitiveness between professionals, which sometimes produces — if it is true — some kind of problem. In any case, we're talking about the first guy, which we consider to be the worrying. Intrusion affects patients. We all know, and we've been conscious, sure, through the media, of serious real cases and with very hard consequences. And it also obviously affects professionals who constantly alert patients' associations and the official schools of this problem. I use to greet some of the representatives of the official schools who are following us today from the rostrum. We speak of homeopathy, reiki, various layers, even visionaries, healers, posers and a whole series of supposed professions that boast of solving problems when they don't really do so, and when they are totally illegitimate and unacceptable in the system. Where's the source? From our point of view, there are three points of origin: in a social case, in a legal case and in a political case. In the social environment, health is such a vital necessity for people who even generate some irrationality. When people are bad, really very bad, they don't enter into the usual rational process, and therefore difficulties become such a high priority that they even cling to what is easily called "burning slaves." In these situations of need there are people who take advantage of themselves, and that is sad and regrettable, but there is. There is also a certain ignorance. There's a lack of real awareness about the situation, and there's an over-information, which generates bad information. There we can often blame the great advance of the network and of the information points without a filter and the inability often to control all the information that is generated, but also the certain legitimation that is made. We can start over there now, and I'm making my first criticism. Certain speeches should not be legitimized. For example, I think of the sadly famous anti-tivacin speech of a supposed presenter or bad communicator, who, by the way, speaking about the anti-tivacins said real barbarized, but said it in a public environment, and nobody did anything. The public media is precisely to collaborate in the dissemination of information also health, but when a Spanish television presenter says something and no one does anything, I wonder who asks the presenters for accounts and who asks the directors of the news and the content of the Spanish television. But it is true that the control of public television in both Spain and Galicia leaves much to be desired. There is a certain tolerance with this legitimation that we have just mentioned, even with a social acceptance of certain practices. I'm a scientist by training, but also by conviction. I don't like the "cards" on shift, I don't like Rajoy's cousin, I don't even — I'm a scientist — I like the priests in Sergas, but that's already the reason for another debate. There's also a legal problem, besides social issues. There's a health care management law. We can cite very briefly, in its Title I, the exercise of health professions, Article 4, general principles: "The exercise of a health profession, on its own behalf or otherwise, will require the possession of the corresponding official title which expressly enables it." Article 40 speaks of the modalities and general principles of the private exercise, and in point 3 of Article 40.3 of the control elements, which are quite explicitly cited. Royal Decree 1277/2003, of the general basis for the authorization of centres, specifically in Article 4 thereof, speaks of the requirements of centres, services and establishments. In Article 6, the identification of authorised health facilities, services and facilities. There is a fairly broad description of the needs, and it points out that the health authorities of the autonomous communities are the ones that will authorize the installation and operation of the centres. This legal basis complements itself even with some LNP that was brought here to this plenary, not long ago, about misleading advertising. This whole set says there's a legal basis but it doesn't apply. And not only does it apply, but, to our surprise, after bringing that PNL on deceptive advertising, we find that the Board's own Government has contributed to spreading problems and cases of health intrusion, with help from the autonomous institution itself, in the case of Igape, to professional Quiromasage-Riki offices that run people and practice people without any qualifications, to which no one has demanded any evidence, no official title, and have public help through programs, in this case, the Igape. Either it's a sheltered intrusion or an irregular economy, too. Therefore, we would like to be commented on, taking advantage of this interpellation, if you have any opinion on whether the self-government finances, through the programs to help entrepreneurs — a word in which, as we see it, it is entirely up to us — and helps professional cabinets that perform therapeutic treatments — as they quote — on the physical and emotional level — according to which they quote — without having a degree, or at least that we had found ourselves, of physiotherapy or psychology. So we think it's impossible to really defend a good legislation against intrusion when you help yourself and put money on the table to develop these kinds of supposed clinics that cheat. Because it's a very big legitimation that the Autonomous Administration covers, legalizes, and even helps financially to companies or entrepreneurs who do precisely work of health intrusion. Who's going to be suspicious that your health administration isn't watching who's helping? Even though, well, that's what we could think about in another moment. There is a legal basis, but it does not apply, as on other occasions. It's actually more about applying the existing than legislate. We have a relatively comfortable feeling: it's possible to change, but it's about applying a law that's not being applied. But, as I said, there's also a political plan. We reduce services, we close beds during the summer, we concentrate services in cities, we cut people off in public health, we have 2,500 professionals less since 2009 and we have one of the poorest health professionals ratios in Galicia with respect to the rest of Spain. Even today, the Education Councillor assumed to have the ratio of teachers per higher student in Spain. And I say, then someone will have to explain to me what is the assessment that in health we have one of the worst in Spain, even with the same dispersion, but with an added problem, that we have greater ageing of the population, so we should have especially better ratios, that we don't have. If you cut into research, there are 40% fewer R & D budgets since 2011 since the Government of the State that faithfully accompanies the Government of Galicia. They only accompany the Government of the State in which they should not. If public health is reduced, people usually, when they have a situation of difficulty, have to look for a way out. Normally, your exit is the promises to solve the problems, and you know how I do that, in the face of promises of resolution that health does not give them an answer, they sometimes have to go to, making mistakes, to professional assumptions that say they help them, but to whom no one else can ask them for accounts. They're not guilty, people who go, do, at least on most occasions. From our political position there is a legal basis but it doesn't apply, we don't know why, and we would like to know why; and we believe that it is necessary to work on elements of consciousness. More pedagogy, actually more science and less patience, which we see very patient to the Government of the United States with these problems. Even the things we know he's doing are tips he shouldn't give. So we do this interpellation, in which — as you know why it was presented — we ask you about the growing appearance and how you value this problem, growing from our point of view. If there are any measures planned to deal with it. If you have any idea the government of the board of directors of the fiscal problem, because we are primarily concerned about the health problem, but it's also a tax problem, because if you're evaluating that there are people who are supposed to cover treatments that don't therefore give us a tax problem. They're resorting to systems that they shouldn't or are not doing in many other cases. And we also see that there is help and money for programs or businesses that are born and are working in an environment that they are not allowed to work for. We wonder how it is possible for the Union to deal with problems of intrusion and illegality in tax matters. We also wonder if they know or have an estimate of people who may be assuming or participating in this kind of pseudoscience, by calling it somehow that it's not even quite right, that it would actually prove that they have some study or some idea about the subject. If we don't know how many people there are who might be out of the public system to solve that problem, then we have a problem. And finally, we wonder if you don't believe from the Government of Unity that the health problem in Galicia is contributing to increasing the use or practice of this kind of professional assumption, because Galicia is one of Spain's places where such practices are most developed, and we believe that, without being a 100 percent accurate guilt, it has to do with our health system not giving the necessary answers. In this sense, we wait for your answers and thank, of course, all the debate we can put forward in pro-positive terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u300	Good afternoon, Mr. President. First of all, I apologize to the President of the Bureau, to Mr Torrado and to the parliamentarians for my mistake, nothing more than mine, for being late. I'm really sorry. The scientific community recognizes as an academic-official medicine the one that bases its knowledge and its actions on scientific evidence. When practice separates from these foundations, whether by professionals or by people who do not have the corresponding title, we talk about pseudosciences or pseudotherapy. The consequences of these practices are different, but the most serious is that patients stop being treated scientifically and abandon established treatments. In order to avoid the proliferation of such pseudo-scientific practices, it is necessary to promote better education, including health care, adequate information and control mechanisms. I agree with the initial analysis that Mr. Torrado made, I think it's a pretty good description the first part, then the second part I'm no longer so happy. In this work we are involved both the health authorities and many other public and private bodies and institutions. It must be remembered that the practice of a profession without the title that enables it to be practiced is a crime. There was a moment ago on the subject of misleading advertising, which we are working on precisely that. Misleading advertising is basically practiced by people who have titration, but what you're presenting, what you're saying is not exactly reality, so intrusion is an even more serious point, because obviously there's no titration to be able to do these jobs. Here we must remember that the practice of a profession without the title — as I said before — is a crime. The Criminal Code provides in Article 403 that what conducts acts belonging to a profession without having the corresponding academic title recognised in Spain, in accordance with the applicable legislation, shall be punishable by a fine of 12 to 24 months. If the developed professional activity requires an official title to believe the necessary training and legally qualified for its exercise, and is not in possession of that title, it will be punished by a fine of 6 to 12 months. The Criminal Code therefore establishes the framework in which a health profession may or may not be practised, and that is as a result of the serious prejudices that can be caused to a person who uses the services of the intruder. The Law on the Management of Health Occupations, as Mr Torrado has said, provides that the exercise of a health profession, on its own behalf or otherwise, will require the possession of the corresponding official title which expressly enables it or, where appropriate, of the certification provided for in Article 2.4 of that Law. The Law on the Management of Health Occupations adds in its articulation that in order to ensure effectively and facilitate the exercise of the rights referred to in the previous paragraph, professional schools, autonomous professional college councils and general councils, in their respective territorial areas, shall establish public registers of professionals, which, according to the requirements of this law, shall be accessible to the population and shall be made available to health authorities. The records, in accordance with the principles of confidentiality of the personal data contained in the implementing legislation, shall enable them to know the name, title, specialty, place of practice and other data which are determined by this law as public. The best action can be taken is to inform the population of whom it is authorized to perform a health activity. This is the key issue to avoiding intrusion. Of course, the Health Administration must fulfil its responsibilities and pursue fraud in any case, since the law requires that the safety and quality assurances established in the public exercise of a profession apply to all private health activities. Adds this same law to public health administrations, in respect of professions and centres established in their geographical area, to ensure compliance with established guarantees, for which it may seek the collaboration of quality agencies or equivalent bodies, or of professional schools in the case of professional consultations. Professional schools are public corporations. That means they carry out activities that are parallel to the administration's activity, in addition to defending the professions. All the professional schools of health titrations have in their regulations to pursue the fraudulent exercise of the profession. For example, the statutes of the General Council of Official Colleges of Physicians, approved by Royal Decree 300/2016, set out in Article 2 on the functions of the General Council, to take the necessary measures to avoid unfair competition in the exercise of the profession among the different entities of the corporate organization, and to ensure the dignity and decor of the professional exercise and to denounce intrusism and clandestineness. Another example is the Statutes of the Official College of Pharmaceuticals of Pontevedra, for example, adopted by the Order of the Vice-Presidentship and Council of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice of 28th of 8th 2013, which provides that between the functions of the College it is to take measures to avoid professional intrusion. Another can be said of the statutes of other professional schools, of nursing, podologists, physiotherapists, etc. It is important to collaborate between counseling and professional schools, as they assume the role of defending legitimate interests in health professions. Recently, the Collective Medical Organization has made public the creation of an observatory to provide adequate information to the population and to avoid misleading situations related to intrusion and irresponsible advertising. The development of the health services inspectorate's own activities may be well on its own, well on its part, mainly from professional and private schools. If, as a result of the inspection activity, a situation of professional intrusion is detected, the relevant inspection record will be lifted and all follow-up actions will be transferred to the General Inspection, Audit and Accreditation Branch of Sanitary Services. Once this evaluation is carried out, the sanctioning procedure will be initiated or, if the case is the case, to your archive. In the event of referral of proceedings to the Prosecutor's Office, the administrative sanctioning procedure may be suspended. If this is not the case, the procedure will continue until the motion for a resolution. According to the information provided by the health services inspection services, 30 inspections related to this matter were carried out during the period 2015-2017. A hundred percent of the complaints received are handled in a timely and faithful manner by the inspection staff. We must underline that in February 2017 we received the resolution in the criminal trial instructed against the owner of a pedology center that was convicted of a crime of professional intrusion. Even so, the referral to the Prosecutor's Office and the proceedings are being evaluated. With regard to the human resources employed, any of the health service inspectors may perform such actions. Well, it's true that, after we open that file and put a sanction, it can happen and it happens that the person to whom that file was opened goes through ordinary justice, and months later there may be a favourable or unfavorable resolution. But to say that, too many times, when the facts are clearer and more serious, as is the case these days, it does not come directly to the Health Council or the Health Inspectorate, but directly the complaint puts the particular one in the police. There's a case that these days is in the press of a fake dentist, who today also says he's a fake taxi driver, who was denounced by the people who were obviously cheated. When this happens, which is a certain number — as Mr. Torrado well said — it is often the person who feels swindled to whom this complaint is filed directly to the police, and usually the police or the judge resorts to us, counsellors or professional schools, as I think it happened in this case, which went to the school of dentists. So from there, there's a case that has a penalty. Obviously, it will not be a sanction from the Health Council, but a penalty, in this case, by the corresponding judicial part, and that, as we said before, is a serious crime. So we cannot agree, we are against, absolutely contrary, any action of intrusion and we are prepared to act on it, but, as I say, it is a problem that affects society as a whole and it must be the whole of society that can put these cases on the table. And, of course, for nothing coincides with Mr. Torrado's view that it is due to the fact that the health service does not provide an answer. I believe that Mr. Torrado openly criticizes the Greek health system, and, however, I am convinced that he does not approach a beggar to solve his health problems. So one thing is one thing and another is another, I think it's different things. But, of course, the Council will continue to do what it has to do, which is to keep an eye on the review and to pay attention to any problem that may arise from intrusion, which to us is a crime and a serious crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u301	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor on his replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u302	Thank you, Mr. President. I — I will repeat a thousand times — do not criticize the health system, I criticize the management that you make of the health system. In fact, I believe deeply in this health system. [[Applause]] It was a socialist law that implanted universal health in this country. By the way, with your vote against, eh! With your vote against. In any case, we share some things. Like you said, some don't. And it's also true that from what I asked him more specifically, he didn't mention anything to me. His government has just protected, helped, covered, contributed even — he read it — they helped to define something as important as the rates of the therapeutic office. With this, which has done your government, they're helping, funding, offices that have therapist logos, which have therapist posters -- you have a cartel expert -- they have therapeutic cabinet posters, and they're not therapists. More importantly, we're in a situation of illegality, and I don't know why the Greek Government does and does nothing about it. The only thing he did, that's right — if you don't give me the answer, I'm telling him not to give it to me later, when I don't have more time to reply — was to reply on June 1, 2017 to a request from an official school that denounced the situation. Then they put the PNL on misleading advertising, but he answered — read in Spanish because they answered in Spanish — "At no time are they analyzed or evaluated the professional headings in which they are framed.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh You called a program, people competed, gave you some help, gave you help to do your job, but they don't analyze the professional headings on which they fit. From our point of view, it's not very appropriate to fund entrepreneurs if you don't know what you're funding, but well, that's our position, that's not their position, and therefore they're given these things, which finance people who are developing a problem of serious health intrusion. As I told you earlier, one of the most important legitimate elements is that the self-government itself finances companies that are doing a job for which they are not trained. If I, user, go to a private clinic that has permission, and that authorization or public aid, I see that it's from the Autonomic Administration, I trust, because users usually trust their administration, even from the Board sometimes. What's going on is they come up and have a certain assurance that they're going to work, health care, therapy, and they're not, and you're funding and helping. I don't know how much money it was. I wouldn't say I don't want to know, but actually I almost don't care about the amount. You either either did not filter or filtered that you didn't want to know. He didn't answer me about it and I think it's worrying. In any case, they helped them to count, calculate expenses, set tariffs, but they don't put themselves in the headings of the issues they touch. You'll tell me how you can't get into the professional headings and not evaluate the topics that these entrepreneurs are dealing with, but that's what you want to help, but, yes, help them make an accounting plan and set rates. They help establish business rates for those who say they don't know anything, which is surprising. The technicians who did it are heroes of the system. In any case, you say that deceptive advertising is basically based on jobs of people who have titration but who supposedly — I understand — invades other skills. We don't fully agree. There's a lot of publicity not necessarily advertised in the media. There's a lot of kinds of publicity from people who don't have a degree to do what they say. And it is done and exists because there is a shelter. As we insist, there is a legal basis, not to act, but to open your hand so that everyone can do it. If anyone knows that he can take advantage of the alien necessity and benefit greatly from it; if he is not able to do so, no one will give him any legal retaliation — as he says in any way — unfortunately there are many people able to do it. What we're defending is that this is illegal and, in addition, it's a much more serious problem than its own illegality itself and much more serious than the fiscal problem itself, because we're talking about health, and we demand that the self-government defend this problem and work to be able to develop the law. And you, too, I perceive, seem to place a lot of responsibility on official schools, and official schools, among other things, are also normally composed of people who develop there part of their time but are not professionals of schools. There's one case, but not always, therefore, it's the self-government itself that has to do that job. They don't discharge their responsibility for schools. They cover this legal problem and we work on awareness. I urge you to do the same. If we are defending that, as you say, we must work on scientific criteria, we will not be able to protect ourselves from the public media, nor have we — I know it is a lot to ask — presidents who speak of climate change as being unscientificly proven. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u303	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u304	No, of course we don't defend any anti-active speeches. I think Galicia has always set an example of a very responsible population, the difference in other countries, which is currently being considered to make vaccines compulsory. I think Galicia is in the balanced term. I mean, our population clearly defends vaccination, and our professionals; the system works and, therefore, we're not at it. But this advisor's powers don't reach Spanish TV, so he can decide on the comments he makes by one or another television host. Obviously, I don't share it for anything, but it doesn't come within my competences. And look, he took it out, he played a lot. It seems that this help that Igape gave, that you said here... you know that in many grants there is a responsible statement that the data given is true or not true. So, of course, for that they are, to review, and if there is any issue that is not met within a grant, because there will have to be action on it. I think that counts it as an anecdote, because it repeated it both in the first intervention and in the second, and little more contributed on cases. Obviously, as I said at the beginning, for us, it's a serious subject, an important subject, and we keep working because we understand it must be that way. But, look, I'm going to read an article from Professor Javier Cudeiro Mazaira, Professor of Physiology of the University of Coruña, director of the Centre for Brain Stimulation of Galicia, which, published a few days ago in La Voz de Galicia, says: "Responsibility, apart from staff, falls on each of the markets that sell smoke, is coral. It is up to scientists, unable to educate and disseminate well about what we do, about science subject to method, control, science itself, and that we have not been able to raise ourselves as a barrier to containment, separator scalpel, in the face of the outbreaks of disinformation concerned. It concerns scientific societies and professional colleges, which should show a more continuous and stronger vigilante attitude.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh shsh And he also points out to politicians, "who seem to ignore that pseudoscience is not only an alarming magician, but should be regarded as fraud, a social bad practice that can be pursued." I totally agree. I think you too. What we're saying is that there's a choral responsibility of some people, of associations, more than others, but obviously we're all there. And it also emphasizes — and I think it's important — that Charles Darwin said: "Ignorance generates confidence. The less you know, the more likely you are to create an expert. Conversely, the more you know, the more likely it is that you doubt your own competence, and that's where scientists fail." And the article ends — I think it's a very good article to be able to read — saying, "Friends, fight for science, spread science. They are science and culture.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh As I said in the first intervention, the Public Health System of Galicia is obviously set up by a number of guiding principles which must be highlighted, on the one hand, the quality of the service that is provided and, on the other hand, the accreditation and continuous evaluation of the services themselves. Quality is intended to provide safety in clinical care and in the organization of health services. And accreditation and evaluation are ultimately provided with facilities, facilities and services controlled and guaranteed by the Health Services Inspectorate. Finally, the Health Administration has established a scheme of permits for the operation of centres and the establishment of services which, when it becomes public, ensure that all persons are able to verify whether a particular facility has or does not have an authorization. The Health Council has published on its website the relationship of centres, establishments and services that are authorized, so anyone can at any time know the reality of a health centre. Sometimes reality is much more cloudy. The last case we said seems to be making tooth extractions on the public street. So, of course, there's no way to believe it or stop believing it. On the other hand, we said that the Health Services Inspectorate checks that the centres, establishments and services have this authorisation on an ongoing basis, also acting in cases where it is aware of the conduct of activities without adequate control. It is not possible to have data on the number of persons who use these services named in the question, but there is sufficient information so that anyone who wants it can know whether a health facility, establishment or service has health clearance. The efficiency of the public health system in Galicia is well known to users, so they demonstrate it in the surveys that are published. In any case, the improvement of quality and transparency objectives is a specific purpose of the Health Administration which contributes to increasing the confidence of the users of the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u305	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's go back to the questions. Question by Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to facilitate access of pemmes to public autonomic contracts, in particular in the area of cleaning services of buildings and places
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u306	To put the question, Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u307	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. On January 25 this year, the Resolution of January 3rd, of the Presidency Council, was published, so it was called upon by harmonised regulation to cleanse administrative and other buildings of the autonomous administration by open procedure. The estimated value of this contract was EUR 45,103,000, without batch division, and for a period of 24 months extendable for another maximum period equal to the contract. This data is an account of the magnitude of this invitation to tender. The deadline for the submission of tenders ended on 13 February, and at the beginning of this invitation to tender, Compostela Grupo Norte Cleanza, Junta de Galicia, had shown different situations which they considered to be irregular in this tender; in particular the lack of sufficient and correct labour information. On the other hand, the four provincial associations of cleaning entrepreneurs in the four provinces of Greece have already addressed you, Counsellor, on January 12th, to expose the serious damage that for the Greek pemmes a bid like this, presenting the associations, on January 25th, a special remedy in terms of recruitment for this macrocompetition to be re-aligned through its batch division. The non-division in batches of this type of tender is going on — as you know — European Union Directive 2014/24 of application, but it is even contrary to the Greek Law 14/2013 of 27 December 2013 of the restructuring of the public sector, which, as you know, indicates in Article 29.3: "When the object of a contract admits to fractionation, the independent realization of each of its parts will be sought through its division into lots". And if it is true that this appeal of business associations has been rejected by the Central Administrative Court of Contractual Resources on 3 March, when it considers the formal requirement in the case file for the justification of non-division in batches, it is no less certain that this mere formality should be conjugated with the necessary principle of opportunity, so that the actual, not only formal, participation of pemes in the procurement of self-government, as required both by European law and by Galicia itself. In fact, and on the basis of the previous considerations, the Presidency itself has seen the need to examine the terms of this invitation to tender, paralyzing the invitation to tender and having to refuse last June 9 to sign this contract for reasons of public interest exposed, and must also compensate the tenderers for the costs they incurred, in accordance with Article 155 of the Public Sector Contracts Act, for which the European Commission must also be informed. For these reasons and for the above reasons, we put the question, in order to know what measures is being taken or has been taken by the Government of Greece to facilitate the participation of pemmes in self-employed public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u309	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Villoslada, you recorded this urgent question in March. It must be that urgency was not there or came back suddenly, because now, in the month of July, when things changed a lot, he again remembers that this matter is important. It was important at that time and it's important now, at least for Galician Union. It was so important — and also for other parliamentary groups — that I have already answered a question about this particular which Mr Villares has asked me. At that moment your question — at the end of the day I think everyone is asking for it — was why we didn't want to contact the pemes or why the German Government wanted to harm the pemes. You ask what we're doing to favor you. I think that in the end, even if there are two different questions, the answer is exactly the same: I think we're doing a lot of things. Then in the replica, if I have a chance, we're talking about this specific contract. As you ask what we are doing to encourage the recruitment of pemes, many things for a long time, since 2010, practically since we arrived at the Galician Union, and some, by the way, with the opposition of the Socialist Group in this Parliament. In 2010, Mr. Villoslada, launched the Galician Public Contract Platform, where there is much more complete information than there was until that time, long before there were transparency regulations that required it, and this would allow everyone, but also small and medium-sized enterprises, who had more difficulty in accessing this information, to have real-time information on the tendering procedures open at the Galician Summit. That's the first thing. In 2013, 26 December, Law 14/2013, on the rationalization of the autonomous public sector, Article 29, first legal term expressed in an autonomous regulation. What had you done before? Yes. But no one had done it, nor the previous governments, including the Bipartite. This government has made it necessary to encourage and facilitate access to small and medium-sized enterprises in procurement procedures. You voted against this, by the way. Six months later we launched the Public Procurement Improvement Plan, in line with mandatory European directives, but long before it was necessary, and on July 7, 2016 the Council of the Galician Council approved the Guide for a public open-ended procurement. From here on, you can tell me: all this is regulation. What is translated into practice? So look, in 2016 — to give you the last year's contract date — in the Contract Register, there are 180 contracts associated with the cleaning service, since you refer to your question specifically to the cleaning service — we speak of this in particular in the reply, as I told you, if I have a chance. I repeat, a total of 172, of 180 — that is, almost 96% — had an amount of less than one million euros, which — you are sure you also know that — is the limit that pemes — small and medium-sized enterprises — put together to be able to bid. From there they make everything much more difficult. It's, therefore, almost 96%. The average amount of these contracts is, by the way, around 195,000 euros, which is even more accessible. So if you ask me what we are doing to encourage tendering and the possibility of adjudicating contracts to small and medium-sized businesses in Greece, I tell you that we legislate where no one had done it before and then we prove in practice that this legislation has an effect on 96% of the cleaning contracts — we speak of the cleaning sector. Less than a million euros; average price, less than 200.00 euros. I think this is legislate in theory...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u310	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u311	...we'll keep thinking that the laws are theory, and then apply them in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u312	Thank you very much. You have your turn for Mr. Díaz Villoslada's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u313	Yes, Counsellor, indeed, we will have already put the questions almost at the time of this invitation to tender, because both the affected works council and the business associations at the beginning of March, given the unsuccessful attempts to explain to its council the problem of this invitation to tender, gave rise to a number of initiatives. But I have to remind you that until 30 June last — four days ago, by saying it somehow — they have not responded, at least in writing, to these initiatives that we had previously presented. [[Applause]] It turns out that many initiatives they have taken are failing, on the one hand, to comply with their own contractual legislation on public services, Directive 2014/24, which also permits the luxury of failing to comply with their own legislation which you yourself have approved, as was mentioned earlier. In this sense, to me, more than knowing the chronology of this bid — that we have all known it and that, by the way, until June 9, we have been following the profile of the contractor, until we, the business associations, are sure that they definitely renounced this bid because they realized that they were radically wrong, because of a lot of audit they had to do externally — as I say, by many practices that they are saying to us that they are taking us forward, we, together with these contracts, have examples brought to this full, or brought to commission others at least we can qualify for bad practices, which is precisely what they are pointing us to be showing is that there is a bad way of contracting or leading forward to autonomic public procurement. We brought to this plenary the examples of the recruitment, precisely, of that preliminary consultation in order to be able to hire the air carriers of maritime rescue, after a tender of 40 million euros was left deserted on April 12. We have the examples — which we also mentioned at yesterday's meeting and in other initiatives — of those contracts of the Directorate-General for Mobility in the field of assistance and service contracts in the field of public passenger transport planning, firstly by favouring certain dominant positions of certain companies, or, without going further, those contracts in the field of emergencies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u314	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u315	...and civil protection; those responsible for civil protection of the Road Town Hall in absolute unsustainable situation of collision of interests and possible incompatibilities. They are not examples of good public procurement practices, Counsellor. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. Villoslada. You have the Government's reply to the vice president and chairlor, public administration and justice, Mr. Rueda Valenzuela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u317	Yes. Mr. Villoslada, look, the example of bad practices in public procurement was the 1.8 million euros that we found in deficit. There was no money in the 2009 budget to pay that year for the cleaning service you had given. By the way, in 2008, practically the same amount that originally came out of the 2017 contract, it helped the same company that later helped this government, but oh, by chance!, with many fewer centers to clean. It cost the same, but they cleaned less centers. Turns out it was good at that time to centralize, but then it's not good for us to centralize. I agree that it is not good for us to focus on certain causes, in certain circumstances neither we nor you. So what can't be is very good at some point. I suppose you agree that the Bipartite did it very well, but then it turns out that if we do it we're going to pay attention to bidding and hiring practices. By the way, you can't tell me, honestly, that we have breached the recruitment regulations and at the same time you have to recognize me, because another thing you can't do, that there was, as you said, an appeal to the Court of Contractual Resources and said that everything was okay. You say yes, that they said it was believed, because there was no division in lots, but yet we failed everything. Hey, what are we left with, what are we left with, Mr. Villoslada? Either we do things right or we do things wrong. That's what the resources are for, that's what the courts say, and if the courts pronounce themselves saying that things have been done well, because things are done well. Of course, if you're not worth it because you're not right, so you lose, in my opinion, quite consistent your speech. Hey, there's a resource, it was said that things were well done, and so it was. I could also tell you what the workers told you about the representativeness they were giving to the company committee, who went to talk to you. We could also talk about it, but in the end, I think what matters is the decisions that we make, and therefore, we actually rectified, because, as I explained here with all the transparency that is necessary, we decided to send you an external audit to see if it was possible to make that division in lots, although we are not doing — I insist — anything different than what you did and despite the fact that the Court of Contractual Resources gave the Board the reason by saying that things were well done. So this external audit concluded that it was possible to make a division into more than one lot, to make a division specifically into three lots, and that's what we're going to do. Tomorrow, the Council of Galicia Meeting will approve a new tender for this year 2017 of contract and cleaning divided into three lots. And I, frankly, am glad that this is the case and that this government is capable of having the ability to rectify without any problem, but making it clear — and if I cannot admit it — that we have complied with the law in any case, first, because a court has said it, and second because, if we have violated the law, you too have failed it, because you were doing the same with a difference: it was much more expensive, many fewer centers were cleaned up and we were left a puppet of a million and a half euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u318	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and ten other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the position of the Government of Galicia in relation to the creation of the Metropolitan Area of the Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u319	To put the question you have the floor Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u320	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President, good afternoon. The creation of a metropolitan area with the participation of municipalities around the city of Coruña has become a subject that repeatedly comes to public light every certain time. We could say that we have been talking about this for decades now as a possible solution to some of the problems in the urban area that do not find an easy solution within municipal competences and boundaries. He recently went back to the lecture, to politics, this subject, and some of the mayors, mayors and municipal politicians showed interest in returning this demand. Even the subject was discussed at the meeting that the Mayor of the Crown and the President of the Galician Union had in the Greek Parliament last February 6, showing both the willingness to continue talking about the subject and moving forward in his study. In this sense, one of the municipalities that could become part of this area had approvals in the full range of matters or motions in line to join this demand and request the Galician Board to initiate the necessary procedures for the creation of this metropolitan area, although in most cases these are motions rather than full agreements requiring Article 122 of Law 5/1997 of the local Galician Administration. If it is true that there is not until the unanimous moment of the councils or the same way of seeing this organism, if there are already a number of significant municipalities which have shown in one way or another the willingness to move forward in the creation of the area and demanded from the Board the beginning of the works; among others are The Coruña, Oleiros, Cambre, Culleredo, Carballo, Bergondo, Betanzos, Sada, Abegondo or Carral. In other municipalities it is also planned to process motions or declarations in a similar manner. Therefore, in view of the lack of consistency of these statements and the existing disorganization, which is prejudging a possible process by creating confusion on the subject, and taking into account the powers of this Parliament for the adoption of the law which it would create, the People's Parliamentary Group puts the following oral question in full: what is the position of the Government of Greece in relation to the creation of the Metropolitan Area of the Crown? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u322	Mr. Fernández Prado, we, the Galician Union, will be delighted that, if the Town Councils of the Coruña want to have a metropolitan area, collaborate, as we collaborate with the municipalities of the Vigo area so that there would be a metropolitan area in Vigo. [[Murmurs.]] It is true that there has been a meeting between the Mayor of the Crown and the President of the Galician Union, and that this has been discussed, just as there has been a meeting between the Mayor of Vigo and the President of the Galician Union, and that this has been discussed. The Galician Council fulfilled its share and passed the law, the problem was that then the Vigo Town Hall failed to meet what the metropolitan area said. The mayor of Vigo — more than a court— stopped him and we're just like we are. But I hope that this will be solved, just like, if you do a metropolitan area in Coruña, you can also go ahead. Total collaboration and total disposition of the Galician Union. It is indeed the competence of this Parliament to approve, in its own case, the law, but it is also the competence and obligation of the Council of Galicia, if so requested by the future councils of this metropolitan area of the Coruña, to offer its collaboration, to offer all experience accumulated during these years with the former metropolitan area and, therefore, to give it forward to this matter, yes, with absolute and strict respect to municipal autonomy. So we've always said this: the metropolitan area is just a very qualified, very powerful situation with a lot of possibilities, with a lot of future. If you want to study this future, especially the city is called to lead it, but in the end it's a decision, it's an exclusive competition from the municipalities, at least the initiative for its creation. So we wait. Indeed, there have been movements, there have been public demonstrations. You would refer to that meeting between the President of the Board and the Mayor of the Crown, but also to other potential municipalities in this area, in the sense that it is constituted and that it is given to the work ahead. We therefore hope that this will will be expressed. It is true that we must also determine the scope and it is true that in this so-called Declaration of Mary Pita there were a number of integral municipalities. Then there is another possible territorial base, the municipalities that integrate the Marine Consortium, and then there are those that are also integrated into the Metropolitan Transport Plan throughout the Coruña area, which is the fundamental competition. There are others, of course, that we always defend, like the one that binds, to which makes sense and to which a whole metropolitan area is structured, and therefore they could be potential members of this area. It's the municipalities that have to decide. Galician union will be waiting. Total collaboration. And what I can tell you, and I say to you in this Parliament, is that we have an express constancy and an express manifestation - understanding that through the corresponding plenary statements - of the councils that want to be comprehensive, with an objective basis, fulfilling what the Local Administration Law says, as a necessary requirement to form part of a metropolitan area, the Galician Union will be at the height, the Galician Union will work carefully with these councils and the Galician Union will offer its loyalty to achieve an objective. Then it will be — and I will return to Vigo's case and to the attitude of the mayor of Vigo — the responsibility of everyone to explain why things don't go forward when everything's done right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u323	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u324	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President for the explanation and clarity, especially in two aspects: on the one hand, the willingness of the Government of Greece to promote the constitution of this metropolitan area, because we understand that the participation of the Union is essential, and also thanks to that explicit reference to the subject of transport, which we also understand from the People's Group that must be an angular part of this project. As I said in the question, in the explanation of the question, I think this time it didn't start in the best way possible. You spoke of consensus, participation and dialogue. I don't think it was exactly a model of these things. We're still in time to recover it, in my modest opinion, and we believe that, in this case, on the contrary, it's being used, perhaps like a smoke curtain many times to cover up some topic. Every time there is a lost vote, this issue appears in the Town Hall of Coruña, but we understand that we can continue to move on with that legal rigor and seriously and not, as I said, with announcements, photos, propaganda, but without those contents, which is what we are seeing so far. We also think that in this consensus it is necessary for everyone to participate: assembly, councils, civil society... citizenship in general. Obviously, we would like that consensus to be broader than that statement by Mary Pita that you have spoken about, because it does not, of course, have any legal or administrative value; and political we understand that quite little, because not even the councils that form the Consortium have signed it, only seven, and it has not even managed to obtain the absolute majority in the Full of the Crown, the central city of this possible metropolitan area. We therefore share that it is an important issue and that it must work with consensus, we thank that commitment of the Union to participate, if there is such a prior consensus and the will of the Councils, and we understand and we want to make it clear that in this group we do not believe that we should try to capitalize on some mayor who is unable to manage his own city or to want to manage the powers of the others or the powers of the Union or Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. You have the floor, for the Government's reply, the Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u326	Mr. Fernández Prado, I insist that here is the Council of Galicia, and I make this offer where I think it has to be done, where the bill will finally come from, if we all do things well, so that from the very beginning not only the experience of the Galician Council technicians, who together with the technicians of the various municipalities will work in the drafting of the law, but above all, as a government, the request for political consensus and that all those councils that feel connected in one way or another to the metropolitan area here have their opportunity to manifest this will and to address the Council of Galicia so that we start this process, which is a long process, which is a complex process, but which is a process that can have a satisfactory end. I insist that the only thing that would be necessary — because this requires the law — is that there is a binding that objectively gives the reason for all those municipalities that want to be integrated into the metropolitan area, into the Local Administration Act, to be part of this urban conurbation in order to be recipients of services for potential powers, to be able to improve them, to lower their rates, so that they are better served; in short, for people to perceive that the metropolitan area is really useful, as we think from the Galician Union, and that it is managed without personalism and non-compliant — I insist, as it happened in the prevailing area by the mayor, not the Vigo Council — the commitments acquired. The metropolitan area can have a future, anywhere, and of course in the Vigo Metropolitan Area and of course in the Coruña Metropolitan Area. So welcome be this interest expressed by many municipalities. On the part of the Galician Union, simply that requirement of consensus, of having any common link. I insist that the structure of the basic transport service can be a great starting point for setting up, so to speak, an objective audience, instead of municipalities that could integrate the metropolitan area. It depends on the municipal autonomy of each council, it depends on the will of all the municipal groups, because I believe that in the process of elaboration all the municipal groups will have to be, and it does not have to lead it to any particular group, nor even the group of government in each council, which there is at all, because there could be many councils, but that will, if I do not unite, if most of the political groups that integrate the different councils, will indeed be the key of vault that can lead forward to the Metropolitan Area of Coruña. We are faced with a great opportunity and the Galician Union cannot, but to be there, try to stay up to date — that I am sure we will be —. And I want to say that if this great project goes ahead it will be because the Galician Union offered all its collaboration, but above all because the municipalities, all the municipalities — each in its role and according to its dimension — wanted to carry forward a project that could have far-reaching future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u327	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's move on to the next question. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, on the position to be adopted by the Government of Greece in connection with the proposals for urban action in Lineurinos, in Vigo City Hall
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u328	To put the question, Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, the reason to present this question by way of urgency is the announcement made last week that the partnership promoting the development of a complex, supposedly of a leisure and business character in the neighbouring mountain of Porto Cabral, in the field of Lineirinos, is announced and directly interpeles its declaration of supra-municipal interest for its development. What's the story? The story is known, well known in Vigo. It was a plot of land coveted by an investment fund, by Eurofund, which sought the transformation of more than 300,000 square feet of neighboring mountain that until then had a rustic nature and that were being dedicated by the neighbors to purposes according to that rustic nature, for its transformation and speculation into a center of commercial and leisure character. At the time, during the so-called "cabral spring", the neighborhood prevented this transformation, prevented this intended use of speculation and which radically attacked the values that constituted that neighboring mountain. It was, on the other hand, an uncertain project that never came to account for the terms that it consisted of, neither of business development, nor of the revenues that it would have for the community as a whole, and much less for the city of Vigo as a whole. This situation was frustrated by the cancellation of the PXOM in 2015. However, new uncertainties have come about both once the Land Law was amended in 2016 and later in the 2017 Budget Accompanying Act also in urban matters. What's the problem that lies behind all this? First of all, a neighbouring mountain that houses a number of values, of environmental values, of forest values, of service to the community and which are consistent with its rustic nature, and therefore not susceptible to its transformation to any other kind of land use, whether residential or industrial or business. Secondly, this is a communal mountain. Neighboring mountains are a type of specific mountain ownership of our country, of a private but collective nature, which serves the community as a whole; they are not likely to be owned by either party nor are they likely to alienate third parties. They're inalienable goods. Why? Because they serve the general interest of the community in which they are enclaved. And thirdly, because we understand that there is no kind of general interest — and this is also demonstrated by the Communards at most in the assembly — in the transformation of these lands, and there is no general interest of a business nature, or even of a work character, that justifies this transformation. And we say this for two reasons: firstly, because the local trade in Vigo is currently saturated with the supply of large surfaces and because in recent years it has shut down a small and medium-sized trade, firstly, because of the crisis and, secondly, because of the proliferation of large surfaces. The fact that there are some today also projected, as in the case of Adif in Urzáiz, makes it especially inhibited the search for a soil transformation for the implantation of a new large surface, as it seems to be that these are the targets that are being sought here. Therefore, in the face of this announcement of a quest for the complicity of the Board for the establishment of this declaration of supra-municipal incidence of the Lineriños project, the question to the Government is clear: what will its position be? Will they defend the values of the neighboring mountain in common hand of rustic character...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u330	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u331	...or, on the contrary, will they allow the speculative use of the mountain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, this government will always be with legality and with general interest. You bring here your policy of veto, of veto to Galicia, of veto to economics and, unfortunately, of veto to Vigo. And it surprises us; we are surprised because we don't understand that position of confrontation towards this city, when Vigo needed concrete solutions for projects that were fundamental to his economy, as was the case with Citroën, which you voted against. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And now that you are debating another project you already want to move ahead and you want to veto, and you want to veto, Your Honor, the powers of the Town Hall itself, because, as you well know, the competition to order and decide on planning within your territory is the Town Hall. And, therefore, the Council is what it has to decide, indeed, on that public utility, on that public interest and, therefore, on land planning. And the Town Hall, through its mayor, has already spoken and said that it would actually push a change of the General Plan. The Galician Union, Mr. Villares, will be with the Vigo Town Hall. And, therefore, since the Vigo Council proposes a modification of the General Plan and through that amendment of the General Plan, logically, it guarantees public interest and public utility, because logically, the Galician Council already says it will be with the Vigo Council and it will be with Vigo. So, Mr. Villares, I don't think this is the place to twist reality and twist urban legislation; it may be that other places where you intervene are appropriate, but I believe that Parliament, frankly, does not. Parliament must refer, as you know, to legislation and legality. And from an urban point of view, the legality of any project you're talking about perfectly knows that it is guaranteed through the General Plan of Municipal Management and that what you have the competence to order this territorial area is the Town Hall, and therefore as the Town Hall proposes an amendment of that general plan, logically the Union will be with Vigo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u334	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the turn, for the reply, Mr. Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u335	Maybe I didn't explain myself well or maybe you didn't want to understand well. The initiative that motivates this urgent question is precisely that it will call upon the Board to declare the supra-municipal character, of supra-municipal interest. Supremeicipal means that whoever is going to compete for that approval is going to be the Council of Galicia, not the Council of Vigo, if not, that declaration of supramunipality would not be necessary. I think you understand yourself quite well. Yes or no, Counselor? Well, that's why we're here this second round, so that you understand it better, because the interpellation is to the Union, because the interpellation of the initiative itself is to the Council of Galicia, not to the Vigo Council, that's why we went to the German Government. [[Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry Adviser, Count López, speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's why, because we're talking about urbanism, but we're talking about urbanism in relation to a declaration of supra-municipal incidence with whom you have the competences, which you are, if not, would direct us directly to the Vigo Council and that initiative would be addressed to the Vigo Council and not to the Galician Union. And that's why we're asking here today, first of all. Secondly, in relation to the urban regulations and the PXOM which actually establishes is the land use, I have to remind you that Vigo's PXOM has been cancelled since 2015. So there's no PXOM, and because there's no PXOM and that PXOM was what you wanted to use for the development of this Linehin macrocenter, that's why the situation is like it is. It is therefore necessary for the competent authorities in the field to protect the values that are worthy of protection in the case of Porto Cabral. As regards forest values, values according to their rustic nature, the Galician Land Law — which you approved in 2016 — refers to sectoral legislation and also refers to the competent authorities, in this case to the branch council, in order to protect those values according to the qualification of the values that the soil has. That, first of all. Secondly, in relation to the lands that are part of the neighboring mountains in common, the Rural Middle Council is also commissioned for the specific guardianship of the values that collect those neighboring mountains, and that is why we are also asking you. Therefore, competences, surplus. The values of the neighboring mountain in common hand and of the municipalities in Porto Cabral, which have already expressed in their action, held in time, on the other hand, which has been called "cabral spring", are also clear. The only thing that's not clear, or it looks like yes, is which one...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u336	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u337	...—yes, finished—is the attitude of the Galician Union: to be on the side of speculation or to be on the side of the protection of environmental values and rustic values that citizenship, in this case expressed through the municipalities and municipalities of Porto Cabral, has repeatedly expressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. You have the floor, for the Government's reply, the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, what is clear is that you are not with Vigo and what is very clear is that this government is with Vigo. That's the difference between you and this government. [[Applause]] Look, the German Government — since the Town Hall has already been pronounced — fully coincides with the Vigo Council in the sense that an amendment to the Municipal General Management Plan adapted to the existing environmental and urban legality would certainly be the only instrument that could provide security and legal stability for this initiative. So I think I'm answering very clearly. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] From then on, logically, a project of these characteristics will be viable as soon as the Vigo Town Hall introduces a timely change to the Municipal Management General Plan. I see that from an urban point of view, you don't have much knowledge. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Unfortunately, what I move you to do is to study the rules a little bit and you'll see that, in fact, the competence... to order and decide on planning, within the territorial scope of a council, has it itself. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You know it perfectly well. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] So from there, I think I'm moving this government to match the Vigo Town Hall. I see you don't agree very well with the Vigo Town Hall, which is fine and should transfer it, through your municipal group, to the Town Hall itself. Together has already moved to the Town Hall, logically, the decision to be able to cooperate with it both in any kind of timely modification of the General Urban Management Plan as well as in the development of a new PXOM, and logically the Galician Union will always be in the solution and never in the trouble. You are in the veto; we are, Mr. Villares, in the solution. As for that project, logically, the Board will speak at the moment when an autonomous commercial authorization can be sought, which is when it has the powers. And, therefore, we will now believe that urban, social or environmental viability. Therefore, Mr. Villares, the competences in this field are clear. The powers, logically, hold the council and, logically, the Union of Galicia will be with the Council of Vigo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u340	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Murmurs.]] Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and five other Members of the G.P. Most popular in Galicia, about the evaluation by the Health Council and the Galego Health Service of the implementation of the Ictus Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u341	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u342	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, the disease of the stroke affects every year in Galicia — according to data from the Galician Society of Neurology — some 7,000 people, with varying degrees of intensity and severity. It occupies the first place between the causes of mortality in women and the second in men. The impact of stroke on the family, on the professional field, on work and on social life is very high. It also has a high morbidity and is the main cause of permanent disability in adulthood and the second type of dementia, in addition to high social and health costs. In the evolution of this pathology, first of all, its recognition, making an early diagnosis, as soon as possible, so that once the problem is recognized and diagnosed, if the treatment is done correctly. Early diagnosis of the disease is essential for its treatment. In the past, the Galician Health Service implemented the Ictus Plan in the autonomous community with the aim of improving accessibility, health care, reducing delays in time of diagnosis and thus increasing the diagnostic and therapeutic quality. So we know, the purpose of the plan is to provide neurological attention to patients who suffer from stroke, quality care with the greatest possible resolution capacity. For all this we would like to know what the Health Council and the Galician Health Service are and how it values the first results following the implementation of the Ictus Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u343	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u344	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Doctor Friend. The truth is, yes, that the data given by Dr. Friend is true and worrying in a Western society where sometimes we have the idea that cancer is the first cause of death and actually sleeps cardiovascular disease, and, specifically, stroke. There are two types of strokes: hemorrhagic and ischemic. And what we're dealing with and we can deal with right now with invasive techniques, techniques that can change our morbidity and mortality, are the ischemics, because we saw that a year or a year ago and peak, that we had to try to change. What we've already done years ago in cardiology, we wanted to implant it into neurology, an organ, the brain, which is fundamental and which, logically, is much more sensitive even than the heart; the lack of blood water. And that's why we proposed the implementation of the Ictus Plan, where one of the objectives was to organize a model based on the cooperation of the various services and levels of assistance in a single area throughout Galicia. I think one of the most important changes we are making right now is coordination between the entire territory of Greece so that there is equity and accessibility, so that any citizen of Galicia, no matter where he lives, can receive the best treatment. There was a previous experience at the Santiago Clinic Hospital with the Barbanza Hospital, which, logically, served us to develop this activity. But on June 4, 2016, we decided to do it for all of Galicia and we also implemented something new — which indicates this coordination — we created the Ictus Care Center — the CAI — which is a center where the person responsible is a neurologist for all of Galicia. He's responsible for the different Eoxi, which at that time analyzes the case that usually comes through 061, hospitals or TACs, to make a decision that is equivalent. From there it is sent to an emergency service, a series of tests are carried out, a videoconferencing scan, which can be supervised by this neurologist, and a TAC that gives us the difference between ischemic and hemorrhagic. From that point on, the decision is made what needs to be done. It may not be doing anything because it's been an excessive amount of time. And if possible, you can do a fibrinolysis, which can be done in any of the hospitals in Greece, or you can derive from an interventional radiology center where, as I say, thrombectomy is performed, which is equivalent to what we do with the placement even of stents in cardiology. I think it's a very important advance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u345	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u346	...with three large units, of which is interventional cardiology—the Coruña, Santiago and Vigo—but, as I say, what I am looking for is that everyone has the same treatment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u347	Thank you very much, Counselor. The reply has the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u348	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your broad answer. We see that the creation of the Ictus Care Centre, within the Galego Health Service, where we — as we have heard — organized a model based on the cooperation of the various services and levels of care and where an expert neurologist in stroke provides support to an optional hospital, whenever requested by it, is an important step forward in the development of telemedicine tools, of which Galicia is one of the leading communities in Spain and supposes for health another important resource coordination work, both from 061 to primary or hospital care. According to us, the purpose of the plan is to provide neurological attention to patients who suffer from stroke, just as it told us earlier that it happened with patients with myocardial infarction; quality care and with the highest resolution capacity possible. To this end, it is based on the resources available in the various health areas, establishing a system through the use of new technologies, so important in our public health. Can you tell us how many consultations were conducted this first year after the beginning of the Ictus Plan and which centers, within our community, are the ones that require most of these services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u349	Thank you very much, Mrs. Friend. You have the turn, for the Government's reply, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u350	Thank you very much, President. The truth is it's a complex subject because there was a training plan for over 150 people. A Ictus Log was also created; that is, we're not only doing actions about patients but also seeing the results, analyzing, just like we did with myocardial infarction, so to take normal improvement considerations in any case to reduce response times. See, the number of interconsultations performed by the Ictus Care Center professionals was 909 interventions in the first year, which means an average of 75 interconsultations per month; i.e. the neurologist, who is located and prepared to respond, had this number, almost 1,000 interventions in the first year. The hospitals that most resort to local coordination are comarcaal hospitals: the one of Barbados, 205 times—which, as I said, was also, like the Santiago Clinic, where this first pilot project had begun—; the boat, with 198; the Salnés, with 165; the Virgin of Shanghai, with 133; Monforte, with 125; the poison, with 40; and the Marine Hospital, with 5. It's a sample of the effectiveness of CAI and, as I say, it goes through the entire area of Galicia, trying to respond to any kind of patient. In relation to transfers from hospital to stroke units, a total of 118 transfers have been made during these 12 months. The largest number of transfers was carried out by the University Complex of Ferrol, with 37; followed by that of Barbanza, with 19; do do Salnés, with 19; do de Monforte, with 9; and de Pontevedra, with 9. The CHUAC, 7; the Virgin of Junqueira, 5; the Álvaro Cunqueiro, 4; the HULA, 3; the CHOU, of Ourense, 3; the Hospital of the Coast, 2; and Verín, 1. The transfer to hospitals of stroke units as a unique area for all of Galicia is also an important improvement, as it allows us to make more efficient use of Sergas's available resources. The neurologist, as we said, decides in real time where to direct the person, because it may happen that a person is in transit or is in a situation where one of these units cannot deal with it because it's responding to the other and drawing it closer. It's coordination, as I say, in real time. The total number of cactus code activated during the first year of the existence of this Welsh plan is 2,237 patients. The intravenous fibrinolysiss — that is, this first treatment that can be given at any one of our centers — went to a total of 418 patients and the mechanical thrombectomy performed in these three units is 128. So we believe that this first year — which is a first year where we have given information to the population to recognize what is an stroke — is beginning to bear fruit. And these people, above all, clearly, the 128 of thrombectomy, can go through a death or disease with an important tetraplexity, to have a normal life, like any one of us. That's why I think, frankly, that we're going to get better with the Register, but the line is the right one, coordinating all the services for the Greek population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u351	Thank you very much, Counselor. We turn to the following questions, which are accumulating for the purpose of the debate. These are the questions of Government Nos. 6 and 7, in the light of Article 159. Question from Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia regarding the restoration of the Pediatric Surgery Service twenty-four hours a day, throughout the year, at the University Hospital Complex of Ourense Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of Galician Union in relation to the care of pediatric surgery in Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u352	Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez, first of all, has the floor to make the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u353	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen, and very good afternoon also for you, Counselor Until September 2013, there was in the Hospital Complex of Ourense a total of 3 pediatric surgeons for the 30,000 children from all over the province. And I say until September because from there the retirement of one of them and the transfer at the request of the other left us all over the province with a surgeon for a total population — I repeat — of 30,000 children and children. When minors in Ourense get sick and have to operate out of the time that the Galician Union considers fit for that; that is, Monday and Friday morning. What they have to do is move them and their families to Vigo. That is, where there was a service, the Galician Junta which created was a bundle of problems: it compromised the prognosis of pathologies, increasing the risk of displacement by road, that is, parents and mothers who have to travel in some cases more than 200 kilometers since, for example, the towns of Viana do Bolo, Mezquita or Carballeda de Valdeorras; it hampered the reconciliation of parents and mothers, who have to enter their children and children in the Vigo Hospital Complex, as well as make them face the economic costs of displacement and stay in some cases also in another city or other province; it left without the assistance of minors who are entering, who have already been operated; it diminished the training of residents; and increased the waiting lists of operations that are not urgent. About 100 children are waiting to be operated right now in Ourense. This situation, this disgruntling of the Galician Union, which generated all these measures, which the PSdeG did not say, announced it and predicted it by the people's own valet in the report of 2013. What she predicted was, unfortunately, fulfilled, and the Public Health Platform will now turn — and we, the PSdEG, with it — both to the Public Prosecutor's Office and to the People's Valley. We're going to appeal because it's clear to you that we can't count, at least until we understand. Because on May 11 the People's Party voted against a Socialist Party's PNL to restore this service, and today I want to ask you whether there has been any change in position, since, according to my colleagues in the Council of Ourense, the initiative they presented to urge the Council of Galicia, in this case in July, the People's Party voted in favour. And, of course, you have to forgive me, Counsellor, but this honourable Member and this group are opposed, since the mayor of Ourense was a member of the Government of Galicia when this service was abolished. With which, the question is clear: is there any kind of change in the position regarding the Pediatric Surgery Service in the Ourense Hospital Complex? And nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u354	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. To put the accumulated question, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u355	Counsellor, I imagine you know -- if you live on this planet -- that Ourense is a city, it's a province, it's a real population sanctuaries. I understand that it should be part of the duties of the public authorities to do everything possible to correct this situation. But you, honestly, seem to have as their strategy to walk in the absolute opposite direction. When we talk about health, we talk about a fundamental pillar for any society, we talk about people's health and lives. But in this case it's even more serious, because when we talk to him about pediatric surgery, we're talking about children and children of our society, about the most vulnerable people, and about what we all should watch. I don't know if it seems to you that we can encourage population fixing and that people have children in this latitude in our country when they can't even be guaranteed attention to any circumstances at any time of year and any time of day, as we understand that it should be an elementary service like pediatric surgery. Mr. Counselor, we really don't ask for the moon. The only thing that we ask for is a 24-hour service a day, 365 days a year, as there was before 2013; a moment when you decided to apply one of these euphemisms that use in the cutout of public services and establish a shared service area for the southern part of Galicia. That decision I don't know if you're aware of what it means in practice. In practice, many Ourense families are supposed to move to Vigo. But it's just, look, between Ourense and Vigo there's about 100 kilometers, an hour and ten or a quarter of a car, but this assumes that somebody can use a particular car. In case one day like today, with a transport strike, they decide to go by bus is not possible. But they're trying to get from the city to Vigo by train. The situation isn't much simpler. What I bring you are today's train schedules. As you could see if deep into this, there are only two hourly and peak regions that are absolutely incompatible in terms of hours and then there are lots of trains that send the ores to Santiago and which cost more than 20 and 25 euros. You'll tell me what family can afford, with wages in Ourense, 50 euros for going to see your sons and daughters at the hospital. Now imagine this situation in someone from the boat of Valdeorras: 212 kilometers, two and a half hours by car, the only alternative; of Xinzo: 140 kilometers, hour and a half, car, the only alternative. Finally, this situation on his day has already been sued by opposition groups, even the People's Valedor gave reason to this situation that four years later only made it worse. We know from families and professionals that the situation has been the worst, there are late surgeries, there are days when in Ourense there are no professionals of pediatric surgery, there are expired preoperatives and waiting lists that do not comply with legal standards. To such an extent that, as has already been said here, the families and many political parties came to the U.S. Attorney's Office to make this right. And I ask him, why are the children of Ourense, Valdeorras, Viana, Xinzo, Cualedro...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u356	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u357	...they're Germans and second-degree? And what will your government do to correct this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u358	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. The health counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u359	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is I have heard about almost anything less than the quality of service to Ourense boys and girls. They talked about the train, they talked about conciliation, they talked about a lot of things, but really, most importantly, about the health service, about the quality of the health service, they didn't talk about it. And I think it's important to talk because demagogy is easy to take it in this Chamber, but it's not really like that. See, since November 2013, the Shared Service Area of Southern Galician Pediatric Surgery has been formed, so the assistance of pediatric surgery is guaranteed with more means and better organization. In 2000 — ten years ago — in Ourense province there were 36,562 children under the age of 15, and this year the census collects 30,800, a decrease of 15.7% of children. At this point, Ourense is the sixth by frequency and number of children with respect to the seven EOXI of Galicia; from seven, to the sixth that fewer children have. It's a date to be taken into account. The CHOU Paediatric Surgery section records a scheduled and urgent surgical activity of 200 annual interventions — 186 last year 2016 — which represents the practical whole of the surgical demand for consultations. In 2014 and 2016 563 interventions and 3,249 consultations were held. To assume this activity until last February, CHOU had two full-time pediatric surgeons, with the support of the urology and General Surgery services. From the age of seven, they were intervened by the services of General Urology and Surgery, and the little ones were derived by their special complexity. With the transfer of one of them on his own request since last March, he has one specialist. It's a voluntary matter. We can't tie specialists to a specific place. They have mobility possibilities and, logically, it's a right that professionals have. With the collaboration of the Vigo Paediatric Surgery Service last day 21 the intervention of pediatric surgery was resumed directly in the CHOU. In addition, an active search continued to hire a more pediatric surgeon, but there are very few specialists and none of them were available. The irrevocable goal of the Chief of the Integrated Management Administration of the Sergas de Ourense maintains in CHOU this service in an integral and self-resolved manner, so it will exploit all those options possible to prevent the transfer of Ourense boys to another province to be intervened. So, to maintain a quality and safe service in Ourense, ensuring that professionals perform the necessary activity, we create the service shared with Vigo. In Ourense, all the activity that can be done with quality and safety criteria is carried out, which means 100% of the planned activity and most of the urgency. Therefore, the creation of this area makes it possible to add the resources of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense and the University Complex of Vigo to meet the children of their areas with a quality and safe service. With this modality, one responds to the needs of Ourense professionals to expand the casuistic and diagnostic and surgical variability that they serve and make it possible to meet the rates of volume and safety, as they increase their hours of surgery. With these measures, the Integrated Management Administration of Ourense considers and evaluates the information in the Report prepared by the People's Valator on the creation of this area and projects to continue working on its development and further improves, allowing the device to contribute to enhancing the overall quality of the pediatric surgery services in southern Galicia. But surgeons, any surgeon and especially pediatricians, need to have a significant number of interventions per year. If they don't do interventions, logically they're not able to do it. And, in fact, for many years many Greek children had to derive from other centres in Spain — from Madrid, Barcelona — seeking the safety and quality of the service. So what we have to give is a quality and safe service for our children, and that's what we're trying to do. And, as I said before, there are other areas with more children than Ourense that have no pediatric surgery, but they have a clear reference, and they know how and when they're going to intervene. By the way, we have two CSURs in the Coruña, which are reference centers at the national level, specifically, the reference center for Child Traumatology, to which children from all over Spain can come. This is not a demerit for anyone but we have people who have a sufficient number of children to have the experience, which the surgeons call "hands with extraordinary quality": infant orthopaedics and comprehensive infant care with congenital cardiopathy of the child and complex congenital heart disease. In addition, we have another CSUR unit reference for the whole of Spain also in congenital metabolic diseases here at the Santiago Clinic. So what we have to give children, girls and any citizen of Galicia is a quality medical service. If possible, of course, we have to locate it where it can be; but when numbers, frequency and indications do not make it possible, we will take it to the nearest place, always looking for it to be within our territory. But if anyone has to go outside to improve the final result, of course we're going to keep doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u360	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor for the reply, first of all, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u361	Thank you very much, President. We agree with you, Counselor, that the quality of service is of utmost importance. What we find worrying about is hearing, saying and putting aside a member of the Government the importance of conciliation. In the 21st century, in the year 2017, a member of the German Government gave an understanding and saying that conciliation is not important! At least, Counselor, please conceal a little bit. [[Applause]] You said you've reduced the population by 15.7% among those under 14 years of age. It's an irrefutable fact. I agree with you, of course I do. But, of course, then, what we didn't know is that what they're doing is punishing us, is putting against the wall the province of Ourense and its citizenship for having a serious demographic problem. That's what the German Government is doing, and it looks like a lie and it looks incredible where it was going to be the legislation of the countryside, Counsellor. He spoke of the Coruña, and we want to talk today about the Coruña too, and why the children in Ourense province are playing in the third region about this province, because in Coruña there are 1 pediatric surgeon every 4,000 and in Ourense there are 1 every 30,000, Counsellor; with which there is a certain, clear discrimination, in the rural environment. You once again committed fraud to the institutions and fraud to the citizenry. He voted in the Council of Ourense his party in favor of pediatric surgery 24 hours and here, against. They're laughing at citizenship, they're exasperating institutions, and they're taking their hair off all of them. It is no wonder to this honourable Member, and it is not strange to this group that a mayor who has approved — I repeat, being a member of the Government — that measure, which currently hangs on a thread in the Council of Ourense and which is very close to being outside of it, will not dare to vote against such a measure as the Socialist Group put on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u362	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u363	The Socialist Group, Counselor, will continue to fight and fight, along with the platform, with that campaign that started four years ago, where a girl asked her mother, "Mother, why did they bring me to Vigo?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Ourense's kids keep asking him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u364	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u365	And we'll do it so they won't ask anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u366	Quiet. Listen to who's using the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u367	They're not numbers, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u368	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u369	...they're people. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u370	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. You have the floor, for the replica shift, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u371	Well, I was worried because it seems that definitely the health adviser lives on another planet, but, as colleagues from the People's Party bench are apologizing, because I see that it's completely extensible to everyone. [[Applause]] Well, he's got a tough face to tell us we're not talking about quality because, of course, it's nothing like quality or has anything to do with the quality of talking about having to go two hours and peak by car and spend more than 50-60 euros on transport to see your child, in case you need it. I, of course, have no children or daughters, fortunately... but I don't want to imagine what the situation is with any mother or father who has to go through this situation, considering also how the economic situation in our province is. [[Murmurs.]] Actually, I only ask you one thing: when you come here to answer us, don't take our hair. What are missing specialists, who can't tie them? They can't bind them, logically, but what they can do is create conditions for pediatric surgeons today to want to come and form Ourense. Because, of course, nowadays it's very normal they don't want to do it, of course! And you're right to rotate specialists and not patients when it suits them, which is what they do with other health specialties among the three hospitals in the province, or not? And you're right that you have the ability to ask for more MIR training places for this specialty, or not? Or yesterday, for example, that we approved a budgetary change — I would like to remind you — an extension of 228 million, what can you suppose with that count for an administration the creation of two or three more jobs? It doesn't suppose anything, it happens that they don't care what happens to children and children in Ourense province, and because we're the last thing you think of in this country, because they haven't planned to do anything. But of course, I think that 30,969 children and girls throughout the province, 12,870 in the city, is to think about it; and it's to think about it even more when we intend to sell that you have the demographic challenge ahead. [[Applause]] Because what do you want us to do definitely in Ourense, to lock up the province and so don't bother them and don't have to go to public health? It's really...!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u372	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u373	And I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u374	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. You have the reply by the Government, the Health Counsellor, Mr. Vázquez Almuína.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u375	Look, Mrs. Presas, the problem with birth is that someone, a woman, can say she's happy to have no children. That's the birth problem. That's the birth problem. [[Applause]] [[Protests.]] The Galician Health Service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u376	Please listen to who's in use...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u377	...and the Power of Ourense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u378	Please listen to who is in the use of the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u379	...have the irrevocable objective of providing safe and quality health care to all patients and citizens who provide services. But we have to provide services, we have to look at the number of citizens we're going to have to attend: children, children, older and middle-aged, give exactly the same. Quality and security is the most important thing for all of us. And that's what we're working on all the time. As I say, in the case of Ourense's Pediatric Surgery, the quality and safety of children cared for by the best organization in the circumstances and available means. The creation of shared services responds to the need to organize the provision of a service with the most competent professionals. The service shared between Vigo and Ourense makes it possible for many cases to be attended in Ourense, sometimes by professionals moving from Vigo to interventions and moving to Vigo those cases that, because of their complexity, require other facilities and equipment. The experience of shared services is not a novelty in the field of cardiology, or, for example, radiotherapy, it's quite common. Regarding the Paediatric Surgery Service of the University Hospital Complex of Coruña, it is the reference to the areas of Ferrol and Lugo, so the pediatric population reaches 117,000 children under the age of 15 — 117,000 — and there are 6 pediatric surgeons. Vigo and Ourense add up to 104,000, less than the reference, and, as I say, in Lugo or Ferrol there are no pediatric surgeons. But, of course, I'm convinced that they have a great service, and it's not only demonstrated by these data, but also because, as I say, we're referring to the national level for child trauma or for premature heart surgery. So we have good professionals, we have a good system, and of course we're going to have to keep improving because that's the choice we have in the Galician Health Service. [[Applause]] And they're a lot of important things. We are not talking about the importance of conciliation, transport and other things, but, as I say, the most important thing for us is that it is a good service, a quality service and, as I say, for all children in Galicia, with shared areas of service, with the CSUR at the national level or with specific services for certain pathologies. We talked about it before the Ictus Plan, the Ictus Plan for all of Galicia, and we're talking about central coordination, which doesn't have to be spinning in a particular place, but is being organized to give, as I say, the necessary service to all the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u380	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Mrs. Presas Berganginos asks for the floor.]] Madam Presas, what do you want the word for? Yes, give a voice to Mrs. Presas's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u381	Well, according to Article 76, I want to ask for the floor because I believe that some allusions made by the Health Counsellor are against my honorability as a woman and against that of my group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u382	Quiet, quiet. We will listen to Mrs Presas, who is requesting compliance with the Rules of Procedure. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u383	I would ask the counsellor to correct us and to remember that we are not in frankism and that women are more than mere vessels to reproduce us. Of course, you have nothing to judge about the political considerations of my group, whether I'm a mother or not and whether I'm happy or not. Of course, with the economic situation in our country, like to keep myself, if I wasn't really working here, and how to keep some child. You'll be happy with the policies they apply. [[Murmurs.]] And if they're upset that women can decide whether or not we're mothers, because they're trying again to ban abortion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u384	Thank you very much, I think it's been perfectly explained. Let's move on to the next non-law proposition... Yes... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Sanitary Counsellor, Vázquez Almuína, asks for the floor.]] Sorry, tell me, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u385	What I have to say is that, of course, I wasn't looking for any way to insult or... But that wasn't for nothing, but we have to do a deep study of what's going on in Galicia. And, of course, there's a problem, some people say it's economic, others say it's cultural, and I think it's that. If the honourable Member feels insulted by me, of course, I withdraw that. But, of course, it wasn't for that purpose...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u386	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u387	The end is that the causes of lack of demographics are not the absence of one or two services of Pediatric Surgery.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u388	Thank you very much. I think the request to remove the words has been explained. Let's move on to the next question. Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the provision of funds to cooperate with the municipalities through the rural road plan 2017-2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u389	To put the question, Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u390	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Not many years ago a good number of rural roads were made by the neighbors. I don't move prehistoric melancholy, I'm not guilty of how old I am, but you'll understand that forty years are nothing. They're nothing, but they allow you to have a much more complete vision in time. Then came the community works of the Deputy, the conventions and shortly before 2005 cooperation plans which were thus distributed to friends and two brakes to others. They've given up to do some other tanatorium. In the Bipartite, affirming our municipalist vocation, we put order and wisdom on the matter, agricultural funds were used on the basis of objective criteria, nullifying previous agreements which led to the discovery that the PP mayors also knew how to manifest themselves and put the rule of law on solely. Remember that everything was calmed down when you saw that most of them were better off with the new criteria that were fair and consensual for the first time with Fegamp, for the first time! Democracy, which is so gratified, has and has among others a great issue pending: local funding, the current condemnation of mayors and government teams to beg in higher institutions for fractional funding. As a result of this unfair financing, the municipalities do not comply with their obligations. The EPIM first and then the Framework Plan gave a break, and with that money the municipalities were exercising that competence of works necessary to keep rural life alive. The 2016 Rural Road Improvement Framework Plan, which had a provision for a year of nearly 20 million, reduces available funds by more than 60% and goes to 16 million in two years. To see it in understandable figures: Boimorto, which had in 2016 of allocation 72,457 euros, goes in 2017 to 29,388,50 and 2018 has so many other plans. With this policy of reducing vital funds to rural investment councils, the People's Party refuses to maintain the necessary efforts in the provision of public funds to dignify and improve the quality of life of people we live in rural areas and that we also help to correct territorial imbalances and to fix population. What are the reasons for reducing funds to cooperate with the municipalities through the 2017-2018 Rural Road Plan while maintaining spending on propaganda of Government activity? Because, are we or are we not in the rural year? Are you still exhibiting Galician militants or is it pure tale?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u391	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas Cruz. To answer that, you have the word of the rural councillor, Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u392	Thank you, President. Mr Rivas, this year there is indeed a biannual plan, as the mayors asked us to do. In fact, last year we pulled out an annual plan, 19 million euros, and I have to tell them that 16 million euros have been certified. I also have to tell you that part of the non-certification corresponded to several municipalities, and I don't think it was Boimorto's, that he did. With which, last year was a co-financed plan through the RDP and this year are free own funds. This is the first time that 16 million euros of free own funds are allocated; that is 150% more than ever before in order to have a framework plan. With which, if 19 million euros were certified last year, you'll understand that from free own funds you couldn't have more of the certificates, which were 16 million euros, which doesn't mean that in the next budgets we won't have another biannual plan again. But it's bi-annualized because several of the mayors told us that they had certain problems with project drafting, with the realization of the permits, and in order to be able to certify in the current year, that's why we did it bi-annually. It is simply to clarify that, indeed, the others have history too, the others know when the neighbors joined together and if they continue to join, not for the opening of new roads, which is not allowed, and because year after year, after different plans, and since 2013, they have invested themselves only in road plans in Galicia 75 million euros. Moreover, I have to say that between this year and next year the claim is the arrangement — not the opening, but the arrangement — the conditioning, of 650 kilometers of roads; roads that go not only through this framework plan, but they know that we give more than important and transcendental impulse to the different partial concentrations. And we also change the methodology, and that methodology is for a new system that surrounds us and that also demands society that lives in rural areas, which is not to make grids, but to be able to expand those existing roads, if they improve, and therefore there is no need for new ways that will then have to be put in place, to unravel and to those that are very difficult those services, apart from being unnecessary. With which, there is a framework plan of paths; of course it is in line with the Fegamp, they have a choice for it 313 municipalities and the determination of budgeting comes according to the population, the surface, the degree of depopulation, the degree of aging and the level of agriculture of each municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u393	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u394	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't come out of my astonishment, really, Counselor, because it leaves me in my ear. I didn't tell you about opening roads, I told you about keeping paths, essential for those livestock, milk, meat, for those pig farms, for those farms that, thank God or other things, we have in Boimorto Town Hall and in many more municipalities. I'm talking to you about necessary maintenance, I'm telling you that when we have no logical funding for the municipalities — and this is a debt of democracy that you have with the place — you have to put money on. And if they keep propagating that we're in the rural year, they make it effective, but they make it effective in money. Works are, besides love, money. And I have so much to say. Figures are easily handled, handled to one side and to the other, wrapped and confused. I'm talking to him about realities, and the reality is that the mayors and the government teams are fighting blacks to keep the roads standing. They come black because there are wood farms that, when they pass, drag and leave their backs, that's what they are on the roads!, on the roads that we need to extract the wood, to take the machinery to ensil the corn and for all those activities that you and I know well. So, don't go through the hills of Obeda! and I'm sorry for the hardness. Let's go to the concrete. How much money will they invest, will they give to the municipalities? Money owed to the citizens of the countryside. When are you going to give it to them, and to what extent and how, to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u395	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas Cruz. For the Government's reply, the rural councillor, Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u396	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas, I'm not talking about figures, I'm talking about realities. I have to talk about economic accounts, just like you put me on the table with the economic accounts, which I'm giving you a logical and reasonable explanation. Last year there was a budget of 19 million euros that was co-financed through the RDP, through a measure that we have already exhausted because we do things well, so we invested everything we first achieved through the efforts of many. The RDP has been made up of many associations, with different political groups. There was a budget count, that count ran out and, therefore, the Galician Union had to make an effort, because it couldn't allow the Galician Union, and much less the Rural Council, that our municipalities had no framework plan again, so there are 16 million euros of free own funds. But there are not only these 16 million euros of free own funds, but we also have more than 20 million euros for the different agricultural restructurings, part of which are going to condition the roads, go to reorganize those roads, go to decentrate those roads, not only those 16 million euros. Well, it's true that roads are fundamental in rural Galician, we have a lot of population entities. The municipalities make an important and transcendental effort, and since the Rural Council, we have enabled various and different programs to be able to attend to, and to care for, various issues. Even when there is some kind of emergency, the Rural Council establishes agreements with municipalities to arrange, and at this moment we have one in Boimorto Town Council, along with Mesia Town Hall, of the arrangement of a bridge that was indeed a danger to citizens who went for it. They're two municipalities with totally different ideologies, but we pursue an end, and that goal is to provide services to the municipalities. They are four consecutive plans: year 2013-2014, year 2014-2015, there was another one in 2016 and now we are in 2017, and believe me that already making and enabling the 313 Greek municipalities to have, through a fully transparent system consensual with the Fegamp, a new funding for the municipalities, not only through track arrangements, but through sketches and in different areas that they are demanding us. With which, since 2013 it has been 75 million euros; in two years we will reach 650 kilometers; and the financing of own funds is this year 150% more than the year before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u397	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez and Mr. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, from G.P. of En Marea, on the number of fire prevention and extinction brigades of the municipalities that signed the cooperation agreement with the Rural Environment Council for participation in forest fire prevention and defence in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u398	To put the question, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u399	Thank you, President. I would like to take advantage of my intervention to denounce in this House the new adjournment of the 25 Saharan political prisoners in Gdeim Izik, in the face of the complicity and passivity of the UN National Security Council, in relation to the human rights of the Saharan population in the territories occupied by the Kingdom of Morocco. [[Applause]] That said, Counselor, good afternoon. The Rural Environment Council implements the partnership agreement between the Council and local authorities for participation in forest fire prevention and defence, partly co-financing it with the European Rural Development Fund under the Galicia PDR 2014-2020. In point 3, participation in the prevention and defence of forest fires, through the action of prevention and defence brigades, these conventions present two-line actions. First, preventive work. In it we are told that manual work will be carried out in biomass management tracks on forest land of municipal ownership or known owner, as well as on roads and forest roads of its ownership, when it is not possible to mechanize these works. The Rural Media Council will come up with a maximum of EUR 11,250 per brigade per year. Surface prices vary depending on slope and type of vegetation. Another line of action is to defend against forest fires, where it tells us that the brigades primarily collaborate, with respect to other works, in the defense against fires, integrating themselves into the sole command of the Unity of Galicia. The brigades can be composed of four, five or six members per workday. For all this, the Council brings up a minimum of EUR 11,481 per year for the four-component brigade, and 20,000 for six-component brigades. Many municipalities have stopped forming these brigades in recent years because, first, the Junta grant does not cover their costs, and secondly, because the work of roses has to run them at a time of greatest risk, something that contradicted the Pladiga itself. For all this, the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea asks the following question: What was the number of brigades to prevent and put out fires from the municipalities that signed this agreement with the Council of the Rural Environment from 2013 to this year 2017? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u400	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. You have the word to answer the rural councillor, Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u401	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are in the month of July and I think today is day 12, I want to take advantage of the opportunity given to me in front of all of you to insist on the importance of the fight against fires in Galicia; a fight that is undoubtedly everyone's and a struggle that makes us comply with the law to prevent fires. In this sense, we must remember the regulations, the fire law of 2007, which states that the first ones responsible for properly managing forest land are their owners. Secondly, it also corresponds to the municipalities, in a subsidiary way, to keep aging conditions in the fringes near the nucleus, and it speaks of at least these 50 meters that give us security so that we don't have great disappointments. And on the other hand, it is the Galician Union, which has to do — as it could not be otherwise — an important effort to help the municipalities in this work, and we have signed collaborative agreements for which we spend in three years 33 million euros, 11 million euros each year, and in addition we do it with stability; stability that now have the municipalities to hire their brigades, stability from 2016 to 2018. There is a budget increase of 30% compared to 2013. I'm saying 2013 because it's the question that you asked me, and I don't want to go back to history and start comparing them because they wouldn't be very good at these comparisons; not what we're doing now, that if we were doing well, but the previous one. In addition to being part of the autonomic operation by performing defence and extinction actions, the municipal brigades actually do prevention jobs such as rockets or hand-crafts. They are already known, ladies and gentlemen, that we have been in touch with all the administrations, state and local, by sending letters to various ministries, provincial deputies, Fegamp, councils and also electrical companies, by reminding them of the standard of application and by urging them to comply with the law, because, as I said, in the fight against fires we all have to be, and we all have a responsibility. The prevention of forest fires is not only carried out by us, and it is true that we need to remind private people, which is 97%, what their obligations are. In the case of the Middle Rural Council, the two thirds of its budget are devoted to preventive or valuation work, and one third to the extinction of fires. In addition, EUR 11.25 million was this year for forestry prevention aid; EUR 4 million for forest development societies and joint neighbouring mountains, for selective control of fuel and also for water points; and there is another part for awareness-raising, preventive monitoring and detection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u402	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the floor for Mr. Rodríguez Estévez' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u403	Thank you. The question was easy, which was to say how many brigades per year signed those agreements, but he didn't tell us. Just over a week ago, you presented the 2017 Pladiga, a document that was sent to organizations just a few days earlier from your office, a practice that seems to be common in recent years. A very extensive document, more than 300 pages between attachments and plans, of great technical complexity and which should be consulted, debated and worked together since the beginning of the year. These numbing practices are not sporadic, but they constitute a usual modus operandi in their counseling. In this way, your department takes the issues to the Forest Council as a result, and many of these members of the Forest Council get to know before the propaganda committee they've established in our country that in time and form, as it should be. It is not to be accepted that they could not participate in the Pladiga. I'm talking about the Pladiga because in it you announce that Galicia will have 275 brigades mounted in the municipalities by means of these conventions. We're not going to come in to appreciate if the city council brigade is, if not the city council brigade, although it's not much to remember those summer dates of 2006, when Galicia was living the worst wave of forest fires. In the midst of a wave of fire, a media outlet brought to light a report sent by the People's Party of the Crown to its mayors in the province, in which the party included instructions that should be followed by the residents and the waste pickers in signing the conventions to form the municipal fire brigades that were being organized in collaboration with the Union. You admitted that there were no major differences between the conditions imposed by the Bipartite and those previously stipulated by Mr. Fraga's Government, but you urged us to develop a strategy based on dilation, to delay the set-up of the device when the country was in laps. Whoever signed that instruction was the secretary of the Provincial Organization of his party, Maria Faraldo, who would later be mayor of Betanzos. I'll ask you again, it's very simple: what was the number of fire-prevention and fire-extinction brigades in the municipalities that you've subscribed to in recent years? The exact number.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u404	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u405	Sings no 2013, sings no 2014, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u406	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. You have the word, for the replica shift, the rural councillor, Mrs. Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u407	Mr. President. Your Honor, the truth is that I used to say that I didn't want to make comparisons because they always tell us we're ahead and back with the Bipartite, but I can tell you that in 2006 I was mayor, and I'd rather not remember what happened to that fire operation. I'm not going to use politically what happened at that time... I'm not doing it, I'm not doing it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] You remind me... you're reminding me of the Bipartite, I haven't even named it, I've been centering myself since 2013 until now, it's you. So I have to tell you I was mayor, and I'd rather shut up what happened there. Regardless of this, I'm telling you the number of brigades. You ask me since 2013, but if you want us to go to the year 2006, we could also go. Year 2013, 292; year 2014, 265; year 2015, 265; year 2016, 271; year 2017, 295. Those are the numbers I have to give you and you can know. [[Applause]] Apart from that, I can introduce you to other numbers like the following: we have built in the last five years 412 new water points, keys to the work of the air transport medium and the fire fighting device in Galicia, and thus 5,919 deposits are distributed throughout the community. If you want, I'll tell you where. In the province of Coruña, 1,696; in Lugo, 1,496; in Ourense, 1,447; and in Pontevedra, 1,274. But in addition, within the plan presented by the councillor of Fairy, we have substantially increased the resources to fight fire. So, regardless of other projects, new points will also be included that demand us in certain areas. Now we have 10,500 acres of cutters, distributed in the 19 districts, and the reaction time in front of a fire that is now, at most, 21 minutes, we're going to fight for 15 minutes. These are the data I had and I was hoping to tell them, but you might as well think I wouldn't tell them. Yeah, that's all I needed. And we also count -- as you know -- with those 30 air vehicles, 360 motorcycles, of which 69 are new, from last year to this year. No more, because I suppose you'll be clear, tell you that in addition to this year, the municipal brigades take out a total of 2,400 hectares; and the GES, which are 24 and are also agreed, and therefore you have to do this work because it's a few more brigades, 850 hectares, which was asking me Mrs. Ponton and, of course, I answer you. Without more, I only wish Galicia a good summer, because the fires are not only dependent on how summer comes, but they are also dependent on the incendiaries. And I am holding them by the hand, as advisor to the middle of the countryside, so that everyone within their capabilities may enforce the law and therefore Galicia ceases to be news of the fires. And please don't joke or surprise, because it's a big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u408	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Dr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da María Dolores Toja Suárez, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the intentions of Xunta de Galicia regarding the performance of the necessary actions to try to achieve the implementation in Galicia of the Community laboratory for bacteriological control of bivalves
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u409	To put the question, Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u410	Thank you, President. Counsellor, good afternoon. We ask the most unpopular question, because it's the last one and after this plenary everyone is willing to leave. We ask today about a question that has to do with the consequences of Brexit, almost all of them very negative in general, but some, although negative precisely for those who live there, can be positive by reflex effect elsewhere in Europe. We are particularly talking — as you know — about the European Bivalvos Agency, or CEFAS, as it is known, by its English acronym. What we have seen proving is that this situation of the derivation of European agencies, which were located in Britain and which now have to relocate elsewhere in Europe, has already happened in Galicia through a rather black or rather worrisome episode even, which was the request of the German Government in particular — let us say that Mr Núñez Feijóo was captain of the European Medicines Agency. Despite our questions, they kept telling us that they were working on that question. "We're working on it," they said. And in spite of that, we saw how the Government of Spain still bets, or has put it in its memory already, before those statements, by Barcelona; moreover, it will be difficult for it to carry that agency for reasons already known. The little relevance of the Greek Government in Madrid makes us worried: not only the AP-9, not only the AVE, but they also carried an important blow in this case. In the European Agency of Bivalvos we find that there is still a tibia bet. Galicia has enormous potential to be able to accommodate this centre, yet there was a warm request, as we said, for half a meeting, to ask or ask for this question. We believe Galicia is an ideal place. He has – we know today by some means of communication – hard and hard competitors but they are not necessarily better than Galicia. Here we have — and it has been pointed out from the Council — some of the most relevant places. We are echoing some of the reports that, as I said, have been published today, the Council itself talks about Vigo, who has the European Fisheries Agency and has the Faculty of Sea Sciences. It also speaks of the Arousa River Council, which has, as we all know, a network of training centres such as the IGAFA, on the island of Arousa; of research such as CISMA, in Vilanova, or the Intemar, in Vilagarcia. There would be more places even in Galicia to welcome. But since the board spoke and started talking about places, we remind him that there are even proposals of councils that are willing to talk. We invite you to welcome the proposals to speak and the dialogue to collaborate between administrations. We've finally invited you, Counsellor, to make a serious bet, to have your advisor overcome the failure of the Health Council and President Feióo with the Medicines Agency and you can make a clear bet. Our group will be on that bet, and we want to trust that their work — and we can invite her to do so — can bring to Galicia that European Agency, which we believe is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u411	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. You have the floor by the Government, the sea councillor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u412	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torado, after his exposure, and then in view of the written question, I think it's necessary to make some killings. First, the Government of Galicia bet so that the Community reference laboratory for bacterological and viral contaminants can come to Galicia is firm and determined. We have already made it clear when we instructed Professor Sobrino to study the impact of Brexit, and we have asked him precisely to refer, if he considered it appropriate, to the possibility that the Community reference laboratory — the CEFAS — which was in the United Kingdom — could move to another country of the European Union. Thus, reference was made to that study, and so it was positively valued, that it was important for Galicia to be positioned to request this Community reference laboratory, which is not an agency, nor has it anything to do with the Community reference laboratory with the European Fisheries Agency, which is in Vigo. If it may have to do with the Community biotoxin reference laboratory in Vigo, and we also have – as you have heard me – the Intemar, which is a control centre for the production of the bivalve molluscs and the waters surrounding our coasts. A center that is a reference center as a control center. What we're doing is working from minute one to be able to convince everyone that Galicia meets the necessary and sufficient conditions so that here, in our territory — not in a given county, I say in Galicia; I'm not talking about any specific center, I'm talking about the capabilities it has Galicia— if it considers Aecosan, the Spanish Agency of Consumption and Nutrition, can put Galicia as referring to the time of requesting this laboratory. I don't know what you're talking about. My formula for working is arguing, it's positioning us and it's believing all the abilities we have in our autonomous community. That's how we've done it since minute one, so we've asked both the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries, Food and the Environment and the Minister of Health to be the last in charge of the Aecosan Agency. And that's why we keep working this way and this formula. Even last week I sent back documentation to the Ministry of Health to continue to study and evaluate the formulas that allow us to position ourselves instead privileged against other countries that are currently also requesting the transfer of this community reference laboratory, not from any agency. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u413	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Torrado Quintela has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u414	Thank you, President. It's obviously a lab. I use the agency term because it's the commonly used one, even you used it in some press statement, but it's certainly a laboratory. If you want to refer to it by the acronym in full English, but I think it would be absolute pedantry, and I, of course, will not presume from my English, which probably won't be much better than the average. In any case, we share that it is necessary to be a firm and determined bet, of course, and that exceeds a report; a report is not a firm and determined bet. You know with all certainty, Counselor, how difficult it is for bets to be firm and determined, but when they are made there is a lot of dialogue, a lot of negotiation, the conditionants, sit down and talk to various agents, you know it for sure. I'm the only one who asks you, and what we put before our group, is that it's really firm and determined, that it doesn't remain in a mere statement of intentions, because that was -- let's say -- the precedent of what we have in the reference, the European Medicines Agency, which was a fiasco, a claim to have three magnificent headlines, and at the end I haven't heard of telling the Greek Government that I renounced that request, well he said that he continued the request without ignoring other proposals from the Government of Spain, which is the same thing as saying that we're not doing any case, but we don't want to admit that we want to hang a medal. In any case, arguing — as you say — with all the arguments that Galicia has, which it has, is also our conviction. So if that's the way, as I told you, it's going to have our support. We think it's important to speed up the step. We believe it is important that there is more momentum in negotiations, and that the ministers, including the Ministry of Health — as you say — that it was precisely the one that didn't come to Galicia when we spoke about the Medicines Agency, in this case you can hear it briefly, because Galicia is a power and you know it. I don't refer to you anywhere either, but these are issues that came out in the council itself. I know that the European Fisheries Agency, which is in Vigo, has nothing to do with it, but it will probably be better to locate it in Vigo than in Carballino, which is a good place but has no sea. By making less jokes, we will be in support of that firm and determined bet if it is really the will of the Council. We think it's a chance, we think Galicia has great opportunities to have this agency, and of course it would be good news. So I'm willing to tell you to work and consider the requests and proposals you make, and I'm sure you'll have more, of many municipalities, to collaborate between administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u415	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. You have the Government's reply to Mrs. Mar Counsellor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u416	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, I repeat, I don't think you've ever heard me name this community reference lab as an agency, they're two totally different things. You still call it Bivalve Agency. No, it's not an agency, it's a lab, which means, and with very specific functions in a regulation. But look, stay calm, we from Galicia will make a firm and determined bet so that this community reference lab can come to Galicia. I'm saving that in Vigo there is the European Fisheries Control Agency and there is also the Community Biotoxin Reference Laboratory. They're two European institutions, with different ranks each, and they're both located in Galicia. We keep working this way, with arguments. Don't tell me I'm scared, I say I work with arguments, I've done so since the first day. I appreciate your support, thank you for your cooperation, I would like to see this determined support, that this determined collaboration, which is now believing that they also demonstrated when they proposed us from Brussels to change the reference method for biotoxin detection, but at that time, by turning to the directives coming from the European Union, they accepted the chemical method as a reference method. At that time, when I arrived at the Government in 2009, I said it wasn't the best method, nor was it the most reliable, nor was it the most economical, we put ourselves against that method and went to the last consequences as we had to go, with arguments, and we reached the Strasbourg Court. In this case we keep working on the same line. We believe that in Galicia we have sufficient capacity and potential to maintain the Community reference laboratory for bacteriological and viral contaminants, so we started to work before the report was drawn up by Professor Sobrino. So stay calm, we'll keep working on our style, not yours. We always with the sector, always arguing and always looking for scientific bases, which is how these things have to be done, with arguments and with scientific bases, not depending on how the wind comes to us and how our interests come to us. [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-07-12-DSPG036.u417	Thank you very much, Counselor. At the end of the points, we raised the session.
