ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u1	Good morning. We reconvene the meeting, with agenda item 6, which corresponds to questions for an oral reply by the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the defence of Galician Government's interests
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u2	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u3	Good morning. Mr. Feijóo, my question today is very clear: will you exercise as President of Galicia and defend our interests or will you continue with your submission to Mr. Rajoy? I recognize you that I have very little hope seeing what your attitude is in relation to important issues for the country, how it might be the AVE or how it is, for example, the defense of a Greek electric tariff. But, if you like, let's start with the AVE. In Prestige times—remember?—you imposed the Galician Medal on Álvarez Helmets and promised the People's Party that the AVE would arrive in 2009. The fact is that he left some memorable headline: Feijóo, the Aznar downstream, guarantees the AVE. Then Zapatero arrived at the Moncloa, became a bruce with the lies of the People's Party and announced a new delay: the AVE would arrive in Galicia in 2012. Obviously, he didn't keep his word either. But in all this you also have a responsibility. After arriving at the Presidency of the Union, we are forced to sign the Abrahamic Pact, which was delaying the AVE by 2015. The truth is that this pact, which you presented as a historic pact, was actually a greater lie than the cathedral, which you used in the background. But we don't have everything to do with the delays. Then we had the Duo Rajoy-Feijóo, who first delay the AVE to 2016, then to 2018, now to 2019. That's right, now we're reminded of a new euphemism, a consolation prize: dates slip. It's a bargain, Mr. Feijóo. But let's talk about another topic that concerns thousands of people today, which has to do with electricity. In full fare, thousands of Welsh and Welsh, half a million Welsh and Welsh are up to five days without electric light. This has economic consequences, it's a contempt for rural people and even, Mr. Feijóo, it's put people's lives at risk. And this is not the fault of the temporal, it is the guilt and responsibility of the electricians who fail to meet their obligations and who are actually breaking the laws, while the People's Party, here and in Madrid, looks elsewhere. I imagine it will be a side effect of those rotating doors, which have them so dizzy. But, Mr. Feijóo, here in the background there is another issue which is very important and which has to do with the role of Galicia and the price of electricity. The minister has just told us that we get used to what we have to do is pay for more expensive light. Mr. Rajoy has already told us that his only intervention in the electric sector is to plug in Mr. Arsenio Fernández de Mesa en Red Electrico Española. And your contribution is to veto a Welsh electric tariff, which would result in an extraordinary savings for our businesses and also for families. Basquedi already has a lower rate. Mr. Feijóo, why do you want less for Galicia? That's why I'm asking you today whether you're going to exercise as president of the Greeks and the Greeks and defend our interests or whether you're going to continue dancing to the sound of Mr. Rajoy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, ask me if I'm going to exercise as president of the board. The answer is yes, I will exercise as President of the Union, because the Greeks and the Greeks so demand and for me it is an honour to exercise as President of the Union until 2020, which is where the mandate ends. So we'll have plenty of opportunities to keep talking about Galicia. Your Honor, you speak of various matters. By AVE he asks his comrade of En Marea. I don't know if you're always going to ask me the two questions: that of the BNG and that of En Marea; it would be good if they agreed. But I will defend Galicia's interests, I do nothing else, Your Honor, from legality, from loyalty and from common sense. Your Honor, the common sense of knowing what real Galicia needs and not invented Galicia. Your Honor, the mantra you're trying to poison society without glue. Looks like Galicia starts and ends at the BNG headquarters. Not queue, Your Honor. In 2016, which we just finished, in September, the Greeks spoke very clearly again: they don't trust the BNG. And since they don't trust BNG, they didn't even give him a representative in the General Courts. And you know why they don't trust BNG? Because when you were in the General Courts they said a lot of things, but unfortunately they did other things. Do you remember one afternoon at this plenary session when I was surprised — I was in opposition — that the BNG had not taken advantage of his vote in the Senate to disprove Minister Magdalena Álvarez? Remember it exactly. Minister Magdalena Álvarez considered, in respect of the Galician Plan, that was the plan of the AVE, something about which it is not necessary to memorize here what he said, because all the Greeks know, except you and the BNG. By the way, any investment arrangements that you've agreed to with Rodríguez Zapatero have been executed? Your Honor, you were in favour — taking over the signature of the BNG — that AVE would arrive in Galicia, yes or yes, in 2012. Your Honor, I don't blame you for these kinds of issues, but the Greeks have memory. And now, after a year of paralysis, which we've been here saying on a continuous basis, we've been saying that their colleagues on the right hand, those of "you're in", and their comrades on the left, who self-proclaimed government vice-presidents—and wanted all social ministries, wanted the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior to deal with "you're in"—for a year they paralyzed the country's infrastructure. Look, Your Honor, if you ask me if I'm satisfied with the dates of the AVE, my answer won't change. The answer is, no. Now, if you ask me if I'm satisfied and our negotiating position is much smarter than that of the BNG, the answer — powerfully — is yes. Your Honor, we will be judged by the Greeks, they do so every time they have occasion, and the Greeks every time they have occasion tell us that we must continue to govern, according to legality, according to loyalty and common sense. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, I'm talking to you here about problems that the Galicians and the Greeks have, and what do you answer me? By opposing the opposition and lying in relation to what has happened in the past. You were part of a government that said AVE was coming to Galicia in 2009. After he told the Greeks, he signed a pact of the Oberdoiro in which — read literally — he said that in 2009 the works of the three-strand platform between Zamora and Lubian would be auctioned, in 2010 all the high-speed sections bided and in 2011 the AVE stations of Santiago, Vigo, the Coruña and that AVE would be agitated to Ourense. What have you done all this time, Mr. Feijóo? Be an accomplice to Mr. Rajoy's and Mrs. Ana Pastor's non-compliance with this country. You sold Galician interests, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] You introduced a program that said the arrival of AVE to Galicia in 2018 was irrevocable. It is of course absolutely indecent what you are doing and it is a betrayal to the interests of this country. But I told you about another subject that you seem to want to hide under the carpet: tariff. Will there be sanctions against the electricians for breaking the law, yes or no? Will there be any help to the people who have suffered enormous losses, yes or no? Are they going to make the electricians comply with the law, yes or no? And second, Mr. Feijóo, are you going to start defending Galician interests and claiming a Welsh electric fare or is it going to be a cap for this reality? You told us the other day this couldn't be. However, what you have to explain to the Greeks and to the Greeks is why in Euskadi it can be and in Galicia, that we produce electricity the ladder, that we export one third of our electricity, you don't want the Greeks and the Greeks and the companies in our country to have a cheaper price. Look, Galliza doesn't defend herself by getting involved in his flag so soon he won't really be able to defend the interests of this country faithfully. Galicia defends itself with facts, and its facts are delays and more delays for AVE and to be an accomplice of the electricians in our country's policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, all Members and Members could hear from you what I said would happen in 2009, in 2010 and in 2011. But you don't say that during 2009, 2010, 2011 and the previous years ruled the Socialist Party in Madrid and we were in opposition. Don't tell me you're gonna make me responsible for what Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez did in Madrid and what you did by supporting Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, from 2005 to 2011 has ruled the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in Madrid, with the votes of the BNG. So what happened during that time in Madrid is your responsibility, Your Honor, sole responsibility of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Applause]] Yes, you... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u10	They don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u11	...don't count on me ever to lie to the Greeks. I couldn't ask Mr. Blanco to do the AVE in 2012, because that was impossible, and I asked him to do it in 2015, and obviously I'm not saying that he didn't execute and didn't budget, but obviously 2015 was impossible. Yes, Your Honor. And when I arrived at the Government, what I proposed was a date: in 2018. Now you accuse me of a three-quarter delay. I take the charge, Your Honor, I take that charge, but I can assure you that I have a very calm conscience. [[Murmurs.]] I said what I think and I'm going to keep saying what I think, to rule who rules in Madrid. I have autonomy to do this, I will continue to defend Galician interests and I need no lessons from BNG. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, in the field of the electric tariff, where we're working, after the two temps we're suffering, it's in two things. First of all, in assessing what happened, and that's why we opened an information file to the electricians. For what? To confirm the performances, whether they have been appropriate or not. And that's why we demand to know the time of interruptions, the number of affected users, the average time of replacement of the service and the staff employed, and I thank everyone who worked during the time. Secondly, Your Honor, what we are looking at is consumer rights, making consumers available the consumption services of the Galician Union and the telephones and the website of the services of the Autonomous Community. Your Honor, in Galicia there are 77,000 kilometers of electric line, 77,000. The number of supply points affected during the two times reached 10%. Do you know when you governed the supply points affected by time? 180,000, 1.83 million points affected. Your Honor, when you ruled, the points affected — I just said 180,000, 1.83 million supply points — were not 180,000, it was 500,000, it was affected; 500,000, Your Honor. From 180,000 of these two temporals to 500,000 when you ruled. Your Honor, I understand you don't want to talk about when you were managing the Industry Council. You'll know why. I'm talking about when we're managing, and of course, Your Honor, of course I'm talking about another commitment to my country. Look, Your Honor, when I arrived at the Government, the windmills didn't pay a burden for installing the electric mills. Yes, Your Honor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When you ruled, you didn't charge a euro for the wind power mills in the country. The power companies have now entered the ark...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u13	...of the Town Councils and the Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u14	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u15	...160 million euros. That's the big difference, Your Honor. [[Applause]] With Galicia's engagement, that's my presentation card. That's why, Your Honor, I have no doubt: I will be much more demanding of the Central Government than you were the nationalists with the Government of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u16	Thank you, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the view of the Government of Galicia regarding the recent developments in the deployments of the auxiliary car industry in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u17	Mr. Fernández Leicega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u18	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, I have to tell you how important the car sector is in Galicia, with more than 100 companies, with 19,000 direct jobs, more than 8,000 million sales volume and a remarkable export capacity, which is still more important in the southern province of Pontevedra, where most industrial plants are concentrated. And within the sector, the component industry, the auxiliary industry, is responsible for about three-quarters of the final value, grouped into a cluster that collects companies from all over the world, some of them from Greek capital, some of them already multinationals, who have powerful public aid. I don't blame him for not doing anything by the Galician Council. I'm telling you that what you do is not enough, it's not enough, and that we can act more decisively if you have an integrated view of industrial policy. And I also tell you that right now the Galician Union must be more concerned — more concerned — about what it is and must be more active — more active — than what it is being, because we are at a crucial moment. As you know, investments take place in the sector at the time of launch of new vehicles. And it's pending the launch of the K9 and after the V20. And for the first time, a launch like the K9 doesn't attract new providers from the final plant, the final assembly plant, Galicia. This isn't happening for the first time in a long time. Expenditure on investments in the auxiliary industry triples in Portugal to Galicia over the past three years. There's also strong investments in other areas like Morocco, which are competition for our companies. We are — this is very important — 20-0, to simplify, in new deployments: 20 in Portugal, 0 in Galicia. Mr President, the cluster president himself is also investing in Portugal, creating news, and is absolutely legitimate as an entrepreneur, but indicative of what is happening. We lost 2,000 jobs and Portugal won 6,000 in the last five years. He's already got more billed and they're duplicating us on the job. Of course, competition is tough, the internal competition of the European Union, the countries of Eastern Europe, Portugal itself; outside, Morocco, India, Iran, many others. Competition is hard and it focuses on prices in some sectors. So there are certain segments of the production process that we can't aspire to in Galicia, but we have to definitely aspire to that others, those that generate more added value or incorporate more qualified work, are left here. We have to aspire to a balanced solution and we cannot passively watch the weight loss of the auxiliary industry. Our objective must be to balance the opening up of new factories, in investment, in employment, by acting in training, in logistics, in enterprise, in competitive industrial soil, in ensuring that competition rules at European level are complied with. Mr President, are you satisfied with what is happening in the auxiliary car industry?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u19	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, ask me about the car auxiliary industry in Galicia, and to put in context this answer you know you can ask me about this, because Galicia has obtained the three new models to build at the PSA-Peugeot factory in Vigo. If Galicia did not get those contracts, the question would obviously not be about the auxiliary industry, the question would be about dismantling the PSA-Peugeot factory in Vigo. That's why I'm glad to have this debate, Your Honor. Vigo gets this contract for three reasons. First, for the excellent competitiveness of the workers of the PSA-Peugeot Citroën plant in Vigo; secondly, for the excellent competitiveness of the auxiliary motor industry in Galicia; and thirdly, for the unequivocal support of two administrations: the State Administration, through the Free Zone, and the Unity of Galicia. Your Honor, believe me that the PSA was left with options to put these new vans, which are the most sold in the industrial vehicle sector, and I can assure you that I have witnessed, along with the economic advisor, those options, both at the meetings we held in Vigo and at the meetings we held in Paris. Finally, Galicia, Vigo, manages these three models and we are able to recover the levels of production, of vehicle construction and, secondly, to have a secure future for the factory for the next ten years. Data from the automotive auxiliary industry of 2016 will be released, but what we have and what we consider reasonable is that this industry in 2016 has increased its billing, it has not decreased, as you say; it increased from 5% to 8% or 9%, it has increased its employment to auxiliary industry by about 10%, 2,000 new workers, and PSA-Peugeot Citroën has increased its vehicle construction by more than 17,000 vehicles in 2016 over 2017. Your Honor, the two vans in the K9 model and the V20 (SUV) are an increase in billing for the auxiliary industry of 750 million euros: 500 million euros more in the K9, which means an increase of 6% of the car auxiliary industry billing, and about 250 million euros more a year as a result of the V20 model. Your Honor, do you know why we're working? First of all, because there is an alliance between Galician Union, clearly, and Psa-Peugeot Citroën. Secondly, because, as you pointed out to me, we have to bet on talent and innovation; we're betting on talent and innovation. And thirdly, because we are encouraging this industry with 100 million euros, which mobilises a total of 600 million euros of new investments. Your Honor, if you ask me if I'm worried about Portugal, the answer is that yes, because you, like me, know that wages in Portugal are much lower than in Spain and European incentives in Portugal, since it is a country that does not reach 75% of the average income of the European Union, it is much higher than in Galicia and Spain. But you can't ask me — and in fact you'll never ask me — to equal pay down, but what you're asking me is to bet on the lines of innovation and talent. And you know, like me, that is exactly what we're doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u22	...by betting on innovation and talent. But, Your Honor, the car auxiliary industry in Galicia has a future, it has a future at least for the next decade. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u24	I'm not going to accuse him of being part of the PSA board, which I know is not true, but he did here an exercise of selling his excellence, and I tell him: he doesn't have to do it with me. I know it's just implantation, development, maturation -- let's say -- from the PSA factory in Vigo that explains much of everything that's happening. So we're not going to talk about that part. Let's talk about the other one. And you have to explain to me some things you haven't mentioned and you have to explain to me why what's going on in the car auxiliary industry is going on. Of course we must strengthen our advantages. We have to be more productive, we have to do better, because that's what allows us to have the wages that defend our model of life. Of course, we must strengthen the incentive programme, but we must act above all on disadvantages, and disadvantages not on wages and working conditions. That, in any event, we could from the public point of view promote a business-union agreement which would stabilize collective bargaining in the medium term. What we have to do, especially — and you haven't said anything about it — is to talk about the availability and cost of industrial soil, which is a decisive element in the new deployments, and you haven't told me anything about this, and this depends much more on public policy; therefore, it depends on what you as President of the Board are willing to do. In Portugal they are offering only 0 euros a square meter, plus 40 million square meters minimum and 60% available. In Pontevedra the industrial soil, as you know, is much more expensive. So what do we have to do? We need to review aid programmes to ensure that they promote stability and do not finance the move of companies to Portugal. We have to act in industrial soil. You're going to tell me about PLSAN; I'm going to tell you already preventively that it's much easier than in the next three years to enter the Ramsar Convention to house a single industrial company. And yet we have to make an effort on industrial soil in Portugal. [[Applause]] And we must also denounce Portugal in front of the European Union, for unauthorized state aid, which distorts competition. The urgent analysis of the grants you're doing through this way confirms it, I'm sure you have a study available to you. And we have to do a much more powerful business R & D+i promotion program. You know as well as I do that last year there was no training call for the Galician members of the board. In 2016 there was no training call for employees. And finally, Mr President, I believe that all this deserves to be given Parliamentary headquarters a permanent forum, through a subcommittee in the Committee on Industry, which analyses the situation, analyses the future of the car industry, the auxiliary industry, and proposes the lines of action that we need for this so decisive sector for Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u25	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u26	Your Honor, I just gave you the data — we'll see if it's confirmed when the cluster implements the 2016 balance, but the data we manage is that the billing of car companies increased by 10% in 2016 and that employment is around, at an increase of 2,000 jobs, that's 10% more. That's the data. There are important providers who started making investments with K9: Benteller, Antolín, Snop, Autoneum. Your Honor, Denso is making pieces not only for Vigo, but for France. Yes, Your Honor, for the plants of PSA-Peugeot of Sochaux, Rennes and Sevelnord. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, do you know that in auxiliary companies in the automotive sector in Galicia 60% of their production is for manufacturers other than PSA-Peugeot Citroën? So, Your Honor, I understand your concern but not your diagnosis. Your Honor, the sector is moving, and now we can talk about this, because when no one was weighing on us we got the two models that are going to start manufacturing next year, plus an additional model, of an SUV, which was never done in the factory at Vigo. So, Your Honor, the total estimated investment of these three models is EUR 3,000 million, and these are not figures from the Galician Union, they are figures from the cluster of the German automotive sector. Your Honor, we are working — you know — to finance lines of innovation, research, talent. For example, the investments announced by the Copo Group in GKN account for more than 33 million euros, and those made by Benteler account for more than 20 million euros. But, of course, you know that in Portugal the time/man in the automotive sector is around 13 euros/hour, and in Galicia it is around 17-20 euros/hour. But, naturally, we can't put down wages, what we have to do is raise productivity. Your Honor, when he told me about the ground, never in Galicia the soil was cheaper than now, and we had to rescue Gestures because they delivered them broken; yes, Your Honor, broken. We had to make capital enlargements of 180 million euros. But I'll give you the data, ladies and gentlemen. In Mos, the surface right is 2 euro square meter per year, and in Ponte Caldelas, in Pontevedra, 1 euro square meter per year, and in Arbo, 0.90 cent square meter per year. You say you don't want to talk about PLSAN. It must be because you already know that PLSAN is finally going to be marketed this year 2017. But what I'm telling you is that we are aware that we have risks, Your Honor, and that's why Galicia's investment capture action plan was one of the last decisions of the board of directors. And that's why we're going to bring here a business implementation promotion law. And I ask you to read that bill with interest. Why? Because we are going to try to make the maximum administrative simplification, because we are going to select support well and because specialisation and dynamisation measures will be contained in the law. I hope and hope that the Socialist Party, since it is concerned — and I thank you for that — will give us what we lack, which are concrete proposals; I hope to know yours. What I'm telling you, Your Honor, is that the automotive sector in Galicia has a decade off of orders. And what I'm telling you, Your Honor, is that, at least we depend on a single brand, better for the sector, and at the moment 60% of the parts of the automotive industry that we do in Galicia are no longer doing for that brand, although — that's true — that brand is very important for the country. And with regard to Portugal, I have no doubt, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u28	We are going to comply with the competition rules and we are going to be absolutely oriented to defend ourselves in the euro region, both in Portugal and in the Portuguese part; there is no doubt about it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the non-fulfillment of the deadlines and plans of the new railway accesses to Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u30	Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, the chronicle in which AVE refers, from the arrival of high speed to Galicia, is with you the chronicle of an announced surrender. It seems that in Galicia the only thing that's going fast is the wind in time and also the relocation of companies from the automobile to the north of Portugal. That's right, but then the rest goes pretty slow. And it goes slowly because it is known his surrender, because you refused to behave as president of a country to behave as a subordinate, as a simple government delegate in Galicia, who had to stop and suffer in silence from Iñigo de la Serna as we would not have AP-9 for Galicia or AVE in 2018, nor dog to steal, nothing!, because he came to announce to us Galicia's surrender to the central government, and you with this situation of absolute silence and absolute paralysis. The only thing that's going fast in Galicia is the fall of water and the fall of trees in time, and also the delivery to Vega Sicilia's home, because road transport works better than rail freight; it's true: concessions are better in that sense. But, even for popular ridicule, you, just fifteen days ago, went to Madrid to receive instructions, to receive instructions from a lie; instructions to deceive your own citizenship, saying that the AVE would arrive not in 2018 but in 2019, when it really won't enter any Greek city until 2022. You went with your ass between your legs and came back with a lie between your lips. He came back with a lie between his lips because the Taboadela-Ourense plot will not be finished at least until 2019, plus the period of proof, that is, at least until the next electoral period. But it's just that he won't go in like this in a city of Galicia until, at least, the year 2022. He won't reach Ourense until 2022, because I don't know if he knows — perhaps yes or perhaps no — that the Taboadela-Ourense plot is not even bid. You probably don't know, because I didn't know that Villar Mir had any intention of tearing apart Ferroatlantics and selling it separately. Now you know, and I miss you because you entered Parliament through the mouth of En Marea, taking the representation of the entire region of the Coast of Death in defense of your jobs. It defends the legality, the legality of the concession, and does not allow the fractional sale of hydroelectric power and ferroalleration. So, finally, let's not fool him, and don't fool us, because we won't get AVE to a Greek city until the year 2022, and you know it. And, on the other hand, why should we trust his word? They first said 2010, after 2012, after 2015, after 2018. Why were we supposed to believe it was going to be in 2019 now? To invent the date of 2019, you had to invent the sliced. Just as they cut off the bites of public works adjudication to pay with envelopes to the high positions of the PP and the headquarters reforms of the People's Party, they now scrape the steps so that they can justify the arrival in 2019. [[Murmurs.]] And yet, who trusts the AP-9 spell for Galicia? Who trusts the 2018 Feijóo? Who trusts Vega Sicilia's spell? Who trusts the Government's friend of the plastic threads? Who trusts the government friend of Basel? Yes, because here yesterday a colleague of your party and here in this House — in Parliament — said that he did not refuse to give up on Basel. Are you renegade from Basel, Mr. President? Do you deny Basel or not? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u32	Quiet, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u33	Yes, yes, he did, he said, it's collected in the Chamber sessions. Tell him whether he refuses or does not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u34	Quiet, please. Silence! Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u35	He did say it, and it's collected in the Chamber session. Will you continue to allow ridicule to our country, with indefinite delay in essential infrastructures? You still don't know that the 2018 forecast of the arrival in Ourense also included the arrival in Ourense capital? How long will we have to continue to stop the PP being treated as second-rate citizens, Mr. Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u36	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u37	Very illustrative, Mr. Villares. [[Laughter]] As you were talking, I would imagine you in the Ministry of Development last week. I'm sure he'd get there and say, look, I'm Mr. Villares, and automatically the stopped tunnels would start opening, the pending viaduct would start building and you'd come to Galicia almost already in AVE. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] But, as you can imagine, I am not Mr. Villares, Your Honor. I am a Greek that I have little fool, Your Honor. That's right, I'm a Greek, and therefore I can distinguish between the new Moses and the reality of managing me. Your Honor, for a year I've been here saying that, when you self-proclaimed government vice-presidents, Foreign Minister, Minister of the Interior, in Zarzuela, by the way, Your Honor, this was a joke that was going to come out to us, and indeed, ladies and gentlemen, it comes out. Because between "you're not in" and the pride of your charismatic leader, Your Honor, he went out towards the country, and what I belong to, to Galicia. But look, Your Honor, in the reference to AVE, I don't know if it would be better for a government between Podemos and the Socialist Party or the delay of a year. Or, said otherwise, I know: I prefer the delay of a year than a government between the Socialist Party and We can. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because we could say goodbye to the AVE forever. I'm going to read, if you don't mind: statements from the previous spokesperson of AGE, a long time ago, eh!, one hundred twenty days, October 14, 2016: "We want an increase of the railway service, but without great pharaonic works like the AVE." The deputy next to you, Your Honor, for now Mr. Anton Sánchez, March 2015: "AVE is a huge business and waste." Your Honor, the previous spokesperson — indeed — of your parliamentary group, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, 2015 budgets: "There are no more projects than to steal mountains." "AVE and high speed is classic and centralizing." [[Protests.]] [[Protests.]] It seems, Your Honor, that now you have changed your mind. Welcome to the high-speed train to Galicia, Your Honor! Welcome to the high-speed train to Galicia! [[Applause]] Welcome, Your Honor, and I hope you don't call it in order, because you in the second part of the intervention gave the subject corresponding to today, yes, with much interest, but unfortunately with little credibility. [[Applause]] I have to come to this House to say that the train suffers a three-quarter delay, yes. I have to come to this House to say that the commitment of the Government of Spain, as a result of the paralysis of the last year, is a three-quarter delay, until September 2019, yes. And I have to say, Your Honor, that from there begins the AVE in evidence. Yes, Your Honor. Finally, the objective is that at the end of 2019 the evidence is missing, but the works are not missing. That's the goal, Your Honor. And when you talk to me about Íñigo, less bad than my last name, Íñigo de la Serna, because, Your Honor, the most important Íñigo right now, at least this week in Spain, it's not Íñigo de la Serna, it's Íñigo Erregón, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u39	But welcome anyway to the high-speed train. It's a fundamental work for Galicia. I hope, Your Honor, that your group in Madrid will support the budgets. Oh, it was good! [[Murmurs.]] Ah! Your Honor, then, if you don't approve the budgets, then you tell me that there are no budgets to do the AVE. [[Laughter]] Mr. Villares, you already have the next question. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u41	It's very funny to go back in AVE to Galicia, which is up to you, you know we can't do. Do you know what I would like to do when the plenary session is over? I'm going to Lugo by train, and I can't. I can't, neither of you can go by train to Lugo, nor of Lugo can go by train to Coruña normally, nor of Lugo can go to Ourense, because everything inside Galicia is absolutely devertebrate by rail, because of its inoperability and its inability to vertebrate railwayly Galicia, and therefore we can't do anything as normal as going by train to Lugo, and to Lugo or other places. [[Applause]] In order to be able to announce the date of 2019, you swallowed with that imposition, with the true chambonade of the Taboadela-Ourense frame, worthy of one — if you want the Íñigo, for nothing — Íñigo Gotera and Otilio Feijóo if you want, which would be really comic if it wasn't for the gravity of the situation, the severity of reuse of an existing route, as it has been said, modernized and electrified to be able to circulate trains; a truly second or third category solution, which creates conditions of insecurity when it comes to different technologies, that of the road and that of the convoy, prepared for different speeds. Did you know that the AVE, that magnificent plot offered by your friend Iñigo — the important one — will enter Ourense with sweet curves like that of Angrois? Will you be eager to establish security conditions for the railway infrastructure and the train to enter security conditions in Ourense? Let's hope so, because we believe that there are no announcements of advance dates for security; it's unacceptable, it's intolerable, and that's what you seem to be announcing. And we've warned them that we're not going to go through that. And the Galician citizenship won't forgive them for a single safety impact, and it will rise against you if you allow it, simply because they're allowing the indecency of being treated as second- or third-class citizens. We rejected his worship at the P.P. in Madrid and his simple configuration as a government delegate in Galicia. We want you to rectify, not to deceive the citizenry, that they say the VA to Ourense will not reach until 2022, and that they believe the railway conditions of arrival in full security from the very first moment. Rectify; if you do so, you will have En Marea on your side; if not, you will have a whole citizen tide in front of you. And I repeat the above: go prepare a railway plan of proximity to Galicia, because we like to go to Madrid very much, but above all we would like to ask the citizens of Greece and the citizens of Greece to communicate Lugo with Santiago, Santiago with Ourense, Lugo with the Coruña, ultimately, to vertebrate and communicate railwayally Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u42	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u43	Look, Your Honor, how security concerns us, that's why the Ministry of Development has just announced that the works will end in the third quarter of 2019 and start testing the trains. We're worried about security, a lot, yes, Your Honor, yes, a lot. And because we're worried about security, when you talk about security, I don't know why you mean me; I don't know why you mean me, probably because you don't want to refer to your partners in municipalities. But let me read this paragraph, which I think is sufficiently enlightening. "The reopening of the Madrid-Burgos train line for the economic revitalization of southern Castilla and León is a priority and urgent matter." Your Honor, you are not surprised, this is literally what the Members of En Marea are defending at the Congress of Deputies; date: December 15, 2016. Yes, Your Honor, this is what the German group of En Mareas says, quote text, including photo, at the Congress of Deputies. Reiterate again: "The reopening of the Madrid-Burgos train line is a priority and urgent priority for the economic revitalization of southern Castilla and León." That's what they care about having AVE in Galicia seems to be that you're a little confused at the moment. The person who took that seat is what the Marea Group says. Is that why you want a group of your own in Madrid? Is that what you're defending in Madrid? [[Laughter]] Look, Your Honor, today we know your position -- I don't know if the whole group -- it's practically impossible to know the group's position -- about AVE. I hope that posture keeps you tomorrow, because it's important to know exactly what the position of En Marea is with the groups that make it up. Now, it's not surprising that they give bidding and performing classes of public works, is it, Mr. Villares? Given your great experience in budgetary and public economic management, I'm not surprised at everything you teach us today. Look, Your Honor, you're managing the country, because you don't think the country is mono-colored, it's mono-colored Galician Union, the Greeks wanted it that way. But look, in the Coruña you had fifty-seven advertised works. Do you know how many performed in the first 20 months? Three, three, Your Honor, three. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, I'm a neighbour of Vista Alegre Street, do you know how the Vista Alegre Street is in Santiago? You've been in government for two years and yet you haven't finished the works of a street in Santiago and you ask me about AVE in Galicia. Your Honor, you need at least a little modesty; a little modesty, Your Honor, a little modesty. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] If you're not able to do a work on Santiago Street, if you're going to take all the dark winter in the country, Your Honor, that you tell me about the high-speed train is very exciting, but nothing else, Your Honor. I'm just asking you to be a little strict... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u44	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u45	...to be a little strict. Look, Your Honor, you have all sorts of opinions, sometimes in favor of AVE, sometimes against AVE. Of course, Burgos's interests are of great interest to you. You have all sorts of spokespersons. The more they know you, the less they support you to be a spokesman, but that will be your question. And you have all sorts of currents, but there's a confluence, a common denominator: ineffectiveness, lordship. So, Your Honor, if you want to work seriously with AVE, tell me. Now, if what you're going to announce to me now is to block the assumptions of the high-speed train to Galicia, you'll be responsible. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to read an institutional statement that made me agree on the groups. Institutional declaration Institutional declaration in support of the change in the name of Santiago de Compostela airport "In recent times the Pleno do Concello de Santiago de Compostela unanimously adopted an institutional statement calling for a change in the name of Santiago de Compostela airport, which would become known as the Rosalía de Castro-Santiago de Compostela-Lavacolla airport. Castro's Rosalía shines with its own light in Galician history, is the most representative writer in the English language and a fundamental figure in European literature. Rosalía de Castro dedicated his life to the recovery and forge of his personal identity, his gender identity and Galician identity, achieving on that path a unique and precursor artistic manifestation of our best literature. The Resurrection begins with the publication of Gallegos Singers, which returns the language of Welsh to writing after centuries of silence. Santiago de Compostela-Lavacolla Airport is another important symbolic reference to Galicia. It represents the connection to the Welsh diaspora in Europe and in the world, and it is also the main way in and out of the millions of visitors each year to visit Galicia and its capital. For all these reasons, the Galician Parliament, taking into account the demand of the Santiago de Compostela Municipal Corporation, which other institutions such as the Royal Galaga Academy, has joined, supports the proposal for a change in the name of Santiago de Compostela airport to become known as the Rosalía de Castro-Santiago de Compostela-Lavacolla Airport." This is the statement, which is signed on 7 February 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u47	We continue with non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Carlos Enrique López Crespo and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to adapt the reduction coefficients of retirement age to the characteristics of the maritime-fishing activity of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u48	This motion for a non-law has been tabled amendments by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Galician Nationalist Block and the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u49	Mr. López Crespo has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u50	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are here to deal with a topic — everyone is important in managing the public to improve the state of well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks, but in this case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u51	Excuse me a moment. Sounds like there's a problem with sound. Excuse me for a second. To see the Services solve this problem that we have with the microphone. Put it down a little bit more, if it's possible, maybe it's there... put down the microphones a little bit more, if it's possible, the microphones down there, turn them down... like this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u52	It's a matter of height, I'm not surprised.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u53	Let's see now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u54	Is that better now? Sure. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If not, live voice, it's good too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u55	Then they say they don't listen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u56	Why not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u57	Do you hear? Do you hear me? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u58	They don't interest you. He's more interested. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u59	Looks like you're listening.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u60	Looks like you're listening.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u61	Well, come on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u62	How?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u63	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u64	Let's proceed. He said: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is always normal the Group of the People's Party's concern that in its initiatives in this Parliament it substantially improves the state of well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks, in all cases. But this one has a more humane component, if we want it, since it is a matter that affects a sector that is very sensitive to any decision taken by the Government of Galicia, which is the sea sector, and at an age where you are already back from all your jobs and you get to retirement. And that's why there's one aspect of this retirement, which is the reducing coefficients, which is important to deal with to break certain historical atavisms that exist with the denomination. That is why we bring this initiative here to Parliament. In principle, two important aspects of these reducing coefficients need to be divided. On the one hand, the amendment of the reduction coefficients by the Directorate-General for the Merit affecting the reducing coefficients of the freezer vessels; and on the other hand, the proposal to amend the Community fishing fleet regulation, which defines the characteristics of fishing vessels. This would affect records from which the data is taken to determine these reducing coefficients. In the first of these cases, that is, the change in the survival of the reducing coefficients by the Directorate General of the Merchant Marines, we must say that this change comes from the imbalance between the data existing at the Institute of Marines (the ISM) and the Directorate General of the Merchant Marines, since the vessels affected have never been found as freezers in the Official Register of Ships of the previous general direction; they have been reported as such in the Register of the ISM. Secondly, this classification as a freezer was declared in its day to the ISM by the shipowner and, in the absence of contrast to the data of the Merchant Navy, which is now being carried out, is what becomes of this changing situation. Therefore, the conflict had its origin in the various sources of information about fishing vessels: on the one hand, the ISM; on the other hand, the Directorate General of the Merchant Navy; and on the other hand, the census of the operational fishing fleet. Then also, since the adoption of the last modification of the reducing coefficients in 2007, there is a normative mandate for the unification of the information contained in the different databases, so that the data used by the ISM on ships is directly fed into the information contained in the commercial marine bases. This uniformization led to certain vessels that were found to be freezers in the ISM databases becoming considered to be trawlers or longliners. In view of this situation, the Council of the Sea has been working since 2015 so that the Central Government will maintain the retirement reduction coefficient — that is important — of long-ship crews and trawlers. The contacts of the Union and the Central Government were established as soon as the Union became aware of this problem. Two meetings were held mainly: one in February 2006, to address the depth and intensity of the problem, and another, in October 2006, with the heads of the departments of Agriculture, Food and the Environment, on the one hand, Employment and Social Security, on the other, and Development, on the other. In them the balance of the matter was made, a possible solution was determined, which is finally reached, to go back to the situation at the beginning point, in order to maintain intact the reducing coefficient of 0.40 of the retirement age. From the management of this situation was informed from the beginning of the sector, which was contacted by the Council to point out the existence of this problem, to the PP de Lugo and Fepesca, in December 2015, and the union of the IGC since it expressed interest in the topic, in October 2016. On the other hand, we had the second part of the problem of these reducing coefficients, which was the proposal to amend the regulation and the Community register of the fishing fleet. And there the ISM, the Directorate-General for Commercial Marines and the SG Fisheries announced their intention to revise these coefficients once the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council is approved so as to define the characteristics of fishing vessels. The above-mentioned European Regulation is still in the process of being draft and will postpone its entry into force by the summer of 2017. Once this regulation has been defined, it would be good to start a definition of the coes, whenever, secondly, anachronisms — there have still been registered whaling boats at this point — and comparative aggravations — two vessels of the same quay fishing could have different coefficients. Given this current regulatory situation — which is recognised and envisaged for the entry into force of the said Regulation — it is necessary to give you a solution to update to date the said regulation to the actual circumstances of our fishing fleet. From Galicia we argue that once the new regulation is published, so the characteristics of the ships are defined, if it adapts to the Spanish regulations, including those of the coefficients, to standardise the circumstances for labour retirement. Why? Why even the coefficients? First, because today there are differences between vessels of the same barn, according to the tonage they have; two sailors fishing in the Great Sun may have different coefficients, if a fishing on a boat of less than 250 tons of crude log or more than 250 tons of crude log. There are -- as I said before -- anachronisms; there are registered whaling boats, which makes no sense right now. Because important technical issues must be introduced into current technological development. Before a freezer that was necessarily of a great gulf, today with technological advances a 25-meter boat may be wrecking all the seas of the world without any problem. In all the above, and with the idea of improving the state of well-being of this fisheries sector — I repeat — sensitive to any decision taken by the Government of Galicia, from this sensitivity of the People's Group and of the Galician Union itself, we propose: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to initiate, once the European Regulation enters into force so as to define the characteristics of fishing vessels, a process of dialogue towards the adequacy of the reduction coefficients of retirement age to the characteristics of marine-fishing activity in Galicia, whenever substantial changes in the operational reality of vessels and fishing practices demand this possibility of change." Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u65	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u66	Good day to all and all. It will allow me, Mr López, a member of the People's Party who has just spoken, that does not come out of my surprise. Because, in fact, the Directorate-General for the Merchant Navy has amended the application of the reduction coefficients to persons working on tall boats and, without warning the sector, Mr López, has made a change so that the reduction coefficients were applied only to those freezer vessels which had a height of more than 70 metres and capacity above a thousand tons. I mean, you made a change in the category of ships, and that change was in chain to affect the coefficients of the mariners aboard there, so that the rest of the other vessels, mainly long-lived, if you went to apply that 0.4% to apply lower coefficients to them. As the BNG was concerned about this situation, it led to the 8th Fisheries Commission, of this Parliament, on 20 January, an initiative to seek solutions to this issue; an initiative which reached the unanimous agreement, with transactions of the groups present there in that committee, and which reached the following text published: "The Galician Parliament shows its agreement to crews boarded on ships fishing in international waters, in its claim that 0.4% are applied in the reduction coefficients in the calculation of retirement age and urges the Government of Galicia to claim the Spanish Government and the Ministry of Development the following questions: 1. Review all pensions that have been settled with the current procedure to prevent discrimination against those who have historically been recognised 0.4 % and keep it for the rest of the crews of these vessels." I mean, we unanimously agreed that the sailors who, as a result of this Merchant Marine decision, had reduced their reduction coefficients if they were to keep them on their own. "2. To request a deep review of the model based on the size of the vessel to go to another place where they really take into account the real conditions of professional fishing activities, recognizing those with the greatest penoness and danger, are insoluble and cause sinlessness and high morbidity." With which, Mr. López, I do not understand what the initiative you present here today comes. I ask you: how much is the agreement made in this Parliament worth? Because this Parliament has agreed that I have just read it, and you come here today with an initiative that is a real downside, which says that what we agree is useless and that after a regulation comes into force, it turns out that the Commissioner responsible for the regulation says that he is disengaged from the Spanish Government's mistake in calculating those coefficients and that this regulation is only a regulation for the registration of the technical constructions of the fleet. I will leave it here to the President of Parliament to pass it on to the other groups. There is absolutely nothing in this regulation about the reduction coefficients. It is a technical regulation where the type of freezers, the technical characteristics, the type of storage, the type of GT; it is a register of vessels. I leave it to the President to bring it to the political groups, because you are referring to a regulation that, after entry into force and that the Commissioner says that never before February 2018 would come into force, he intends to leave a wet Parliament agreement saying that what we agreed will not be done and that a dialogue process will start to see what remains. It's a real ridicule to the agreement of this Parliament and the sailors, who can see in years the correction of a fundamental issue, such as their sweat or how they are not stolen four, five, three or two years old at their retirement age. With which, BNG we tabled an amendment, because the other day's agreement is improved. And the amendment of BNG is for two questions: for it to date what we agree on and for the agreement to review the reduction coefficients to be made immediately. If you had a little complaint about the conditions of the people of the sea, rather than dilating it and bringing here an initiative that says you should leave, study calmly, you'd say you'd do it right away. And then what we have added is — as if there were any doubts — that this regulation should be reviewed throughout the sea sector, for seafood — that is, for fishing but also for seafood — both in the extractive sector and in complementary activities and land, for the entire sea-related sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u68	...the height, the ramparts, the divers, the scissors... absolutely for everyone. With which, Mr. Lopez, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I ask you not to mock this Parliament, not to mock the sailors and to accept the BNG's initiative to improve what we have already agreed on. And, in any case, what I would ask them is that we can make a deal and install them to call the whole sector to a commission where they really explain the situation to speed up the deadlines, not to dilate them, Mr Lopez, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u70	Thank you. Good morning. The Socialist Party is concerned about this issue, it's the first thing I want to say, and it's worried about us because it's precisely about jobs that involve spending long seasons apart from the family. We're talking about people and families. To spend long seasons apart from families means to lose important events in life, such as deaths of relatives or births of children. If you get filled up with a picture or a message or you get a picture of a child on the high seas and maybe you have to wait two months to get to know him, that's what you're talking about here today, about people and families. And, as you well say in your explanatory statement, since 2007 nothing has been done, the last time was with President José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. And I want to name it with names and surnames because I understand that when a person is named here who was president or who was minister must do it with respect, names and surnames, and not address men or appoint men as "the White Lord" and women as "Maleni" or as "follchleric", because that, from this Parliament itself, what we are doing is promoting -- with these axes -- macho behaviors that are a bad example for our children and our children. And remember it, because we often see schools that come here with children. [[Applause]] The least we can do is to address ourselves with respect to those who have held positions of responsibility in this country. [[Murmurs.]] And he said, please, that, when we talk about these issues, we are concerned, because there are people and families behind us, and already because of the discrepancy between the Social Institute of the Navy and the Register of Ships and Ships of the Directorate-General of the Navy, which has been what Mr. López Crespo has told us all this time, the Socialist Party has already presented at the Congress of Members an initiative to clarify this matter; since the Congress of Deputies. And I explain all this, that it is families, that it is people and that we have already launched an initiative at the Congress of Members to say that we really care about this issue and that that is why we are presenting our amendment, because we have not just understood the initiative presented by the People's Party today. It registers it by means of an emergency in November, brings it into force in February — a different emergency concept — and also to initiate a dialogue process in the summer of 2017, when the European Union Regulation enters into force. And in the meantime, what are you going to do? If they are concerned about this, we suggest that they do not wait for the summer, call for a negotiating table where the economic and social agents of the sector are represented. They follow up on the negotiation of that regulation and don't wait until summer, they start now, and in addition, since they rule here and rule in Spain, they make themselves heard in Spain. If they are concerned, make suggestions in the negotiation that the Government of Spain would have to develop with such a regulation. Because they're making suggestions or it happens to them as in AP-9, that they don't hear them either? [[Applause]] As I told you, because of the importance that this subject is for us, people and families have not just understood this initiative, except that what they want is a headline in the media, but to see how they turn around too to put that headline and to see what they are committed to, to see what they explain. Tomorrow we'll find out on that headline. That is why we tabled this substitution amendment, because we believe that we must come to this Parliament, as you said, to present and vote initiatives that improve people's quality of life, not initiatives that are the publicity and political propaganda of the People's Group. If you think the same way as we do, you accept our amendment. And if they don't think so, we'll understand that with their initiatives, what they're going to do is look for headlines and come to consume parliamentary minutes, parliamentary time. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Merlo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u72	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared here an exposition of motives, but both the explanatory statement that Mr. López Crespo made as well as the interventions of the companions of the BNG and the PSdEG were already an exposition of motives and quite clear explanation. I'm going to go through the papers, and I'm going to basically summarize what I've seen in the last few days, I think we have to do about it. Yesterday, in several speeches by several representatives, Members and Members of the People's Group, we heard how they boasted of their absolute majority in this House, which I think very well, but do I not understand, from my humility, why we should use that majority, to make a GNP full of vague terms?, does a GNP that the same defends the rights of that reducing coefficient of the Greek sailors as it serves to cut it off? I don't think that would be a good use of most. If it's only good for this, to come here brag about most of that and say, we have most, we have most, and then we get to Madrid and untie your chest, lower your ear, come without AP-9 and come without defending these things, this can't be. We're talking about ships that in the Spanish state 91% of them are Germans. Therefore, in this House, this government of Mr. Feijóo and that government of Mr. Rajoy must come out of the defence of the farthest, most ironic, ultra-dominant of this sector. So what we have to do in this House is to articulate a GNP that allows that to happen. And that's not what we're bringing here. We have tabled this amendment precisely on those issues. I will not, of course, speak of what we are talking about the rights of workers who have acquired on their day and that we will all share in this House that are fundamental rights and that they are recognized by the penosity, by the danger, and so forth, and by many issues that have given them this reducing coefficient. Are we suggesting that a definition in the nomenclature of vessels which, of course, we share and which must be carried out, could lead to the loss of these workers' rights? I don't think so. So we have to try to escape the application of vague terms in our proposals, in our LNPs and try to do something more fundamental, more clearly, that does not insist, but demands. If they have a majority, they use it, they demand Mr. Rajoy to defend mainly these workers' rights, it can be no less. We're not here to ask, we're here to demand these kinds of issues, especially because we're the Autonomous Government, which has 91% of those vessels affected by the theme of the reduction coefficient. The amendment we put forward goes exactly on that line. We share the analysis, we share the explanatory statement and we also share what was discussed in the committee, but that's no obstacle to making such a vague approach. Because, I mean, if I want to interpret the LNP that you put here on the table, I can practically defend that coefficient to be kept or reduced, if it's ditamined, given that. And there's another question: talk, start dialogues to solve it. With whom will the dialogues start? I think it would be necessary to say that we're going to start talks with the sector, and that doesn't put the GNP on it either. So we're going to amend that, because we can talk to a lot of people, what happens is that often it's not the same thing to defend the interests of workers in a sector that defends a sector; it's not the same, it's compatible, but it's not the same. So what I want is for the industry to defend itself and for the workers to defend themselves. And that is the line that we put forward in that amendment to replace the GNP, in which we say that: "The Parliament urges the Galician Union to demand the Government of the State to maintain the reduction coefficients until the entry of the European Regulation so that the characteristics of fishing vessels are defined, and, once it enters into force, to initiate a process of dialogue with the sector towards maintenance and improve the reduction coefficients of retirement age to the characteristics of maritime fishing activity in Galicia, whenever substantial changes in the operational reality of vessels and maritime practices demand this possibility of change." And that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u73	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. López Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u74	Yes, president. Mrs BNG, do you think that wheat is a bad year for a long time? Does it seem to you that this Parliament brings the initiatives over and over again it is to disregard your work? It's not to despise your work, it's to show... I'd tell you that this PNL presented by urgency, I don't have the security, but maybe it was before you brought it to the commission. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry; if it wasn't, I believe you, I have a lot of faith in you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] I think it is important that initiatives be brought in in this Parliament, and the more often, it is not a problem. And, of course, what you are not going to take away from the People's Group of this Parliament and the Council of the Sea of the Government of Galicia is the exquisite sensitivity you have to perceive the penalties for this sector. I'll deal with this with Mrs. Toja from the PSOE. I've come here to talk about a reduction coefficient initiative. If you want to reproduce what is being heard in this House by other critics, we can talk about it. I had to listen here to the BNG Group's voicer who tells me that PP people are trapped in democracy; and I told myself, in 2017, with 67 years of life, and I listened to it historically, by the way, in an alarm and a fall of temper. I hear a Member of your group, of the South PSOE, saying that the PP does not make budgets rationally, it does them with ideology, and I hear them historically and also with another drop of temper. I hear a marine Mr de En Marea say: by adopting the Accompanying Law, you will commit a democratic assault. I don't want to come here to reproduce that. I want and the People's Party wants to come here to solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks and, in this case, are the problems of the sailors who retire. [[Applause]] What are you going to tell me about the sailors who, walking the world forward, didn't know when a little boy started to say the first word, they didn't know when the first tooth fell and, if they wanted to tell the woman "I'll follow you very much," they had to spend a week's salary on the boat's phone. What do you come to tell us? Are we coming to put on the human sensibility that we all have in the People's Party? Don't do it, we know it. And that's why now, since the exercise of the power of the Galician Union, as far as possible and the current legislation—the president said in the morning—from loyalty, from legality and from the common sense, the People's Group will make the sailors of our Galicia—those of whom the representative of En Marea speaks—can have a decent retirement and the reducing coefficients benefit them for their retirement. [[Applause]] Don't talk about machisms talking about the sea. Look, I'm going to tell you one thing, and I don't say it again here: since two four-year-olds play with each other and one tells the other "games like a girl," until a husband stabs her his wife there's a process of biological and psychological evolution to be treated. And that's pure and hard machismo. At PP we condemn him and feel him, and we resent ourselves just like you, progressive forces, like you. [[Applause]] I know you people at the PP want to ban our right to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u76	...sensitive to society. I'm done, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u77	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u78	In any case, I mean that the amendments to the PSOE can't be admitted because it seems that your colleagues don't understand the negotiations that are taking place. The one from the Block could understand it, but I see, by his intervention, that they will not remove the word "immediately." That's what we can't do, because it would go against the third part, Mr President, which was the common sense. Common sense says we have to go along with the regulations. And finally, the amendment of En Marea, we have no problem accepting it, for one reason, because it's the same as ours. The truth is a pleonymism to say with whom we start the dialogue: of course, with the sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u79	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with Law 1/2012 of 29 February, on temporary measures in certain public employment matters of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, as well as the V Single Collective Convention
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u80	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u81	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u82	Thank you, President. So today we bring back the debate the inconsistencies of a government that, while supporting, on the one hand, a supposed economic recovery based on macroeconomic data, still maintains, however, cuts for workers and workers made, applied, covering precisely that "crisis-stafa" and the fiscal restrictions imposed upon them following the adoption of Article 135 adopted by the two major parties. After the salary and work cuts to public staff applied by successive central governments since the beginning of the crisis, we had to see, in addition, how the autonomous Government stretched more, practically like a chip, its labour and social rights by adopting a law, in this case to 1/2012, of temporary measures in certain public employment matters, which it suspended, as its honourable ministers already know, various precepts of the V Single Collective Convention of the Workers of the Galician Union; a rule which has a temporal character, as stated in the explanatory statement itself, linked to the persistence of economic circumstances which, according to the Government, motivated its adoption in 2012; a rule which ushers the right to collective bargaining and suspends such important rights as time compensation for actual Sundays and holidays, the social action fund, which helped to achieve certain situations of labour precaution, the right to the eater in the centres with 24 hours's continuous activity; However, in the name of that holy deficit and the justification for a poor economic management, impunity was suspended for labour rights achieved by workers and workers. A rule with an article suspending, in addition, the content of Article 19 of the V Single Collective Labour Convention, also affecting the right to rest for the public; staff who have suffered, in addition, the cuts of staff, with a brutal increase in workloads, not replacement of casualties and vacations and who, after suffering the ill-practice of the Social Policy Council — because they are the workers and workers of the Social Policy Council who have suffered one and one of the most affected by this suspension of the rights of the V Collective Convention — after suffering the bad spell four years followed in the organization of their employment posters, with three judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia against, this year, February 2017, they continue to suffer the misfortune of an administration that follows without having, on February 2017, the employment poster for the same year 2017. There has also been no public job offer call since 2005, there has been no transfer invitation and now they also want to apply to them a process of unnegotiated operation with representatives of workers and workers; therefore conditions imposed by the Public Service. We want the reconciliation of work and personal life, the obligation to work holidays without an option, the failure to comply with the right to train workers and workers, and what is the worst, that increase in the workload has meaning, as we have discussed on other occasions, a very dangerous increase in work accidents at the workplace, which went from 396 to 454 in 2015, and the casualties due to work accidents, from 151 to 235. Where is the effectiveness of this measure? Accidents that, in addition, focus mainly on the Social Policy Council, specifically on nursing assistants, caregivers, cleaning staff and waitresses and waitresses. Ladies and gentlemen, we wondered how it might be possible to approve again, as happened yesterday, a law of tax and administrative measures that four years later, five years later, no longer repeals this law, despite the government's support for an improvement or alleged economic recovery. We wonder what is the reason for continuing this attack on the work rights of public employees. From Marea we understand that public staff should be valued and, precisely, they should be taken care of; they must be valued, not what is being done at present, and therefore to maintain their rights and not to trample them, as has been done since 2012. So, simply once again in this non-law proposal and despite the vote of the Law on tax and administrative measures, we again insist on demanding that this Law should be repealed precisely 1/2012 and that the Fifth Collective Staff Convention of Galician Union should be fully recovered. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u84	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Sometimes the rules, the laws, have expositions of reasons that try to explain the meaning of the norm, the regulation, the systematic one that contains, but the truth is, sometimes the exposures of motives are far from fulfilled, right? But what happens is that sometimes the rules, logically, also have a number of provisions, such as the case of Law 1/2012, and as the proposal for the initiative, which sets out in its last single provision, precisely, that the measures provided for in this law will be reviewed within two years of its entry into force, depending on the evolution of Galicia's real gross domestic product and the primary savings of budgets. I mean, this law even had to be reviewed at the age of two. We are not aware that such a revision had been made in an explicit way, and of course, as previously presented, the economic circumstances of reducing public deficit and the macroeconomic forecasts that justified this law's statement of reasons, so in the Government's submission to the Government in defending the 2017 budgets, we could say that they have expired. However, the Law itself adopted yesterday and the Budget Law itself adopted on Monday by the only popular majority do not comply precisely with what it has to comply with, which would be the derogation of this Law 1/2012. I mean, the government itself is not promoting compliance with its own standards. To this we should add that in this matter any channel of collective bargaining has been broken in an absolute way, both when it was passed in 2012 and when it was trying to make changes or when it was already making effective changes to these cuts of public personnel through, as it said, both the Budgets Act and the Measurements Act, which allow the luxury of making some minor modification in Law 1/2012, which means that it remains in its absolute vigil. For our part — which, moreover, we have already put forward initiatives in the same sense — we share in an absolute way the spirit of the non-law proposition presented by the proposed group and, in this sense, does call our attention on the part of the People's Party, in maintaining the vigency of this law, as the same coherence is not maintained with that act, for example, of potential staff or of government salary increases, etc. We don't like it either, in the field of public employment — because it's certainly the messages we've already received — that if we move purely binary messages like those that are traditionally transferring the People's Party; that is, tell us about the good, the bad, about us, about chaos, austerity or about waste. I mean, reality is rather more complex than this kind of kind of, as has been said many times, postfactual policy that tries to confuse public opinion and that tries to confuse, in this case, 90,000 public employees, and that's not what the data we have on the table presents to us. We, on our part, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, support this proposal, what happens is that, for reasons of legal certainty, it presents a slaughter in that derogation from the two precepts that are marked in the non-law proposal, it will not be interpreted that some of these precepts had been in some of the groups — I suppose — the intention of them to maintain their vigil. I mean, we understand that the repeal of the law would require a series of changes in other rules, with the necessary collective negotiation in this matter, but, in fact, by legal certainty, we make these two clarifications in the derogation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u85	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u86	Yes, very good morning. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I suppose the People's Group, as usual, will blame the Bipartite for signing the workers' agreement and for approving in 2008 labour rights, social rights and pay for public administration staff as well. The reality is another, the reality is that you give an explanation of the crisis. It seems that it was also the fault of the Bipartite or certain measures taken at certain times in governments, but the crisis really has other causes, the crisis has some guilty ones, which is a cruel, corrupt and unjust economic system, a system based on speculation, financial speculation, which put on its knees to governments and forced them to take measures that caused a gigantic hole in the public accounts of deficit and debt to cover that hole caused by the big bank, by financial speculation. The fact is that such action by governments was possible because there was a great deal of agreement between the majority political forces at European level that had their translation into the Spanish State in the amendment to Article 135 of the Constitution, which established that imposition of control over the deficit in budgetary stability. So there are also shared responsibilities here; we have to say it, that's right. The reality is that these legislative changes, these political decisions that were made by such pressure from the great capital, from the big bank and by covering up their shames and above all their big hole, were caused by a great policy, a great theft; a great policy of rights, social rights and also labour and income rights, which, above all, adversely affected the working class, also the small and medium-sized company and the autonomous people. What was seen over these years was a brutal, uncommon change in the distribution of wealth. The crisis had a consequence, which was that wealth and income passed to those who had the most, which, as we know -- it is now demonstrated by figures -- has more and more wealth, while those who have less and less have less and less. That is the consequence of this situation. One of the victims of these policies, one of the main victims of these policies, was the staff in the service of the Public Service, which was marked as a scapegoat. It seems to have been a sort of privileged caste, then, it was necessary to go through this collective in the form of persecution and in the form of spoliation of labour rights, income and also of all that happened, which has already been reported here, with the public services, in the form of cuts, of loss of staff, of loss of jobs and of working conditions; and with concrete decisions, in addition, that have occurred during these years of successive labour reforms which have affected the staff in the service of the Public Administration, starting with the reduction of 5% of the salary of all public administration staff, approved by the Socialist Government of Mr. Zapatero. And one step in this escalation of the pursuit of labour and income rights of civil servants was Law 1/2012, approved by the Government of the People's Party in Galicia, which led to a unilateral change in the Labour Workers' Convention, as has already been said, and the abolition of the rights of all employees of the Administration's staff, of employees, but of all employees of the Public Administration, for example by penalizing illness, with wage reductions for work casualties, the reduction of wages and the working hours, the abolition of the social action fund, the reduction of business days and increases in the working day, with all the consequences that have been discussed here. All of this must also be added to you the elimination of extra payments from 2013 — by the way, there were governments that refused to apply this measure, which were brave, and, by the way, that were denounced for that, but there were governments that did not take these measures to eliminate extra payments, wage freezes, etc., etc. In total, with all these measures, the loss of purchasing power of public administration staff is estimated at 30%; 30% of income loss, income loss over all these years, also as a result of increased IPC and other tax measures. So we're talking about a real seizure -- that's how you can call it -- of income, of 30% of income, and also of a law enforcement officer who had consolidated, won and won the civil service staff. And this, in addition, with the great impact it has on economic activity and consumption, also with serious consequences. So it was already said here, the government at that time said they were temporary measures, that they were motivated by extraordinary circumstances, that there would be a review after two years... There was no revision...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u87	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u88	...they came to stay. So what we're telling you here is that you don't use this situation as an excuse to attack the civil service's rights and return labor rights and also police income, because it's fair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u89	Thank you, Mr Bará. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Set up the tide group to derogate from plan to Law 1/2012 and completely restore the V Collective Convention. For its part, the Socialist Party is proposing a non-radical amendment in which it simply demands to repeal certain aspects of this law. The first point in this proposal, Mrs Solla, is the confusion, because you, first of all, in the explanatory statement seem to insist solely on lifting the suspension of the paragraphs of the V Convention which are left suspended, but nevertheless in the proposed part, what you are asking is to completely repeal the law, an integral derogation, when, of eight articles which have the law, only one suspends the aspects of the collective agreement. If they want to lift the suspension of the aspects of the collective agreement, I believe that by asking for the derogation of a single article, it would be sufficient for their intentions. It is clear, Mrs. Solla, that if the case had been raised that we must, for example, fix the engine on a ship, which is what fails, with that way of thinking you would do not fix the engine but sink the ship, and thus solve the problem, Mrs. Solla. This is their way of acting. But this law, as stated in its explanatory statement, was dictated in an exceptional situation in which the maintenance of exceptions derived from the application of the labour law regime was not admissible and it was necessary to suspend the validity of certain articles of the V Collective Convention, among them, precisely those which covered until then the realization of a day significantly lower than that established in the Royal Decree Law 20/2011, which states that the ordinary working day of all employees of the Board should have a weekly average of not less than 37 hours and thirty minutes. Mr. Bará, I'm not going to talk about the Bipartite, I'm just telling you that from the years 2005 to 2009, where you've been a government you know, you've generated 15,000 more public jobs and in the box there were 2,000 million euros less. From there you draw, Mr Bará, your conclusions. All of this, by the way, watered with "Cuban mojitos." And that whole party, Mr. Bará, you had to pay and we have to keep paying for it, indeed. [[Murmurs.]] I'm not going to talk about the Bipartite, but, I insist, you draw the conclusions: 15,000 public jobs over four years and 2,000 million euros less. And the purpose of this law, precisely, was to maintain, without prejudice, the provision of public services, reduce the deficit and deal with this situation, which has indeed worsened with the years and the economic crisis. This measure may be adopted on the basis of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, which, in Article 38.10, allows for a review of the working conditions of staff members or employees when they deal with serious causes of public interest arising from a substantial change in economic circumstances. But it has to be said that, throughout 2016, the Galician Union had to continue with this line of containment, although since its entry into force — although they have to recognise it — as the economic situation is improving gradually some of the aspects that have been affected by it, such as the recovery of the total extra and the additional payments of 2012, along 2016, and also the permits for private affairs and vacations, depending on antiquity, in the last quarter of 2015. For the rest of permits and vacations, as well as for salaries on all temporary disability assumptions, the maximum that allows basic state legislation is being applied in Galicia, as is also the rate of replacement of troops, which in our community reaches the maximum limit that allows the State Budget Act. And so, after exceeding a 0% replacement rate between the years 2012 and 2015, for 2016, a replenishment rate of up to one hundred percent was established in certain priority sectors and up to a maximum of 50% in non-priority sectors, always, of course, that respected the budgetary provisions of Chapter I. In our community this limitation was materialized through Law 12/2015, of general budgets of the Galician Union, which authorized a public job offer in 100 percent. However, although the Greek Budget Act of 2016 maintained the suspension of Article 19 of the V Convention, during 2016 — as you know — actions were carried out to improve these working conditions for workers by creating a new RPT with new squares in categories and centres with greater workload. This has allowed us to reduce the workload, increase the chances of enjoying days of personal affairs and also an important improvement in the possibility of reconciling work and family life. The Galician Union, ladies and gentlemen, continues to work on that line, trying to maintain that balance between service provision and job creation, while also trying to conjugate the prompt restitution of the rights affected by these measures. The Councillor of Fairy announced, in the presentation of the 2017 budgets, that the Board will negotiate and continue to negotiate with trade union organisations the adoption this year of a public job offer which at least equals the number of squares in 2016. Among the novelties included in the 2017 budget are the remuneration of payment of the specific supplement in the extra payments to the public employees as a whole, a measure agreed — precisely because the unions can be agreed — with the trade unions that will undoubtedly benefit the staff of the Union, health, education, universities and concerted education. Of course, with the tides it's hard to reach some sort of agreement, but fortunately, there are trade union organizations sensitive to the public service with which agreements can be reached. He has reached agreements and he will continue to reach agreements to improve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u92	...as far as possible, the working conditions of public employees. So we are not going to support this initiative, which we believe is unusual, easy to sell, very easy to sell, but impossible to apply, if one wants to respect the maintenance and balance of public services. So this is a rule that has enabled us to cope with the economic crisis and reduce the public deficit to achieve a balance situation, I insist, without undermining the provision of essential public services. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u93	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u94	Thank you, President. Thanks to the BNG and the Socialist Party for supporting the initiative. As for the amendment, we will try to arrive at a transaction, not for any negative reason, but because, precisely, article 8 has already been repealed in Act 1/2016, the Transparency and Good Government Act. And in relation to the other article, obviously, to repeal a law does not allow a loose article, but we can certainly reach an agreement after how to draft it, precisely because the proposal made by the Socialist Party is to keep that article that speaks of the supplements of the former high offices of the Galician Union. I honestly didn't expect much either from the People's Party, but they didn't give a single argument, precisely, because they were voting for an initiative that violates a law of the Galician Union. That is, the Galician Union — the Galician People's Party's Union — adopts in 2012 a rule that requires a review two years later and you systematically vote against its own rule. It is, frankly, incomprehensible, but usual in the People's Party Government. And, frankly, if you say that with unions you can make a deal, I'm very glad, but I don't explain, on the other hand, how, however, you don't call them to deal with work shifts or, for example, you don't call them to talk about that shift from staff to staff, when, however, you approve it in a law, without any kind of negotiation with representatives, workers and workers. Well, speaking is free and here it goes up to the rostrum to say absolutely nothing. So I remember that, in one of the first interventions I had in a commission after the entry into Parliament in 2012, the People's Party's Lords laughed at my intervention when I spoke of the scam of the crisis, of the hateful debt, etc., and four years later we have a scam, with a loss of 8,000 million euros on the sale of the boxes, an increase of Galician debt over 10,500 million euros and a situation in which, despite all this, we continue to maintain cuts for workers and workers and for public professionals. That's the reality. [[Applause]] It's just that not only have you been able to improve even one cent of the country's economy, but they're still keeping the cuts to the working class, and after four years and when, in addition, you say that, in fact, there's macroeconomic data justifying an exit from the crisis, they keep a cut on the rights of staff that is not justified. And yes, we want the full law to be repealed — with the exception of this article as regards what we will come to an agreement — not only Article 6 which affects the Fifth Collective Convention, because it is the other articles which affect, precisely, the social action fund, the hourly compensation of Sundays and holidays, the right to a dining room and the right to supplement for temporary disability; rights which, I repeat, have been achieved by workers and workers with the labor union struggle. So there's no reason for you to keep this cut. We will bring this initiative back here, because it seems that you are totally insensitive to the data I have just given of increasing accidents at work, especially in the Social Policy Council. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the action to be carried out by the Greek Government and the demand to be made by the Central Government in connection with the cause of mariners belonging to the Long Hope Association in the Norwegian courts for the recognition of their right to receive from that State retirement pensions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u96	There is an amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u97	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u98	Good day again to all and to all, and especially to the representatives of the Long Hope association, who accompany us today in the rostrum. They will be there following this debate. Today we have to go back to this Parliament to discuss an initiative that has already been dealt with, not in different terms, but on too many occasions in this Parliament, and on the fact that there are already unanimous agreements of the parliamentary groups representing this House in the past legislation, on the previous and I hope that in this House too. But it is very sad that, six years after the first initiative was adopted in this Parliament in favour of the Long Hope sailors, we have to deal with this issue again. It seems, therefore, a sad day of the Marmota, because it was in 2010 when, the initiative of the Nationalist Block Galego, this Parliament unanimously agreed to urge the German Government to maintain a firm position before the Spanish Government to demand the recognition of the rights of the Greek sailors to Norway. We're talking about the problem of about 12,000 sailors in the Spanish state, of which about 8,000 are Germans; 8,000 Welsh sailors who worked in the Norwegian merchant navy, and what they're asking is that they be given the right to their pension. Norway remains unrecognizable of this right to retire from these sailors who have embarked until 1994, and the Spanish State does not recognize that period of boarding for the purposes of social security. With which, we've found that many of these people are in a situation of real helplessness and even in a really complicated economic situation, because they can't get the pensions they're receiving after years of working, after having committed the only crime of having to emigrate, of having to look for their lives in order to get out of here because in Galicia it wasn't possible. Norway has taxed them, if they have paid the equivalent of the IRPF. They were paying taxes and taxes like any citizen of that country, because it was the condition that Norway was putting, that they were bottled up there to be able to work, which could assume nearly a third of their wages, 40% of their wages, which, religiously, year after year, paid in taxes. But the situation they have today is that they don't have that right to retirement. We are therefore faced with a claim that is not new. Long Hope's collective has been claiming for years and it's been a long time in an intense claim work, in writing, with complaints, with demonstrations, with meetings, with visits to Norway itself. The list of actions carried out by these sailors is beginning to be virtually endless. They held meetings with the Ombudsman of the people of Norway, with the Ambassador of Spain in Norway, with the European Union Ambassador in Norway, with the union officials; they were at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Madrid, at the Norwegian Embassy in the Spanish State; they held meetings at the Congress of Deputies, held meetings in this Parliament again and again, repeatedly, they traveled to Luxembourg for an oral view to the Court of Justice for a case similar to that of them, although in this case it was between two states of the European Union; they spoke on the streets so that they could know their problem and if they were given a solution... But unfortunately, all these demonstrations, all this collective work done by people retired in their immense majority, already very old, since they were not recognized and had no answer, which was that Norway recognized their rights. Unfortunately, neither have his actions been accompanied, his collective work, for whom he should accompany them, the Greek Government, who has an obligation to defend the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. Long Hope sailors went from Madrid to Brussels, Luxembourg, Norway, to all these places, but what they couldn't get was that the president of the board had received them. Today, after years of struggle, they haven't managed to get Mr. Núñez Feijóo to devote five minutes of his time to him so that they could expose his problem, nor did they get firm support, in fact, from the Spanish Government. They were in Madrid yesterday and they come a little hopeful because the Foreign Minister again had good words with them, and told them again that if diplomatic management does not give effect, we will support the judicial channels. But again they're still words, there's no firm commitment for the Spanish state to do what it has to do, which is to sue the kingdom of Norway. We regret at the BNG that, after all these proceedings, after the unanimous agreements of this Parliament, which admitted that its claim was fair — and with unanimous votes it decided that if it was fair — there is no action by the Spanish State. I am sure that, if instead of being sailors, they were a collective with residence in Castellana, with residence in Moraleja, or they were entrepreneurs of the Ibex 35, if there would have been powerful performances by the Spanish State. I have no doubt that this would have been the case. Because the Spanish State has acted so far with cowardice, and I say with cowardice because what it has done has almost always been sent to technicians, in some cases to ministers, but it has never had a real commitment to action. The Spanish Government's political decision was not to do anything, it was, beyond good words, not to act. And in the face of this disillusionment, what the sailors themselves had to do was individually file these demands against Norway. This means that they have to pay for their pocket — which they have already spent some really important amounts for their economies — and that, in addition, that procedure is much longer, we can be talking about four or five years in which, if the Government of the State had done what it had to do, it would have brought that case against the State of Norway. That's why today's BNG brings this initiative back here, brings this initiative back because Long Hope sailors didn't take the towel, of course, they're talking about the right they acquired with their sweat. And on January 12, they sent a letter to the President of the Spanish Government — Mr. Rajoy — explaining the situation – part of what I have just exposed here today – and telling him that, after the Spanish Government refused to intervene in an interstate demand, it was the very ones who had to resort to the procedural route of individual demand against Norway. We have been forced to use this processal remedy, which is, in comparison with the way of interstate demands, more widely over time, people involved turn out to be of very advanced age in many cases and also more cost economically for the people and families involved, which aggravates their delicate economic situation, because we must not forget that many of them live in situations of truly crying need because of the disappearance in what they live. However, we continue to dread the need for the Government of the State to assume the responsibility to defend what was in its day an emigrant, an interstate demand. For this reason, in his position as President of Government, we ask him what BNG now brings here. They ask the same thing as has already been agreed by this Parliament and the same thing that BNG today brings here to this Parliament, which is to demand from the Central Government the immediate claim to the Norwegian Government of the refund of fees charged irregularly and to interpose, under Article 33 of the European Convention on Human Rights, a request before the European Court of Human Rights against the Kingdom of Norway, for failure to comply with the European Convention on Human Rights, for violating the prohibition of discrimination by nationality and for requiring residence for the inclusion in the Norwegian Social Security system of our emigrant workers aboard their ships when, on the other hand, the Norwegian nationals employed on the same ships were not required, without objective and reasonable justification for this. We call on the Spanish State present to demand against Norway, to pressure Norway. It's compatible with the demand they've submitted. It would increase the chances of success, that it would be fair and that the Spanish State would intervene in this demand, in addition to assuming...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u99	Finish when you can.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u100	I insist it's fair. The Greek sailors need more than good words, they need a firm commitment from the Spanish state, and that that commitment becomes real, that takes place in this statement of demand, that goes from good words to good deeds, and the facts are that interfere with that demand. Waiting for the support of the rest of the groups, nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. It is true, as the spokesman for the BNG pointed out, that once again we return to the House with all the problems of the sailors, of the former sailors aboard the Norwegian merchants at that time, from the 1960s to the 1990s, and sometimes one has a feeling of political impotence, of parliamentary impotence, because we see with absolute frustration — and I suppose those who see him with absolute frustration are, precisely, affected — as the decisions even unanimous in this Parliament have little echo in Madrid. I have here the date, on 28 May 2015, the Directorate-General for Institutional and Parliamentary Relations of the Galician Council sent to the Ministry of Employment and Social Security precisely the agreement of this Parliament on 14 April 2015. And so we continue, and above all so follow the former sailors aboard the Norwegian merchants at today's date. I would also like to recall once again the intervention in that parliamentary debate where, in a motion for a non-law on this very matter, tabled by our parliamentary group, by the People's Group Member Martínez Sierra, it was clear that he wanted to clarify once again the position of the People's Party, and said, "It goes ahead with our solidarity with the actions carried out by both the sailors on a personal basis and through the Long Hope Association, which we understand" — he said — "they are not seeking anything but the recognition of a right which, for reason and justice, corresponds to them"; and which, therefore, they would vote favourably. These were the statements of the People's Group, but for now, after all the relations, all the interviews and all the proceedings carried out before the various institutional representatives, and all the diplomatic actions, have not brought this issue forward. Now the Long Hope Association — as I understand it — has a judicial review of the Norwegian courts in the next few days, I think it's April 3, 4 and 5. And that's why, precisely, I think it's most fitting to speak again in this House of this initiative. That is why we tabled an amendment to addendum to the GNP submitted by the BNG also urging Parliament to urge the German Government to make itself humane in this case. That is to say, it does not only serve diplomatic action, nor does it seem to be serving the demand that it be brought forward in accordance with Article 33 of the European Convention on Human Rights, but that we, in the light of this initiated case and the view that it has the association in the courts of Norway, urge — and we have also presented it on some initiative — that precisely the Council of Galicia is people in this case. That is the meaning of our initiative. We would like the words of the new Foreign Minister to be true in this new diplomatic action. We fear — because the precedents we have there — that this action may not obtain the fruits that the Norwegian sailors deserve, the Long Hope Association, and that is why we insist that this time the Union commit itself firmly to represent them and to personate them in this cause. We believe Galicia has a historical debt with all these sailors; we speak of more than 10,000 people affected. And it seems very good to us that the image of Castro Rosalía is going on some of the Norwegian aircraft, but the important thing is that Norway meets the commitments it has with the sailors. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. The Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea has the floor to Mrs Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u104	Good morning, president, comrades, comrades. The En Marea Group can only support this initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, subscribe to each of the words, both those expressed by the honourable Member who defended this initiative and those of the comrade of the Galician Socialist Party, and greet the fighters who are up there and who have made this situation so dramatic visible. We would like to express, by adding some questions to which we have already expressed ourselves, that we are horrified by the passivity and lack of commitment that the People's Party of Galicia is having to face no one who is suffering, also by the Government of Mr Rajoy — another pro-Glewish— and although here in this House certain issues are approved unanimously, as with AP-9 and with other proposals, they do not take any note of them, and what they earn with an absolute majority, who are always restricting us, and who is pioneering in the rest of the state. It's just that, as they say so many times, we have to repeat it too, that the President of the Government doesn't care about his absolute majority. The situation of the sailors who are grouped into the Long Hope Association is a clear discriminatory situation: 8,000 sailors who are not recognized in their rights by the Government of Norway and who have also had to be paying 50 percent of their salary to Norway without even knowing it or having no right to anything, without being informed by the Spanish State or by the subsequent governments, and you seem to care. I'd like to know how the lords of the People's Party would feel if they were paying taxes now that they were not entitled to anything, and in a foreign country and with a labour situation as hard as the Norwegian sailors' working days were on these ships. Maybe those of us who have family or parents who were on these boats know what we're talking about. It's very convenient to be sitting here, but you don't care because they have their privileges very well settled. [[Murmurs.]] What's clear... yes, yes, that's right, we all know, or are there no privileges? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't you have your privileges here? Home!, some of us renounced more privileges... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u105	They don't dialogue. Please be quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u106	But don't get nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u107	You keep talking and don't incregate Members.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u108	Since En Marea it's not from now on that we've been defending these kinds of claims, we've been defending them for some time. The AGE Group has already done so with its previous spokesman, who accompanied them by Europe in their demands, Juan Fajardo, and we follow. Yesterday the Group of the United States We can, the Confederal Group of what is part of the Marea Group, held a similar initiative that presented Senator Vanessa Angustia, and was debated in the capital of the state. Because these sailors had to defend themselves before the P.P. government passatism, both in Galicia and at the state level, and when they had two absolutes. However, it gave them quite the same. They had to travel — as the representative of the BNG said — more than 50 cities had to be throughout Galicia, they had to be in Europe, in the capital... and yet they had no use. And Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Alfonso Maria Dastis, has committed himself to finding a solution to this problem by presenting a number of measures. Let's hope they're more successful because until now, of all they promised, they haven't done anything at all. They ask for time, they say we have to be patient. I was telling you precisely, with regard to the complaint — which has already been said and I do not want to repeat it — that they have the trial on April 3, 4 and 5, in Norway, and then they would have recourse to the Human Rights Tribunal in Strasbourg and have a judiciary that we already know how long it is. But, of course, the problem is that some of these sailors are over 80 years old, who have been working like real animals their whole life—they have been working very hard in an inhuman way—and many have already died before they could get their pension. Does that sound normal to you? Do you think it's normal for some to die without receiving a pension? Would you like a father of yours or a grandfather? Because I believe that, between political debate and so much show here, which is often given in this House, we must start thinking a little about people, start having a little bit of humanity and working — because they have an absolute majority, as they say — for the people's rights to defend it. Because, however, if you know Mr. Basanta, during the electoral period, go through the back door, in secret meetings, and scare almost some of them to blackmail them so they stop mobilising, promising them four bitches to shut their mouths. And so, of course, we have the absolute majority of the People's Party. That's how you get the absolute majority of the People's Party. It's your modus operandi, it's the method. [[Murmurs.]] It's just that we've lived it in our families too, Mrs. Paula Prado. This is your modus operandi forever. So instead of meeting with Norwegian companies to sell the Galician coast to aquaculture companies — which for that they know how to meet Norway and have a lot of tunes —... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u110	...please have a little humanity and really support this collective, support these initiatives, fight in Madrid and act like a government at the height of the Greeks and the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u112	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u113	Think about people and do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u114	Thank you very much. It's over. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr López Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. We also consider ourselves entitled to greet the sailors of Long Hope. You know about our contributions in other political functions that aren't these. The contribution will be the same. As long as you do not achieve your goal, the People's Party of Parliament of Galicia and the People's Party of Galicia will walk side by side with you. Your goal is ours. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Voicer of In Marea, your marine origin has a different component than I thought. I invite you — I apologize for this invitation — to see your intervention reproduced here and to reflect on your political situation. I think there's a concordance between what you bring and what you get from the Greek neighborhood. Stirring the masses is very easy; solving their problems is more difficult. [[Applause]] How dare you say that the German Government has abandoned the Long Hope sailors? I've already said it in the previous intervention, do you think we don't know that these sailors spent them housed?, that they spent a week's wages — I repeat — on telling their lady: "I love you very much, Mary, how is our son?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh [[Applause]] They spent a week's pay. And then, when he arrived at his retirement age, they didn't have it. [[Murmurs.]] But since the German Government found out... Mrs. BNG's voicer, you can interrupt me... [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u116	Please. Please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u117	You can interrupt me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u118	Excuse me a moment, sir... please. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I ask them to keep the order in the plenary, and I'm not going to repeat it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u119	Mrs. López...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u120	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u121	...it's very eloquent, but of the eloquence we speak, if you like, in private. Please let me talk and, when I'm done speaking, talk to you when I touch you. Let's see, I said, Mrs. BGN's voicer, that it didn't stop or start this in 2010. In 2009, when this Government of the People's Party arrives at Galicia, the Counsellor, Ms. Rosa Quintana, learns of the subject, automatically sets out to work on it and takes it to the People's Government, takes it to the State Government and takes it to Damanakis to the European Union. What's he got? He doesn't get much, but he doesn't stand still, he doesn't leave them destitute. Sometimes in politics, following loyalty, legality and common sense, the steps are much longer, but the results can be good. And that's what we want for the representatives and for the whole Long Hope collective. Let's see, what's clear is that it's changed almost everything since yesterday. Yesterday the Foreign Minister went to the Senate and in the Senate they told him that it would be better if he followed the legal procedure in the Norwegian order, and once he had finished that open process, according to the Norwegian order, the Spanish State would intervene. This is what's left. They're interviewing each other. And right now is the time to leave the representatives of Long Hope with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and to come back here and tell us how the negotiations are going, because they will certainly achieve their goals more easily since the commitment the Minister made yesterday. The minister clearly says he knows that he has not achieved much with this collective, but he knows that he will be working to get all he can, that he will, for sure, get the retirement rights of these sailors. The minister said, "What I want to say is that an action by the individuals affected before the court offers more guarantee of obtaining a favorable judgment than a State-to-State initiative." So we're going to finish this particular initiative and then we're going to see what the Spanish State is doing. Of course, saying that the Government sent technicians, Mrs. BNG... and what do you want me to send the Government to solve a legal problem, a legal problem? You want me to send politicians? I'm telling you for me, I don't have any idea. I was told by the secretary of the county: and where did you study law -- when he did an interpellation --? You have to go technical! Who went? Politicians? That's what you're going for! That's what you're going for! [[Applause]] But of course they have to go technical, they're the ones who know about it! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Of course, what the Government of Galicia is not going to do is leave these gentlemen alone. I, as a spokesperson for fishing and on behalf of the entire People's Group of this Parliament, commit myself again to you, step by step, your hand, until you achieve the goal, which is nothing other than that you get the retirement of as long as they gave the Norwegian state, but at the same time of so much happiness and resources that you brought here to our Galicia. [[Applause]] Thank you very much and count with us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. López Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u123	I'm sorry. I was told that we're going to vote on this BNG proposal, because it's something we've been working on for a long time and we want to end up supporting this proposal as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. López Crespo. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado Colors to finish the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u125	Well, first, I would like to thank the support expressed by all the groups to vote for this initiative, which is not from the BNG, is the initiative of the long-hope sailors, which the BNG has transcribed to us as they have asked and as such moved to the President of the Government, which is what they want; and what they need at the moment and from the very beginning is that the state is demanding, that is what they need. So, I'm going with respect to the amendment of the Socialist Party. I am not going to accept it because, having consulted on the subject, it turns out that the European Convention on Human Rights provides that I am only competent to make demands for those affected, NGOs or states. The Galician Union is not competent to be able to personate itself or to make this demand. What if—if there is agreement, in addition to what is written—is it possible to agree that the Council of Galicia is involved, which is involved for once, because in addition to the good words, what has the Government done, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party?, how many times have they been with the sailors in their pilgrimage?, how many times have they been with them in Madrid to put pressure on them?, how often did Núñez Feijóo have in his agenda the problem of the Norwegian sailors? They're 8,000 affected Greeks, who don't pay their pensions, how many times has it been a matter of state? That would have been a concern. [[Applause]] Don't come here with good words, don't come here with good words. How many times? But, you see, a problem that affects 8,000 Greeks, doesn't the President of the Government deserve it and doesn't deserve it to be put on the agenda, doesn't he deserve it to go to some interterritorial council, or that some time he goes to Madrid to take it to the agenda and put it on the table, and that he knocks it on the table saying that you have to solve it, and the state has to get involved in this issue? The BNG looks like it is, and the sailors look like it too. With which, I am blessed that we again approve the initiative by urging the Government. But in addition to doing so, what I ask — in the name of the sailors — is that the People's Party and the German Government do something more than stay well here, in parliamentary headquarters. Let the Government do something else and that, today's approval of this agreement, whatever it is to meet with them, that the President of the Government meets with them and transfers them directly to the Spanish Government who has to appeal or demand against the Kingdom of Norway. What he demands, because he looks at, the technicians, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have told them on several occasions that it is legally possible, that it is possible, that it is a political decision. What's needed is a political decision and technicians can't make it, they have to make it. And the Kingdom of Norway said the same thing, which is a political issue, and as they don't see pressure, they don't see pressure from the Spanish state, they don't politically do it; it's a political question that the Spanish state decides that the Welsh sailors deserve as much occupation as those of the IBEX 35, so of course, deserve as much occupation as those of the IBEX 35. And if the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u126	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u127	...in addition to good words, I wanted them to solve the problem, I'd crash on the table and exhale a solution, and the solution is not to wait for them to go one by one, they're going to pay...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u128	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u129	...from your pocket, but the state says...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u130	Mrs. Prado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u131	...this is a matter of state and we file a complaint against a state that is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u132	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u133	...by withholding the rights of our sailors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u134	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u135	That would be the solution. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u136	Thank you very much. So we moved on to the debate of the next non-legislation proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the tyre deposits used in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u137	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u138	Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. It's already becoming a social vice to dismemberment, associated with apparent cleanliness and cleanness. And I dare call it vice because they're antagonistic and live together. The shit you don't see, it doesn't exist, and we don't want to see it. If any of us ask in the street a traveler who is what is done with the old wheels of our cars, most likely he shrinks his shoulders and looks at us as if we were bugs of another world and continues to walk quietly. So what about the old wheels? Some — every time less — we live in the village, we see them as part of the landscape, weighing the silos so that the wind does not lift them up and destroy the contents, although also — every time less — they are being happily replaced by sandbags. Not long ago they were in fashion again, due to a fire of great proportions and the high concern contaminant that occurred in the Meseta. As soon as it happened, which still took a few days, we parked the matter and the wheels disappeared again from our sight, and there's the problem. But they're there. Since the early 1990s there has been a company in the Campos Group with facilities -- initially it was a ceramic, and it's still sitting -- in Lendo, Laracha, which picks up the most tires in our country. Also since then he has collected from workshops and oil industries used to recycle and reuse, at least so prays in the SME Project theory. In these facilities you can see from the outside a huge mountain of old tires waiting for us to know what. Our concelers' questions in the municipality of Laracha, periodically formulated to the municipal government, always had in response that they were waiting for the construction, by the same group of companies, of a recycling plant that was already under study, project and I don't know what. Well, all of this has been well-guided since the '90s. The mountain grew and grew. And the case is that we — the ones who use cars — paid a cannon for collecting and recycling both wheels and oils. By the way, recycle means to store, burn or perhaps bury? We don't think so. At Fene there were deposited — and I say there was why they were already treated — 877 tonnes, in Somozas 100 tons and in Lendo, Laracha, 34.968 tons, according to estimates. In May of last year representatives of these three municipalities and the councillor agreed to start retreat work in Fene in September for considering it the most dangerous place. But in September, the company responsible for carrying out the sica jobs dropped the contract, so the board had to prepare the new adjudication. On January 17th, the work began in Fene with a duration of between three and four weeks. You see, a correct treatment of these valuable materials, to this day, has been a direct re-use mix of the least damaged and the thickest to re-process them and so they will be used again as if they were new. The others join a granulation process, so the textile fibers are separated from steel and rubber. Rubber granules and rubber flour are reused in the manufacture of new tyres, sporty soils, asphalts... a nymph. Every year, used wheels recovered are about 300,000 for cars and about 600,000 for trucks and buses across the state. The Environment Council has assisted the work of retreating to the Pontevéresa González Coucier company, of a total amount of EUR 2,476,000, which would also imply the elimination in the other two spills of Somozas and Laracha. Thus, according to the contract, the treatment of each tonne will cost the Greek 77 euros. The treatment they're taking is a 26% shipment for real recycling, and the rest for the so-called energy recovery, that is, to burn, which is what we actually do in Galicia with the remaining materials of this over-consuming consumerism, and that's it. We know that here there are stored quantities of tires for many years and that it is difficult to recover them and reuse them as rubber granules. But, gentlemen, how long have we been with them stored there without doing anything? And the law of 2005 -- from that law to us -- which prohibited landfills, which banned storage, which gave you only six months of storage, what did we do for those ten years that mediated from that law until today? The so-called tyre cemeteries were officially declared illegal from 2006, with Royal Decree 1619/2005. The maximum time, as I told you, is six months. In addition, in application of this royal decree on tyre management, it has an impact on the customer, at the time of purchase, on the withdrawal rate of the tyre used. In other words, when we buy the wheels from our cars we already paid for their recycling. Who has papped and not recycled since the 1990s the money corresponding to 36,000 metric tons? And the mid-term counseling where he was looking, who did he favor? Even so, it is to be assumed that due to the variety of oil, fat and other industrial residues from hydrocarbons and similar, all of them dangerously polluting, the Galician Union will be monitoring the management, disposal and reuse or recycling of them. In addition, if part of these are incinerated in situ or buried, it is to be assumed that there is an environmental study of the impact these activities have on the natural balance of the area and on the health of its population. In Reading the people who live in the area know that well. Or oil or wheels leave a black smoke that puts black scarf on the dry clothes. People are alarmed by the increase in respiratory diseases, and how do you say that? I'm not going to say it, but there's an increase in cancer, or at least you can see that. How long have oils and other substances of industrial origin, wheels and so on in this laracha dump? I wonder, again, whether there will be a follow-up to the Environment Council to monitor how these wastes are treated, or not? I'm relieved to know that there are studies on population health, a follow-up, a minimal concern, or not? Believe me, it stirs up the knowledge of the simplicity with which these environmental issues are being dealt with. Oh, Sogama!, we are in the middle of the last century in the consciousness and treatment that the Administration gives you to this problem. You'll need to start thinking about closing Sogama's chiring and giving it back, modernizing. We are burying and burning natural balance and a median healthy future. It's true that there's a transaction proposition and there's an agreed transaction, I couldn't help but say what I just said. I know, and above all I want to confess to you, that yesterday morning I almost fell asleep in a dream of environment balanced with the intervention of the Counsellor. I hope his words have the firmness of the facts. So I announce that there are a few word changes and the text follows, the resolutions follow more or less at first, as they were formulated. I welcome the atmosphere of cordiality and collaboration, I hope you will continue this way and we will reach agreements on what you have so, so much to do, that we have a long way to go. And so much to do is because it hasn't been done for too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. You have the floor for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Trenor López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u141	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rivas, I respect, of course, everything you say, I respect you now and I respect you always. It's true that sometimes I don't match 100% with the approach you might have, but my respect has it, and I think you'll keep having it for a long time. The old accumulations of tires are a problem, and I share with you that perhaps one of the most important problems we have of an environmental nature here and anywhere else. It's true that here, now, it's a little less problem, as the treatment of these tyres is already damaged, and at this point, every day, that accumulation, that mountain, is less. Given that we share the concern about the treatment of these tyres, given that it is already done, what we want to do, and the goal we have, it has not been difficult to reach an agreement with you. We already have a tire management model, which has existed since 2005 and is to be complied with throughout the state. I can tell you that this model is working in Galicia, in addition, in a particularly satisfactory way. The latest data we have told us that 100% of these tyres are either re-using or recycling. Therefore, the waste rate that is managed through other valuation mechanisms is 0%. So what we had to do about the new tyres that are withdrawn — I say from the new ones by contrasting them with those historical accumulations — is what we had to do about this, we are doing well and we are contributing to the achievement of the targets highlighted by the forthcoming State Waste Framework Plan. Therefore, Galicia has its own planning tool for managing these tyres and, in addition, includes this specific program in Galicia's 2016-2022 Industrial Waste Management Plan. As for the so-called historical tyres generated prior to the entry into force of the royal vigant decree of 2005, they are already being given a solution, not only now, but also for a time. These accumulations of tyres have their origin prior to 2006; it was years ago that Junta signed a collaboration agreement with the Galician Industrial Waste Society, we started from an existence of an amount in that estimated above 40,000 tons, and at first a total of 21,000 tons were handled, and in 2016 this line of action was resumed. It was done by bidding the service for the treatment of historical wastes of tires out of use existing in our community, it was done by recalling that date, that of the Sesena fire, before; it is true that in a short time, but it was previous. And in that performance, as you remember, more than 2.4 million euros are invested. He started acting in Fene, that part is already acting. The deadline for the entire contract is fifteen months, so in the first quarter of next year there will no longer be any accumulation of historical tyres in Galicia. The treatment of these tyres, which requires regulation, is based on the recycling of materials: textile parts, metal parts and rubber. And what can't be valued materially is done energetically. You can use what cannot be recycled to get the energy you need to make that recycling possible. It must also be remembered that because of its antiquity and the consequent degradation of the material these are very damaged, the younger ones must remember that they are more than ten years old. In point 3, Your Honor, you are asking for a plan to remove tyres in rural areas with the Town Councils. We are supporting, the Union is supporting the municipalities in the removal of these wastes. In 2016, environmentally degraded spaces were recovered by 200 dump points located in 32 municipalities and 32 tons of tyres, 32 tons and a half were removed, and that's why we think this is the line we need to strengthen, as we have already said. Instead of setting a specific line of R+D+i, the authorised collective management systems of Galicia, Signus and TNU already work on these lines, accounting for the Environment Advisor of these jobs. In any case, with our amendment, what we support is the momentum of R+D+i activity and we trust that it could continue to collaborate with research centres in studies of new applications of these recycled tyres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u143	For our part, Your Honor, we have this agreed text, we think about supporting it, and we hope we can reach many agreements like this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u144	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u145	...and can solve many of the environmental problems we still have. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u147	Thank you, President. Well, there's no need to explain much more than you've already explained here. On behalf of the PSdEG, we are going to support this non-law proposition. It is true that there was a regulation, a real decree that was 2015 and that now in Galicia, specifically, we have this 2016 Industrial Waste Management Plan, which is welcome, even if it's late, but the truth is that in Galicia we have a problem with the elimination, with the management of all kinds of spills, also of tyres. There is a great problem because disposal is prohibited in the dump, dumping of entire tyres, uncontrolled deposits, and what would be appropriate for public administrations to promote the collection of tyres, for example public vehicles, and also to promote the use of recycled tyre materials at the end of their useful life, including products manufactured with recycled materials. In spite of this, as noted in this initiative, the spokesman for the BNG, there are now two deposits of dumps — still existing in Galicia — of tyres; Fene no longer, because the problem that existed in Fene was tremendous, and it was arranged from May when the Environmental Adviser met with mayors of Fene, Somozas and Laracha and concluded that although there could be increased monitoring in the dumps in the pneumatic warehouses of these three localities with autonomous police, or even increasing municipal police, it was essential to make a decision and solve this problem. The truth is that the tender was discovered, there was no one who took charge of the procedure that was open, and a month later there was the burning that took place in Sesen, near Madrid, and it seems that the awareness of society was greater from that moment on. What I wanted to say is that both the non-law proposition by the BNG, the amendment by the People's Party, or the compromise between the two parliamentary groups, by our band, we are going to support this initiative, which we consider to be a coincidence, because there is a problem with the dumps in Galicia. And it would be good that since the important thing is that the generation and treatment of tires that lose their use if they were done in Galicia, not outside Galicia, are essentially being done in Portugal and Castela-León, which are the closest places to us, which are the ones that are working on this treatment, in Galicia there are plants that are allowed for their final valorization, and then it would be very good that on the part of the council would have pushed the final treatment, from the beginning to the end, if it were done in Galicia; because it seems that until the moment practically what is done here is the preparation for reuse. We'd like you to advise her because total valuation is done in our autonomous community, not only because it generates jobs, but because it also solves a first-order environmental problem. And, for our part, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mr Cal Ogong spoke on the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u149	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We will, of course, support this initiative from the En Marea Parliamentary Group, and we will follow up on the implementation of this plan, because we know that on many occasions the plans at the end are not implemented. We are again facing a situation that speaks of a high risk to the environment and public health in parliamentary debate. Yesterday Mrs Mato in her presence was once again proud, as is customary in her speeches, of the situation of our natural heritage and of the Government's actions in this matter. Deployed the repertoire of popular classics of the Goberno da Junta in environmental matters. Sogama, which recycles less than 4% of the waste managed, which flows through all of Galicia, a model, therefore, that goes in a direction contrary to energy efficiency and the fight against climate change. But that's not an obstacle for the councilman in this House to say, without blushing, that he's an international referee, pointer in Europe. He said it yesterday. He also boasted of the Government's efforts to protect spaces of special natural interest, being Galicia one of the less protected communities of the state, and it is not because he does not have a large environmental heritage on our beautiful land. She is also proud of the fact that the conservation of biodiversity or the sanitation of rivers is at the point of view of the European authorities. With this level of exigencies, we should not be surprised that sanctions are coming in to address the environment. If yesterday the PP voicer was talking about room environment, I'll say we call it environment, because half we've already destroyed it and now what we have to do is try to keep the other medium. The GNP presented today by the BNG denounces the existence of several points in the Greek territory where a large number of tyres are concentrated, at the risk that this entails, and can lead to a major environmental attack, burning, as has happened in other parts of the State recently; so it is urgent — for these types of catastrophes do not warn — to act preventively by complying with existing regulations in this matter. The European Commission has already warned the Spanish State about the risk of fire in several places in similar situations. We avoid being threatened with sanctions from Europe for endangering the environment and public health. We act as long as we're in time to avoid a catastrophe, so that then we don't pay, among all, something that administrations up to now haven't been able to solve. The lack of fire prevention measures in Galicia increases the risks in our community of continuing to be the state community with the highest rate of fires, since fire prevention and extinction policies are ongoing and we all know the most: "If you do the same, the most likely result is the same." The simple deposit on a plot must be considered polluting and harmful to the environment and especially dangerous in the vicinity of a population nucleus. It's not an aesthetic problem, nor is it an environmental damage that can be tolerated by the force of habit. The law requires recycling of all used wheels. The so-called tyre cemeteries have been officially declared illegal since 2006, when it was driven as it aims to address the environmental problem that involves depositing thousands and thousands of outdoor tyres. The legislation establishes a mandatory recycling mechanism for tyres used. They've been there for twelve years, and there's still a lot of tires in love; therefore, they haven't been doing as well as the people's Party spokesman said. The environmental and health consequences of a fire would be an important silence, and the toxic cloud could be extended into an area of several kilometers, in addition to that it could remain in the atmosphere for a long time, contaminating it forever. Nor can the risk of water contamination be neglected because of the spills and leaches that would emerge from the results of the fire and the extinction work in the nearby banks. Among the products that would be released in the air, in addition to CO2, unfortunately we would also find others that pose a serious health risk, some such as dioxins, furans or benzene. The volume and concentration of these products would also be large. It's not a matter of alarming or being catastrophic, but of giving the importance of the emergence of a waste such as old tires, usually in a society so dependent on the automobile, in which it is estimated that the accumulation of tyres has tripled over the last two decades, of which surely we do not escape in Galicia from the infrastructure and mobility policies of the Galician Union: high-capacity roads and individual motor transport. We must therefore demand the responsible and appropriate treatment of these wastes by complying with the rules prohibiting their dumping, respecting the principle of hierarchy in the treatment of waste, as promised yesterday by the Environmental Adviser. In order to achieve the objective that Galicia is a reference in the conservation of the environment, it should be directed to reuse and recycling. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. The author of the non-law motion, Mr. Rivas Cruz, has the floor to finish this debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to transfer something to them, because we're talking about public money. The treatment of 871 tons of old tyres in Fene is done on a private, private warehouse. I mean, what I think was a scrap factory a long time ago, that bought tires, and that storeed them, that broke them, that went out in the air and was picked up by a real estate, by another company. The council took the hot chestnuts out of the fire, and I suppose you'll charge them for that service, because that has a cost, that's going to include in the two million four hundred and a thousand euros, which are ours, which are all of us. And, of course, I know that you manage to the most public money and criticize to the most extent when we, the slightly left-handed people, invest money in the public good. Well, in this case, I think you have to sharpen the genius. Of course, we thank him very much for committing himself, above all, to the future treatment of the tyres that collect will be practically zero, energy recovery, that is, they won't burn, because if we weren't in the same way. And to me -- I'd say a fool but I won't say it -- but if I burn... You say collaboration with the municipalities is already in progress. I think it's good for me, but I'm telling you because most of the problem of tires and uncontrolled dumps is in the rural municipalities; they were services that were done so throwing the garbage into a hole that there was. So I ask them to take this seriously, because the rural environment is still full of tires. And not only by the silos, but many of us by counseling many times from our mechanics, who tell us that these wheels are still good, still run a few miles in the summer, and we keep them and they stay there, and this is a reality that we have to take ourselves seriously. But who has to take it seriously is the public institutions, in this case the Environmental Council in collaboration with the municipalities. Obviously, they're not just tires, there's washing machines, there's... because, well, because it's like that. And we'll have to do it, and especially the plastics of the silos. We are generating in the rural environment a number of wastes that have to be reused, that must be reintroduced, that must be used in some way. I've really been excited about the circular economy, but we have to go around, we have to put it into practice, because, of course, it's something, it's a thought that we've had a lot of left-wing people for quite a long time. For me nothing else, just read them how the text will stand: "The Parliament urges the European Union, the Government of Greece, to: 1. Continue with the management and control of tyres used through Galicia's 2016-2022 Industrial Waste Management Plan. 2. Immediately complete the withdrawal and treatment of used tyres accumulated in deposits and dumps not controlled by authorised managers. 3. Strengthening the means to support the Greek municipalities in the urgency of environmental recovery of uncontrolled discharge points. 4. Establish, in the field of boosting R & D+i, a specific line to encourage studies of new recycled tyre applications." I went to the People's Party. We really appreciate the support of the Socialist Party and the En Marea Group for this non-law proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. We shall now proceed to the debate on the following non-legislation proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. David Rodríguez Estévez, on the amendments to be introduced by the Government of Greece in Decree 37/2006 to prevent the precarious work in which staff hired for the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service are employed for three months a year
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u153	This initiative was presented with an amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u154	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo has the floor, representing the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u155	Thank you, President. Good morning. Before I started, I wanted to say hello and thank you for being here today some of the people who make up the Three-month Galician Forest Fire Workers Association. And they're here because they moved us first-hand the problem that's been going on for too many years. We therefore ask all groups of the House not to understand this initiative as an initiative of En Marea, but to understand that this initiative is of Sonia, of Jesus, of July, of Mary del Mar, of Darío, of Jose, of Luis, of Carlos or of Angel, who are some of the people who are here today accompanying us. He understands it as the initiative of the 436 workers who are claiming decent conditions of employment. [[Applause]] These 436 people, distributed in the forest districts of Galicia, are interim and indefinite dissidents contracted to support the high-risk summer campaign of the Galician Union in the summer period of fires, i.e. July, August and September. These are some of the people who fight against the fire driving the motorcycles, confirming the team of firefighters or forest engineers, among others. They're some who risk their lives defending what's a common good, our mountains, and they've been too many years, too many already, working in precarious ways. Since July 2012 they have a contract as interim from three months a year. This is not acceptable from many points of view. From a job perspective, because these people deserve quality work. Having hired professionals three months a year does not help to ensure professionalism, job stability or decent socio-economic conditions. Now, thanks to their recruitment model, these people are unprotected and have a full working life through precariousness. First of all, if Decree 37/2006 is not amended again, these persons will not be able to opt for other contracts outside the three months they have of contract, retirements, or sick leave, in any body of the Board of Directors. It is totally incomprehensible that they are not allowed to access the espresso squares in these months that are unemployed. The supposed solution that was adopted in September of Decree 124/2016 is not such, because offering the possibility of accessing nine-month or twelve-month squares which are not yet called in exchange for giving up to which if they are in possession of three months does not seem to be a very favourable exit, especially given the amount of time it takes to cover the squares that are left free or the number of squares that amortize or convert. Secondly, these people suffer from social disprotection by being limited to access to various unemployment subsidies, some training plans, creating situations of instability, especially of work inequality, being excluded from the Fifth Collective Staff Convention of the Galician Union. But even beyond their working conditions, which, of course, are fundamental, it is clear that the current model of fire prevention does not arrive. Year after year we regret how many acres of hills were laid by these. Examples of recent years: year 2015, almost 12,000 hectares; year 2016, nearly 20,000 hectares. Figures that are dramatic, but behind these figures there are many environmental losses, loss of animal life, economic loss or even loss of people's lives. And this year 2017 we don't want to meet again with thousands of burned hectares without taking the necessary measures to avoid it. On the other hand, you ignore the dissectionality that occurs year after year of forest fires. Fires don't go alone in the summer, they don't just burn the mountains in July, in August and September. Remember, for example, the 800 acres razed in the Straits of the Eume, what hurt us so much, that we all regretted 2012, was in March, or of the continuous outbreaks that suffer from the Sera of the Jurés at any time of the year. In 2016, Junta extended the high-risk period, understood that there was still a risk beyond September, but incomprehensiblely did not extend the staff contract that is supposed to be linked to this increased risk, with the consequences we already know. Why did they make such an incoherent decision? Because what they do is they have public workers in their homes, when they're hiring private companies to strengthen them in winter, in summer, every month of the year. That's what they're doing. [[Applause]] This same year — it doesn't have to go back many years ago — we took an average of four fires a day in the country during the month of January, with a special incidence, unfortunately as always, in the province of Ourense. This is because there are metrological conditions that are not the usual ones. And these conditions are not going to change in the next few years, so we have to take decisive action, urgent action. In addition to the factor of deseasonation of fires, it is necessary to add that these personnel can act in interface fires, in which urban areas come into contact with forest areas. What is clear to us is that to fight against the fire, we must defend the Public Service of Prevention and Defence against Forest Fires of the Galician Union and do not prejudge it, because these 436 people are the 626 who were terminated on November 30 when their contract expires, in this case of nine months. And while they leave this service with more than a thousand less workers for prevention and extinction, they're gradually privatizing fire services, because in these years those who keep increasing profits are extinction companies, and we repeat it. It's only necessary to read the announcement that the Rural Council is making when it bids a private helicopter and brigade service for more than 3.8 million euros, while 55% of the public operator has the contract suspended. So it's very easily checked out which model it is; the tendency of counseling is the progressive privatization and segmentation of the fire service in different and numerous entities, be they public, public with private, private, municipal management. And this, of course, has a negative impact on coordination, operation and security as well as on people who risk their lives fighting forest fires. We play a lot, so we need a single, public, equal and professional fire service, which reduces the high cost of extinction angles. We know your speeches well, but at the time of truth, we'd like to know where the strategic projects are to value the mountain and stop abandonment. On the other hand, and bearing in mind the chaos experienced these days, it must be remembered that under Law 5/2007, of Galician emergencies, which defines the personnel of fire services as emergency personnel, that these people could help in cases of large emergencies, as has happened in the past with the shipwreck of the Prestige, or, of course, in other cases such as accidents or natural disasters. It doesn't have to go back much further, because these past few days they might have called many of these people to cooperate and to reduce the problems arising from the storm. And what we stand for and what we have very clear is that prevention must be put at the centre. And expanding the contract of these workers from three months to nine is a first step. Of course, it's not the only thing to give, you have to put a lot more, but before this summer's campaign, you have to carry out measures that they can do: scraps or rockets, cleaning and disposal of slaughterhouses, processing firewalls or cutters, strips of protection and maintenance of infrastructure. This has to be done, and we don't want private companies to do it, as you do -- to derive from private equipment. We want our workers and public workers to do so, who are nothing at home under totally unworthy conditions. So this year we have the possibility to put in place some precise measures before the cries of July, August and September. For all this, of course, for the workers and the workers, but also for the defense of our common good, for our mountains, I ask them to accept this initiative and to immediately discuss other measures that accompany it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fires will not end until the model of exploitation and treatment of the mountain changes to a rationality. Anyway, we all know that the best fight against fire is done in winter and spring. As reflected in Article 2.2 of the V Collective Staff Convention on the Special Conditions for the Fire Prevention Service: it shall be applicable to all staff performing their work in this service. The agreement only collected nine-and-a-half-month squares, for which these people are in law fraud, as they determined around seventy judgements in the first instance, which ordered them to be hired nine months. Then we took the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, where he argued that on this task he was only against the amendment of the TPP. We are aware that these functions — those of modifying the RPT — are the responsibility of the Government, the Council and the Directorate-General for Public Service; what we are surprised at is the silence of the Government and the restlessness of the Government, and the maintenance of this situation of this staff, who have rights, and those rights are being violated. As we have seen, the intention was to adapt the organic structure to the needs of the summer age. Well, in January 2016 Law 17/2015 of 9 July of the national civil protection system came into force. Article 17 provides that forest firefighting services shall be considered as public intervention services and as assistance in civil protection emergencies. Within the new tasks which the law commands to forest firefighters, which are now called, appear the new competition units, among them to attend as the first intervener in cases of accidents or emergencies in the rural environment, as well as to carry out jobs in support. Where were you when this temp was? Who's more qualified than them, with the gun in his hand? Because you know that most of the problems we had to recover the power and most of the problems we had with the tendons were wood, branches that fell and trees that fell on them. This is chaos, and that chaos must be ordered. And in this way, we burn in summer and burst in winter, based on and when the first time comes. It makes us work, they're there waiting to work and they're efficient, and they know how to do it. Of course, you can't extend the contract time, but you can extend it to the teleported brigades, where they are already hired in the prevention period; so it's called the non-high risk period of fires. We are going to support this proposal, accept or not accept our amendment. They know that our amendment goes in the same line, just specify a little bit more what's very generic at the third point that In Marea proposes. On the other hand, everything remains to be said. They deal with it and they give it to these people, who deserve it, and I think none of us would sign any paper or agree to work three miserable months a year, and above all in a service that needs much more work and a rural environment that is needing people, specialized forest firemen and preparations and the whole day and hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u158	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u159	President, ladies and gentlemen, workers, workers, good morning, everyone. Little by little after the argument made by previous attendees on this subject. It's a proposal that we're obviously going to approve, and for many reasons. Our position: a three-month discount is a contractual condition that in every light does not bring work stability and we understand that it does not benefit anyone, rather it seems like an underworld condition, a work underworld. If that condition of precarious work is not hindered by the administration, though they can go up here and justify that if they see it, if they're determined for a few months, etc., etc., that doesn't seem to be the best example for moving to society. If the three-month decontinuum figure is extended to other groups under the Administration, as is the case, then the exception passes the category, and that does not seem the best way forward, since, apart from the economic-worker, there is the loss of the professional factor and of training at work. Today comes to the Chamber this proposal as a clear exponent of labour situations to be overcome. But they're not the only ones. We would like to recall, for example, that there are around five three-month fixed-discontinuouss in the Seaga public enterprise, that they are another exponent of this situation and that they also meet 100% of the requirements for building the dynamics in the rural world. But what we saw today. If the 436 people who make up this collective are part of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service, with the categories of bomber, emissory, data encoder, watcher, etc., ask for the basic — and ask for it, count us – and being fires an environmental, socio-economic and even budget problem, well you can look for a fit, a fit that makes the stability of workers and workers compatible, on the one hand, and optimizes the factor of training. It's a luxury to pass from experience, a contempt to put aside the human factor, which is so expensive in companies. If, moreover, we note that this is the legislation of rural areas, with the unanimous agreement repeatedly shown by all groups to increase prevention as the best way to fight against fire, and if we consider that cleaning and monitoring of the mountain are fundamental, that forestry treatments are basic, then we have to bet seriously by professionals related to these jobs and these functions. Yes, we see that an effort must be made and the need to deepen in the functional framework for those six months beyond the proposal, which is beneficial to the administration, administration and country. In this sense, we feel quite indicative and rigorous the analysis that is done in the proposed part of the union report or the trade union proposal that has approached us, as well as the possibilities of work and function to be developed during the six months of increase of contract, in particular from Law 17/2015. The review made by different autonomous communities with similar situations is quite clarifying for the subject. So, with a perfectly valid legal fit and a more than reasonable cost, very much assumed for the self-contained budget items, we understand that we must support this initiative and this proposal. The petition made by the collective is fair and necessary, and we consider it appropriate to support the Socialist Group, and so we are going to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u160	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u161	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today we are debating PNL 3410, in which it is basically proposed by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea that the Fire Prevention Service workers, hired during the three months of summer, would be hired for at least nine months; outside these summer months, they would do prevention work, according to their own explanatory statement. First of all, from the People's Parliamentary Group, and the German Government, we want to make it clear that we are very pleased with the work done by all the workers and workers in the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service. They are the first line of defense against this scourge that year after year afflicts our mountains. We'll always work to improve your working conditions, always, there we will be. What we have to clarify, first, is that the fire-fighting workers of the Union are not in working conditions. Within the device, they live with employees in different situations, but always within the strictest legality. We have self-government officials, we have three-, nine-and-a-half-month layouts. They're various labour situations, but they're not in precarious shape. We have in the Prevention Service a total of 987 workers with fixed or fixed-continuous contracts, with a minimum duration of nine months. Three categories: pawn, driver pawn or brigade boss. Minimum wages in any of these categories are EUR 1,500 per month. And besides, and given the temporality of the fires, in the high season of fires they treat themselves as reinforcement workers for a period of three years; these are 436 workers we're talking about, and what part of them are here today. When the PNL speaks of work insecurity, it refers to these 436 workers. Let's see: what is your situation right now? Until 2011, for the reinforcement of the Prevention Service, at the beginning of each summer campaign, workers were hired at work-time and possibly under the specific mode of work or service. That's also at the time of the Bipartite. What was going on here? That these contracts were of a potential character and did not guarantee workers their employment from year to year, they were in a situation of total uncertainty. What's done in 2012? What you do is strengthen the device with a fixed and structural character in the summer campaign. 436 jobs are created for fixed-term benefit for three months and are covered by these 436 positions for temporary workers under the form of interim assistance. In this way, and with this measure, these 436 workers gained job stability, they became in better position than they were before; they had the assurance of working each campaign, in addition, for a certain time of three concrete months: July, August and September. We are meeting their demands in working conditions, and I have to tell them that these demands have also been met in Decree 124/2016 of 8 September. What was going on up to that rule? Up to this rule, reinforcement personnel could not be called to occupy more long-term vacant squares without giving up their contract, with a penalty that meant they could not access the lists for a year. Conscious of the prejudice caused by this penalty, the Galician Board amended Decree 37/2006, so that from September 2016 workers in the summer campaign can choose to fill vacancies and not vacancies for nine or twelve months without penalty, without the penalty they had before the year. So, and in principle, with the first point of your proposal we cannot agree, because it is already something that is permitted today with this decree of September 2016. What if we tell these workers is that we will continue on this path and improve their working conditions, and I, as a spokesperson of the People's Party, will be delighted to receive them and to meet all that I have raised in this regard, and if this is the case, defend them in front of the Government. In points 2 and 3, they ask for the contract to pass from three to nine months. Look, we think the Service is dealing with a very complicated job, as is the fight against this scourge that involves forest fires in our country, and in this fight we think the Service works reasonably well; it could work better, but it works reasonably well. We have a model that has to combine their presence in the most risky times of the year with the flexibility in hiring that requires proper management of public resources. We understand that the Service is properly dimensioned to respond to the problem. You speak of these workers as being able to carry out prevention tasks in the six months that they would not be in extinction, in the six months that were not summer, but they don't take into account that one of the basic issues for the effectiveness of the Service is the specialization of jobs, and let's remember that these workers are most of their emissions, motor bomb drivers and fixed monitors. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are very pleased with the work of all these staff who are engaged in the most risky months and we will continue to work to improve their working conditions, and I repeat to them my commitment and my offer to receive them when necessary in order to meet those demands of job improvements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u162	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Author group of the non-legislation proposal, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u163	First of all, thank you for the support of the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block. Of course, we accept the amendment, because we understand it improves our initiative. Actually, nothing new. I didn't expect anything else when I didn't read any amendments from your group. You say they're very satisfied, that they're the workers who are on the front line and they'll always find them to improve their working conditions. He says it's not precarious work. You think working three months a year isn't precarious work? I'll tell you, three months a year, every year, thank you. And the rest, nine months, what private company will hire you for nine months knowing that July comes and you're leaving? So, say, what working conditions? How can you say and affirm that these conditions are not precarious? What is precarious work for you? [[Applause]] Too bad I don't have a replica, but I wonder what the conception of precarious work is in your idea. For us, a three-month job that no longer ensures that the grant does not reach the minimum interprofessional wage, if you're doing the average of the whole year, it's not a decent job. It's true, they've been better since 2012; thanks to you not, thanks to the pressure of the collective, thanks to judicial judgments; then they had to change, because they were fraudulent contracts. Please, they still don't hang medals of things that they denied and that they had to accept by force of the collective. Another thing that is quite lacking in truth: it is not true that by the decree I mentioned — for I already knew that they would mention that of Decree 124/2016 passed in September —... I know that that decree has amended the Decree of Recruitment, but it is not enough. The workers — they're saying themselves and themselves — can't access other squares without penalty; that's not true. They can't access 9 and 12-month squares. I think it's very positive that you feel like talking to workers and workers, that's what we're looking for. It would seem more positive to us that they had given a first show that they really wanted to defend this collective and support this non-law proposal, because we understand that they have no reason, and they would be quite retracted if they voted against an initiative that only seeks to improve, on the one hand, the working conditions, and on the other, of course, the work of prevention, which is not the right thing. You're talking about the specialization and training of professionals, and you're saying this while you're having three months of work and hiring in the middle months -- in the other nine months -- people with less training, with less scoring on the recruitment list, and when you're hiring private companies that do much less specific jobs. Then tell me what your prevention model is. It seems to me that all his speech was full of contradictions. If, as they say, they want to defend this collective, we are precisely what we are looking for. We don't want this to be — I said — the initiative of En Marea. We want it to be approved, because these people do not have decent working conditions at the moment, and if we are all defending decent work that enables them to live with dignity — because these people cannot reach the minimum inter-professional wage if they count the subsidy and the salary — which is voted in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and D. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the evaluation by the Government of Galicia of investments and judicial infrastructures in Galicia, as well as the execution in its entirety in 2017 of the Plan of Judicial Infrastructures 2010-2015
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u165	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u166	Thank you, President. Good day again. Well, no one gets away with the fact that in a social and democratic state of law there's a fundamental piar that is that of Justice. It is a public service that deepens precisely in the reversing of this social and democratic rule of law. Unfortunately in Galicia, in the last few years of the People's Party's Government, the Administration of Justice has shown nothing more than the lack of will and political capacity to assume the powers which both the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government of Galicia have given us in the field of an institution so essential to our democracy. And the judicial infrastructure, the legal investments, are another example of this lack of will and political capacity on the part of the Government presided over by Mr Feijóo. This is the 2010-2015 Judicial Infrastructure Plan, and it is the result of an evolution since 1995, the year in which Galicia assumed the provision of material and economic means for the operation of what is called the Administration of Justice. Since then, a career of building infrastructures and legal investments has begun to renew and build new judicial facilities, which were essential. In the first eight years, according to this very plan, which is obviously not made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but is a plan derived from the Government of the People's Party, 25 new buildings have been set up. In the few four years of government — eight years, by the way, he also ruled, although little, the Socialist Party — presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño there were three new buildings, and in the last almost nine years of Mr Feijóo's Government, zero judicial investments. The theme is that in these two years, since the end of the 2010-2015 Judicial Infrastructure Plan, the budget that for 2017 has just been approved by the Popular Parliamentary Group barely exceeds the budget that was planned to implement the 2010-2015 Plan by 12 million euros. That is, this judicial infrastructure plan that ended in 2015 had an budget of around 90 million euros, and the current budget for 2017, for the entire Administration of Justice in Galicia, is of 104 million euros, as just approved by the Government of the People's Party and its parliamentary group. According to government demonstrations, with this budget for 2017 it will be possible to end and continue the execution of the large judicial structures missing from Galicia. Does it seem impossible to us that, if in five years they were unable to execute the budget for judicial infrastructures that they expressly said, with just 11 million more for the entire Administration of Justice in Galicia are going to be able to complete the judicial infrastructures coming in this Plan 2010-2015? It seems a mistake to us, and I'm going to set the example of the province of Pontevedra because it's the one that controls the most. Nothing important was done of the Judicial Infrastructure Plan: nothing in Pontevedra, nothing in Vigo, nothing in Cambados, nothing in Vilagarcia de Arousa, nothing in the Road, nothing in Marín. In Ponteareas there are some new offices since 2009; in Cangas there is no single reform since 2005; and in Lalin all that has been done was with the Government presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño. Lately, as a result of the temporals in Pontevedra, as the court windows do not close well — and not only in the trial, but in the prosecutor's office, water came into the windows and most of the files were wet. Justifiably, as much as they tell us about Lexnet, the judicial record is still using paper. They've rolled, and they're stacked, wet, in a remote place waiting for the sequence. Yes, the vice president of the Union — on this line of deception for all citizens — has resorted to Galicia proud to say that she would invest 50,000 euros in reforms in Ourense. A few months ago he even said that an effort will be made during 2017 to adapt Galician judicial buildings to the needs of modern justice. We don't know if modern justice is the modernist justice at the beginning of the 20th century, but of course it's going to be difficult with this budget and these forecasts. He even said that the Judicial Infrastructure Plan for 2017 — which we do not know where it is — envisages that in the first quarter of this year — which will end last tomorrow — the works of the Tobacco Factory in Coruña — take three years' delay, in 2011 they told us that it would be finished in 2014 — and the execution of the work of the new judicial building in Pontevedra. First quarter of 2017. In Pontevedra, there's only one banishment. There's a hole, because they've already dug out the ground, but there's absolutely nothing else. Even the beginning of the works for the City of Vigo Justice, in the facilities of the general hospital; and neither — which I know — within these facilities is done nothing. In Ourense he confirmed — after saying that they had just invested 50,000 euros — that there will be a second phase of work that will affect the second floor of the Provincial Court building, with an investment of about 45,000 euros. It would be nice if we were once to respond to how much paper and ink is spent in Galicia as a result of having to print everything that comes through Lexnet in the courts. We know informally that, more or less, the amount is around EUR 75,000-80,000. For half of them could already do the work that remains in Ourense in the Provincial Audience. In this line, the President of the Board himself met with the Minister of Justice a short time ago and said that a new Trial Court in Ourense, another of the Social in the Coruña and another of the Family in Vigo would be enabled. The question is, where are you going to put them? Because if there's problems with the few judicial buildings there, see where these new judicial headquarters are going to be, with their officials and their files inside. Because in Ourense the witnesses have to wait in the corridors; in the Coruña the Tobacco Factory is not yet open — three years of delay —; in Vigo the Mercantil Court number three — which was the last to arrive — was in the pole — as they said — and in the Coruña the Tobacco Factory is not open and there is, in addition, a project to reform the Provincial Audience when the transfer is made to the building of the old Tabacos Factory. That delay will suppose that the judges — who I think are six — who are in the Proa building, in the Coruña, who cost us nearly €592,000 annually to the citizens' pockets, must continue to be in this Proa building, since they cannot be transferred to the Provincial Audience because there is no reform project. The truth is that the vision is poor, wrong, and it seems incredible that you don't talk to people who work and know how the judges are, or something that doesn't match us with this 2010-2015 Judicial Infrastructure Plan, something doesn't match us. It is not true that a powerful investment in legal infrastructure is being made, nor is even the investment minimal. That's why we ask the Government to do... We didn't ask him too much, we asked him not to cheat and just to do what they had to do by 2015. We're in 2017, and we're the only ones we're asking you to do a serious evaluation of how the investments and the legal infrastructure in our Autonomous Community are doing this year, and what they already promised -- even on paper -- they were going to do by the end of 2015. And we expect it to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u168	Good day again. In his speech this morning, Mr. President of the Board impressed us with his concern about such an important infrastructure as access to his house, which he could have had dark seals. He was talking about such a matter of transcendence as the railway and Mr. Feijóo were worried about the seals to access his house. I suppose if you're worried about the lighthouses of Vista Alegre, you'll also be concerned — and much more of your concern — about the situation of the Administration of Justice, which is seriously lacking. Besides, I believe that in the social imaginary — I suppose you will share it — there is a lot of installation of this idea that there is a situation of serious shortcomings, collapse, slowness and bureaucracy that causes that feeling that many people have distanced themselves and also distrust of the Administration of Justice. This has to do with problems with the workplaces, the discomfort of these spaces, the buildings that are pending, the equipment — including computer equipment —, the lack of personnel, the accumulation and overload of work that the staff of the Administration of Justice suffer, the insufficiency as well as the courts and rooms... It has already been mentioned here, on numerous occasions, especially in the field of social issues or in the fight against gender-based violence or the need for modernization. As much as they want to sell that there's an unstoppable, modeled process, and that they're the most pioneers in the world in modernising the Administration of Justice, the reality is that that modernization in the field, for example, of the Digital Administration has made it multiply the role when they talked about there was going to be zero paper. Well, in view of this negative image, there are their plans, their forecasts. The Plan — which has also already mentioned the companion Patricia Vilán — of judicial infrastructures for 2010-2015, which established in addition to two phases: a first until 2013, and the second 2014-2015, with a total investment of about 84 million euros —85 million euros — of which 75 would go in the first phase, which was the period 2010-2013, is that it is a further example of non-compliance by the Government of the People's Party in the Board of Galicia, because most of the infrastructures planned for the period 2010-2013 are not being built, they are not starting. Comrade Patricia Vilán referred to numerous examples: Vigo, Pontevedra just started, Tui, Vilagarcia, Cambados, The Road, etc. And Mr. Feijóo, also in July 2012, in one of the pretentious statements that characterize his public interventions, said — we are talking about 2012, and the first phase of the plan, which foresees 75 million euros, was about to finish -- "With this plan they will definitely solve the problems of the Greek judicial infrastructure." "The plan is running in time," he said in 2012, when it was one year away to finish the first term. We're in 2017 and there's most of the infrastructure to build, and what's more serious, to start with. The Group of the BNG will therefore support this initiative of the Socialist Group, although it seems to us that it should be because of the bureaucracy and the slowness of this Parliament as well as the Administration of Justice, which had already been discussed earlier, in order to be able to put the investments envisaged in this proposal not by law in the budgets of the Union and thus to be able to fulfil those commitments. In any case, we want this agreement to be made so that you can also be right and, as far as possible, make the budgetary changes so that you can carry it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u169	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u170	Thank you, Mr. President. It has been said here before, as the beginning of the intervention, that justice is a cornerstone of democracy, and the provision of justice is not simply a public service, it is the provision of a power of the State which fulfils the guarantee of being a guarantor of fundamental rights, of avoiding abuse of power, of monitoring the action of the Government, of investigating crimes — including corruption — and of course to resolve conflicts between individuals. But justice does not lend itself, there is a lack of means: personal means and material means; there is a need for judges and judges, prosecutors, judicial officers, but also for the administration of justice. And that material function, which is what the Constitutional called the Administration of the Administration of Justice — which was also invoked here — in Judgment 56/90, is the one it transferred to, which it demarcated the competence, in this case of the Board of Galicia, in relation to its responsibility for the provision of justice, in the provision of a public service of power from the fundamental state so that we can affirm the existence of democracy. In this sense — as pointed out here — there is an inconsequential question — we suppose they will try to say the opposite — lack of compliance with the 2010-2015 Judicial Infrastructure Plan. This is the plan which will be accessible to the public on the webpage. Anyone can see that plan and anyone can also see that many of these infrastructures are not implemented and developed; if they want to, we enter specific areas. But what concerns us, beyond concrete non-compliances, is that we cannot afford a good administration of justice without material means. This causes some effects that are very visual and that are perceived well in the media when you see the files stacked with moisture, actually, that then you can't use either the historical level or the level of judgments that are still open. But that's only one of the prejudices that happens because the investment is not materialized. Secondly, the lack of adaptation of spaces to the needs of modern justice administration has a perverse effect. First of all, the lack of adaptation of spaces in the courts of gender violence — and in the specific case of Vigo, the exclusive trial of violence has a problem of space — causes that there is no incommunicado space between the victim and the aggressor; or that there are no spaces where victims can be accommodated with dignity while waiting for the moment of the statement in the stage of instruction, for example; or where children accompanying the victims can be properly installed, either at the time of declaration, or at the time of accompanying them. That is to say, a series of material inadequacies are produced that have personal repercussions, some of them very sensitive, because sometimes one cannot avoid the visual confrontation between the victim and the aggressor when he is arrested and handcuffed waiting to make a judicial statement. And that's not a situation that happens in a single trial, it happens in many. That's why compliance with the infrastructure plan is necessary to also meet the demands of the Equality Act, the fight against gender violence, the victim's legal statute, also approved by law at the end of 2015, if I remember correctly. Therefore, needs are very serious and very perennial, because they affect many fundamental rights, and not exclusively those of the very provision of justice, which is already an essential good in itself. The lack of adaptation of judicial facilities also prevents the purposes set by the Galician Union itself in connection with the modernization of technologies. Amtega cannot be implemented, or cannot implement its technologies as planned, reasonably and efficiently, with judicial facilities that have an infrastructure to host telecommunications that is not adapted, as happens today in many trials. And part of the 2010-2015 Infrastructure Plan was precisely the function of being a logical background so that later the Amtega could install the new technologies of communication. Another perverse effect derived from this. Nor can legal reforms be implemented that would focus precisely on the establishment of new video conferencing systems, with rooms specifically adapted to this, because there are no spaces. Moreover, this failure cannot be carried out by the implementation of the new judicial office, which again has nothing because it has already been approved in 2003, even if it continues without the full conviction of the Government to be carried out, even though — as we have already shown on one occasion — it would make much more efficient the efforts of the Justice Council in the provision of the personal means to be able to provide justice. So this is a derivative of this situation. Finished with an additional question. The buildings in the middle towns and cities that do not have new legal infrastructures are the big ones damaged by the lack of compliance with this plan. We can't condemn the middle villages, or the small villages that have been tried, to a situation of delay, and also to an increase in the digital divide for not having completed the judicial infrastructure plan. We understand that the immediate fulfilment of this infrastructure plan is essential for the provision of agile and rapid justice that avoids, firstly, the feeling of impunity, because this lack of adaptation contributes to the unwanted extension of criminal instructions and also increases the punishment of the people, which prolongs their situation even more in time. In addition, it is necessary for it to be able to implement — as has been said — the new judicial office, computer modernization and the courts of instance — which is also another reform needed by the Administration of Justice. And finally, it should also foresee this Infrastructure Plan, once it is running late, the foreseeable transfer of criminal prosecution to the prosecutor's office. Therefore, an adaptation of justice which, once upon a time, presupposes the definitive entry into the 21st century for most of the judges who still do not have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u171	Thank you, Mr. Villares. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u172	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we started this week by discussing the Budget Act for 2017, which is very interesting because it has given us the opportunity not only to know what the Government's action will be next year, but also what the strategy of opposition in this Parliament's left-hand bench will be. Basically, this strategy is to propose a series of budgetary changes that allow for very apparent investments, eliminating splits that in terms of informative headlines are unclear, even if they are essential for the administration's normal functioning. As it is evident, the majority group, and any responsible government, cannot support the paralyzing of the Administration, and thus the opposition can already begin the journey of visits by the towns and cities of Galicia telling people what evil the Council of Galicia is for not accessing its reasonable proposals. Today Mrs Vilán brings us an initiative that is nothing but this strategy: yes, this time through the non-law proposition. And as is customary, he does so with a proposal — if I may — that is a plague of incorrections, free assertions and wrong data when not openly false, and I don't speak for speaking. Look, you claim that nothing has been done in the matter of judicial infrastructure — literally — in Pontevedra, Vigo, Cambados, Vilagaría de Arousa, the Estrada and Tui. Investments in Pontevedra, 21 million practically Euros, 20,992,000; in Vigo, 3,815,000; Cambados, 437,000; Vilagarcia de Arousa, 436.000; The Road, 150,000 Euros, Tui, 119.000 Euros. Practically 26 million euros. As the data show, saying that the Galician Council has not invested anything in this judicial infrastructure is a purely fallacy, Mrs. Vilán. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I'm facilitating the data that corresponds to the investments already executed or already bided, leaving aside future investments, such as the Judiciary City of Vigo or the project to execute the new Tui judges; I don't tell those. Of course, there have been delays and changes to the infrastructure plan forecasts; of course, but they are easy to understand. First of all, by the plan itself, which was an open plan, subject to the various vicissitudes and evolutions of the needs of the judicial plant, which are produced by amendment of legislation, by amendment of legislation, the proposed implementation of courts, the reform of organic law, the dejudication of the civil register, the different process reforms, and so on. And then, because to build a building, you have to have some land on which to build it. New judicial building in Pontevedra — what Mr Bará was interested in — agreement between the Council, 2010, Mr Bará. Contraction of the project, year 2012. Initiation of the works, August 2016, because it was not able to make the land available to the Council of Pontevedra, Mr Bará, that of which you are part. Of Vigo's judicial buildings, if you want, we'll talk about it, too, there's no problem. The failure of the Vigo municipal government to provide land is well known. Now we've reached an agreement on the rehabilitation of the old hospital, and we're going to do it. Obviously, there is already the idea contest made in 2016 and the adjudication of the construction project in 2017. To you it's the same problem. There was a problem with the land and now it's settled. The old health centre will be rehabilitated, and the building is expected to be finished and in operation in 2018. I understand they don't look like these investments enough, and maybe you're trying to regain the investment capacity that the two-party government had. We have to understand that they had an additional 2 billion per year, and this would facilitate a renewal. He said earlier, performances of the Bipartite, three judges: Black, Band, The Barco, 3,375,000; boasted of this Mrs. Vilán. Look, Mrs. Vilán, you've invested more of this government in the city of Vigo, only in the city of Vigo, than you do in the whole country. By the way, he's worried about Pontevedra's legal infrastructure. Bipartite investment in new legal infrastructures in Pontevedra, zero euros, zero! I know you don't like to talk about the Bipartite, but you have to talk about the Bipartite because that's what gives us the comparative barrier of what the real commitment of one and another to the new infrastructures. [[Applause]] I know you don't like to talk about the Bipartite, you prefer to live the carpe diem. Let's talk about the moment. Well, let's talk about now, let's talk about now. Look, we just celebrated the budgetary debate, what were the Socialist Group's proposals to deal with the so essential works of Pontevedra, Vigo, Cambados, Vilagarcia or The Road? None. None, Your Honor! Your Honor, when you go to those cities and towns telling them the evil, evil thing, which is the Council of Galicia for not making these investments, you tell them that in your amendments they contemplated zero euros for those investments, Euro, Your Honor! That's your concern. [[Applause]] A proposal has been made regarding the new Tui trial: 600,000 euros; left from a match of 1,200,000, which I literally read about: office and computer equipment of magistrates, judges, prosecutors, lawyers of the Administration of Justice, forensics, psychosocial teams, linguistic teams, technical staff and judicial officials. They are also paid by the departure of such bases of legislation, bases of jurisprudence and doctrine and the legal codes for the staff of justice. You tell those collectives you meet who want to build new judicial buildings to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u173	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u174	...that no one works on them. Because you'll tell me how you think the judicial station can do its job under those conditions. Look, a good friend of mine — socialist, by the way — said that some people don't get their cows and others stop their cows. That's exactly what happens to the Socialist Party, which in times of kindness has not been able to implement a single of the important infrastructures that now demand... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u175	It's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u176	...and now ask us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u177	The clock controls it, it's time-compensated. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u178	...to the People's Party, which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u179	I'll control it all the same. There's no protest there. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It's over now. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Time is controlled for all alike. There's no complaint in that. I have witnesses here who can check it out. Shut up, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u180	Thank you, President. I'd like you, President, to give me as much time off as you gave the People's Party representative. The truth is you live anchored in this Alice in the country of the wonders we love. I like stories a lot more. Carroll likes me a lot, but there's a lot more I like. As a fellow man once said, our spokesman, this is not a judicial infrastructure plan, it seems to be a full-fledged judicial infrastructure plan! It's like that! It's like that! [[Applause]] I appreciate the support of BNG and En Marea, but the truth is there's one important thing that must always be done, and it's stepping on the ground. You don't just step on the ground anymore, but it confuses the process reforms with the judicial infrastructure, and one thing has nothing to do with the other. It is more, as I would say — I ask permission from the president — what does he have to do with the weather? Well, such as, you don't have to see anything about the process reforms with the judicial infrastructures, because, if there's a more or less official or if it works with Lexnet or without Lexnet, it has absolutely nothing to do with, nothing to do with, there's more judicial buildings. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] This is Judge number 3 Tui. It would be good if you walked the ground, went to Tui, since he was responsible for the past legislation — not in everything, but a good part — of the local administration, which was to Tui, which is a municipality — hence part of the local administration — and that he was to Judge 3 of Tui, provisional. When there is a market, it would be nice if Lola Flores had to buy a coat of tail passed through the market to enter the judges and have to make a statement. But this is indecent, indecent! [[Applause]] This particular trial has at most 15 square meters, there are five employees working, they have no air conditioning. [[Murmurs.]] As you see, there's a door, it's all crystallized. When summer gives them the sun, they don't have air conditioning and die in heat there, and in winter they die cold. The witnesses have no place to wait, the abusers and the abusers don't relate, they have a corridor smaller than these stairs where the members of the Bureau climb. And, in addition, when you stop somebody who has to make a statement, because it's a first instance mixed trial and also an instructional trial, the civilian guards have to handcuff the detainees in the banks that are on the street, on that walk where the market is installed, because they don't have anywhere to put them until they make a statement. Well, curiously, Tui is being ruled by a mayor right now of the Socialist Party, who asked him, who is offering Mr. Rueda, a place for the transfer of the three judges, and you—maybe, may be, the coincidences I always say exist—are waiting for the People's Party to rule again, at best, to be able to fix these judges. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're the only ones we asked you to do is, please, this year 2017, to approve and execute the Judicial Infrastructure Plan that had to be completed in 2015. By the way, there is something that is also well known: that the jurisprudence and legislation of the magistrates is sent by the General Council of the Judiciary — it is not the Board — and, in any case, the Board commands it in Spanish and not in Greek. It's also good that, in passing, there's a new budget game to translate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles García Míguez and six other Members, on the conduct of management by the Government of Galicia in front of the Council in order to take the necessary measures to prevent the closure of the Information Centre to the Woman of Caldelas Bridge
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u182	An amendment was tabled by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea and another amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u183	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Today we bring to this plenary a non-law proposal to seek a unanimous position, of all political groups, in order to defend the continuity of the Information Centre to the Women of Caldelas Bridge. And I say that I wait for unanimity because I believe that all groups are defending the services of proximity, the services in rural areas and the services provided by the municipalities, which is ultimately the closest administration to citizenship, and the more we talk about equality, whether we talk about promoting equality and whether we talk about services that are provided to women and, above all, to women who have a greater vulnerability, who are the victims of male violence. It was in 1995 in Galicia, under a government of the People's Party, presided over by Mr. Manuel Fraga, when the first five women's information centres in Galicia began. And from there, over all these years, the only thing that was done with the CIM was to open more CIM and open more CIM. There was only one time when the closure of some women's information centres was in danger. I know they don't like to talk about the Bipartite, but it was in those years from 2005 to 2009. It was at that time that the Galego Nationalist Block had a general direction and a general secretariat of equality -- because one didn't reach them, they needed two -- when, in addition to the Galician Macrochiringuit of the Equality and Welfare Consortium, it opened up small chiringuits called R+B offices. But far from opening them in places or in municipalities where there were no information centers to the woman to reach more women, to get to more territory, they opened those offices of I+B in the same municipalities as there were information centers to the woman. His reasons and his motives would have — some of us know them, but today is not the debate. It was in 2009 when the People's Party began to rule, a few months after President Feijóo took possession, to register in the House a number of initiatives, some of which are still Members, saying that the People's Party would close the information centres to the woman. And at that time also the General Secretariat of Equality of the People's Party, in its order of aid to these centres, introduced a variable that was to promote the labour stability of women's information centres workers by slightly increasing the subsidy for those municipalities that had given them more stability in their recruitment to these women. And it was then that when a revolution was set up in opposition groups, and they started recording initiatives saying that the information centres were going to be closed to the woman, sending emails to the CIM workers, telling them that they were at their disposal because the PP wanted to commit an outrage, wanted to close the CIMs, and that that could not be allowed. They presented initiatives like this, recorded on 14 October 2009, signed uniquely and exclusively by Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, who said, "The creation of information services for women is one of the lines of action in the field of equality promotion. In a nation like Galicia, with a high population dispersion, it is necessary to make an effort to provide these resources. At the height of 2005 there were 70 accredited CISGs in Galicia, only 22% of the Greek municipalities... ". He was, in fact, still talking very well about the CIS. And he asked, among other things, "What alternatives will take Galician Union forward to increase coverage of information services to women?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Also Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, in July 2010, very concerned about this issue, was when she sent e-mails to the CIM workers and told them that they were going to close, and, well, it was that historic moment that we lived here in this Parliament with very hard speeches on this issue, and she said, "Most likely, many women's information centers shut down their doors. We're in front of a Galician Union that, for the first time since there's self-government, reduces services for women. The Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group considers the attempt to dismantle women's information centres to be very serious. We therefore ask the Board to rectify it." But not only the Galego Nationalist Bloc, the Socialist Party also presented many initiatives and said things... there is no longer companion Carmen Cajide — a great advocate for equality, with which I have worked professionally and I recognize her worth in this field — who said, "CIM professionals and professionals are specialists in helping women who are being abused, both in the resolution of legal issues and in psychological, health and social counselling." And he said, "The Socialist Parliamentary Group believes that the CIS can't be the subject of any savings measure because it is an absolutely essential service as long as the woman continues to be a victim of masculine violence or any form of discrimination, as it does today." And so many initiatives, ladies and gentlemen, with such phrases. "The Board has issued an order which has been detrimental to local administrations, which has affected the teams that provide these services, only by giving them stability to services." And he asked questions like, "Do you know the Galician board of some CISG that has stopped working or is it going to do so for lack of resources this past year? If so, does the Greek Government consider that the closure or possible closure is motivated by the cuts of the Galician Union?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Well, these are examples of some of those initiatives, and we have a few more. Well, I ask, what happened? What has changed so that now he doesn't even receive the workers affected by the closure of the Caldelas Bridge CIM the Galician Nationalist Block? Send them... oh, or do you receive them Monday? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ah! All right, all right, all right. Yeah, yeah. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right, all right, all right, all right, all right. It's very good to have them received, Mrs. Rodil, it's very good, because that's consistent. After what I told you here fifteen days ago, I'm glad that you're rectifying and receiving people, that you open the doors of your offices to citizenship, people who want to talk to you, even if it's to criticize them, even if it's to tell them you're wrong at Ponte Caldelas, that you're wrong with the Socialist Government of Ponte Caldelas. [[Applause]] Because, look, time puts each one in his place. The board not only kept resources, but increased them, and the board not only kept the CIMs there was then, but there were more information centers for the woman every year. And he didn't just keep his help and subsidies. Because, look, when you were ruling, you were doing it through agreements. Do you know what the agreement means? Less transparency, than criteria are not objective, because they are subject to subjectivity, and now it's competitive competition. And, look, you guys spent the most, the most they invested in women's information centers was 2.3 million euros. Today, the Galician Union, which you say is short, does not support equality and does not invest in equality and prevention, which is spending 3.6 million euros. The figures are not opinionable, ladies and gentlemen, the figures are what they are, and between 2.3 and 3.6 the difference is remarkable. But, look, you're supporting a government that... I've already told them the story of Lola — that here are people who really like personal stories. Lola, on the eve of Christmas, went to be attended by the psychologist of the CIM of Ponte Caldelas, and it turned out that she was attended by the mayor of Ponte Caldelas. And he said, "Tell me." And, of course, you seemed amazing to them, but, look, to me then the mayor of Ponte Caldelas gave me the reason, because he went out giving an interview and saying that I little less that I was lying and so, that I really hadn't met one, that I had dealt with five women in the same situation, five! But, of course, he also said a very serious thing. He said those women weren't having a real problem, they were being manipulated by someone. I don't know if the mayor of Ponte Caldelas is joining the theory of false allegations. I hope that's not the case, because it would be very serious. But, look, the mayor of Ponte Caldelas said he was closing the CISG because it wasn't economically sustainable. So he hired an integral service for 15,000 euros, a legal advice, one day a week, an hour, to which anyone in the county can go asking a question of evictions, inheritances, rents, gender violence... any, to an unskilled service, and 15,000 euros. But, of course, we now know that the mayor of Ponte Caldelas says, "The women of Ponte Caldelas will have a coaching program organized by the Town Hall to break up with the ceilings of glass and cement," -- well, the cement is a new thing to study, and I'm actually going to study this new concept with a lot of interest." 15 grand more. And he says he's a pioneer in Galicia. What is a pioneer in Galicia is the closure of a CISG. It's the first time you close a CIM in Galicia. That's a pioneer. [[Applause]] And you intend to cover up that shame. They've already spent 30,000 euros, 15,000 on legal advice and 15,000 on coaching. Well, all right, let's see how far we're going! The Galician Union this year gave to the Council of Caldelas Bridge, in competitive competition, 27,000 euros of help to maintain the CISG, plus 200 euros and peak more for the renovation of equipment, with an order of help for that subject. What do socialists do—and nationalists follow us because they rule with them—? A run forward. So they bring together all the conchlers in the province of Pontevedra and say that now the Union is the one that has to take charge of the powers of equality, which is the autonomous administration. I remind you that when the Law of Rationalization was passed, which intended for social services to be transferred to the Autonomous Community, they cried out in the sky, and I don't bring out here the lot of initiatives they presented to say that the powers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u186	...of equality they had to have the municipalities. The first thing they have to do is agree with themselves and say whether the competences of equality and social services are of the municipalities or are of the autonomous administration. As long as they don't clarify in that direction, we can hardly reach agreements. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u188	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Listening to Mrs. Prado's exhibition, I can only start by reminding you of one thing, Mrs. Prado: the PP is unable to teach the Socialist Party equal, neither the PP nor anyone else. Bring this House as often as they want this case, really, as often as they want, but don't teach. [[Applause]] Have the theme of how many lies they want, fill in how many covers they leave and take the photos they think appropriate. Mrs. Rodil said it the other day in this House, they found a caramel, but remember that we also like the sweet, we like it very much. The problem of closing the CIS in this town has an explanation that you insist on avoiding explaining, so allow me to shed light on the matter, since you have no intention of doing so or have just made it clear. What's behind this closure is a question of a kind of work, we've already said, and you know it. Right now there's a demand for workers from this center, claiming the labour rights they understand acquired over time, finding the matter in the process of resolution. For a long time the Town Hall has been warned by the intervention services themselves and the Town Hall Secretariat, with repair reports, month by month, on the irregular nature of payments to these workers. And do you know what was the origin of this situation? The responsibility of these contracts lies with the government that you have exercised for years in this county and that you have left in possession of the current government group. As a result of the demand of these workers, it is decided first to resolve the complaint and to postpone — if not to close — the continuity of the CISG until next year, at the time when the aid is returned. So the question here is, is it the right thing to do without the CIS? I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I But you answered the following question: Can you confirm that wages can be paid to workers and CIM workers from all over Galicia to encourage the municipalities to which their contracts are not for services? You know that these centres are maintained by the European aid that manages the Union and distributes it according to requirements between the requesting municipalities. Can you compromise your survival in time? Of course, the ideal thing would be to think that these workers' services could not be assumed in a future by the municipalities, but, when they are small, as is the case, to which they can lead in a future, if those aids cease, is the inability to keep them economically, and that, no doubt, is what obliges the current prudence and to be responsible to the neighbors and neighbors of this town. That responsibility is what led to the fact that since January 2nd in the Council of Ponte Caldelas, an integral service of legal advice had been put in place that would provide care to victims of gender-based violence until the CISG was reopened and that would also serve to advise all kinds of social issues. And we talked before the candy, which we like, too, I said, that's why it's obliged to remember here that we didn't see them so worried when for years in the county of Cambados, being you government groups, with Mr. Cores Tourís as mayor, the CIS which had opened in 2001 only worked six to eight months a year, for years. [[Applause]] And why? Why would they do that? Why did they claim not to be able to forward the money for professional payments? That's funny, isn't it? So this solution of continuous closures is the right way. Moreover, Mr. Cores Tourís, at the end of 2008, promised not to close the CISG again, and just a month later, not only did he close it again, but Mr. Feijóo decided to award it by appointing him a territorial delegate of the Galician Council in Pontevedra. You must have pride in now criticizing the temporary closure of a CIM, really! [[Applause]] Looks like you guys came here today waiting for some kind of revelation of the kind that we've been trying to dismantle the Galician CIM since the PSOE. That, as you will understand, they won't listen, no, they won't listen, because it's against our DNA. We are the historically most socially committed party, with equality, with dependence, the advocates of laws that have brought about historic progress in this country, and you know it, you don't care. They don't want to get on a train that doesn't fit them now. We, as far as society is concerned, are delighted to come up, but from then on to fly it... So, I repeat, if we agree to make the effort to broker with this council for the maintenance of the CIM and not to have to wait until 2018 for its reopening. But this doesn't just happen by asking him to put on trial cloth the fact that it was done by whimsical. What we expect is that the Union, using its exclusive powers, will develop a legislative and economic framework that is appropriate to prevent the closure of the CIS, this and all the municipalities in which this same problem may arise. On the other hand, if you want to be an example of something, you have to provide greater transparency in your games, aimed at equality. It's essential for the municipalities and social organizations that work in this field. Security, the continuity of budgets, is what makes it possible to consolidate public policies over time. They don't do budget engineering by changing games from one application to another. We want transparency; it's a commitment to increase the share allocated to fighting and protecting against gender-based violence that at least doubles the rate of GDP growth. They assume this commitment and we can start talking about mutual commitments. And, by the way, allow me to miss something in your speech: I haven't heard you tell them anything about the rest of Galician municipalities that today have no CISG. Nearly 200 municipalities are deprived of it. Put your efforts on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u190	...to have a CIM service available to the Galicians. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u191	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u192	They support our amendments, which speak of commitments and of the capacity that what they claim for the Ponte Caldelas case may indeed be kept not only for this but for all the municipalities of Galicia. Only in that case will we support your proposal; otherwise, we will opt for abstention from something we believe does not provide solutions that favour the absence of the measure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. It's been a minute and a half now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u194	...and what we understand is what led them to bring this subject here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u195	Thank you. A minute and a half passed. Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u196	Thank you, President. First of all, I wanted to reiterate once again something that we've been saying for a long time since Marea and other groups as well. In something we're going to fail collectively and all efforts will be few while there's only one woman killed, who suffers sexual assault, who suffers from economic inequality, work, or cosified. And I also wanted to start with something. I don't like it when you give gallons to more feminist or less feminist organizations. I believe that one must recognize, first of all, the feminist movement, because they, this movement, and that of all the women who have been fighting from outside the institutions, are the ones who really do the most essential work. [[Applause]] For us, of course, that information centres for women constitute a fundamental piece of prevention, detection and support in the cases of macho violence, so we again affirm that, of course, we cannot allow any of these centres to be shut down. And in this sense, we are presenting an amendment which we understand improves the initiative we hope you will accept, which would mean taking a step forward, because we think that we should give solutions to a problem that is generalized from an agreed perspective; that is, we have to solve the problem at the general level so that this affects all the municipalities in the country, and of course also at Ponte Caldelas. We understand that Junta should make greater efforts to equip the necessary material and human resources in centres that cannot carry out their work and help them not to close any center, and even to work with the prospect of opening new centers. Many times already said, there are 80 CIMs in Galicia. It seems to us that there is a totally insufficient figure, or even the CISM serves more than seven municipalities on occasion with the difficulties of access and displacement that this entails. It is not for us to take responsibility solely for municipal governments, given that the competences on this matter correspond to the Union. That does not take away the fact that, of course, municipal governments must also have as a absolute priority the maintenance of these centres. We think that in order to provide solutions to the problem that affects, as I said, many CIMs that describe many workers and many users of Ponte Caldelas, but also other centers, a comprehensive study of the situation in which we find ourselves should be able to draw up a plan that strengthens, expands and guarantees this service of such basic care at a time of resurgence of macho violence. And, as they have already said, one of the most frequently repeated problems in numerous CIMs — including in Ponte Caldelas — is work insecurity, which continues to be worrying, with a high rate of part-time contracts, even fraudulent contracts, according to numerous judicial judgments. This, of course, can't continue to be like this. On this issue there are situations of inequality in the different CIS, depending on each council, but we understand that our measure should be focused on improving all the municipalities in the country and all the centers. Labour conditions are not the right and it is urgent to modify the legal framework that binds many of the jobs to grants granted on an annual basis. Oppositions must be summoned which corresponded, as there have been staff who have been working on this pending situation, year after year, of granting the grant, with the insecurity that this entails. So in order to avoid situations like those of Ponte Caldelas's CISG, we must also work with the perspective of improving coordination, cooperation and joint work of the Galician Union with the municipalities, regardless of their political colour, because when it comes to addressing this serious problem we have to put forward collaboration and we cannot divide and segment. Strengthening the CIS network should be a fundamental objective for any equality policy. This network should not be subject to changes in municipal government or fights between parties, but should function as a true, permanent, autonomous service to all women in this country, on an equal footing, no matter where they live. That's why we ask them to vote in favour of our amendment, because we understand that it would be the beginning of showing them to be moved by women's interests and not by the party's incomes, because we think that we are using this issue of the CIM of Ponte Caldelas in a way... well, with a certain cynicism, because, as the Socialist Party's honourable Member has already said, while they are defending equality here with great words, they are cutting budget cuts. You talked about numbers. I've already finished my intervention, but there are many splits, such as subsidies to non-profit social initiative entities for programs directed to women in situations of special vulnerability, which in 2017 are 20% less than in 2016. So, as it doesn't take time, because it's not today the topic of intervention, I would ask them if they really have a commitment to inequality, to fight against macho violence, to accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u198	Thank you. We're going to try to keep a debate quiet, we're going to try not to get down to the ground on fire -- I think I've already said it on other occasions -- in what you're installed and what you want to take us all to. We're not going into that vehemence, we're going to leave it there. And in addition, we deeply regret — and I think we have already said it here on more occasions when this issue went out in the debate — that if you are using the CIM of Ponte Caldelas and the situation you are in to launch very serious and false accusations, but above all that no interest has been shown, as the Socialist Party's companion has just commented, when what was closed and opened and appeared and disappeared as Guadiana was that of Cambados; it is also true, of course, that you were ruling there. The initial position — and also waiting for you to be positioned on the amendments from the other groups — will be abstention, and let us abstain because the political use that the People's Party is making of this matter has nothing to do with the reality of the CIS in Galicia, and I believe that its initial statement, its initial intervention, has just made it clear once again, neither with regard to the model of financing for the CIMs, nor with regard to the situation that will affect these services from 2020 with the disappearance of the European Social Fund, on which its subsidies are based, nor with the increase in the competences that are their own from the reform of 2016, with which they have the obligation to assume everything that has to do with the treatment of the LGTBI collective, or with the financial reality of the Greek councils, particularly those local entities with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants. You know as well as I do that the CIM of Ponte Caldelas is exclusive for the municipality under the same conditions as that of Vigo, Pontevedra, Vilagarcia or The Road, for example, that have a higher population density. From the BNG we understand that the case of Ponte Caldelas that puts on it is the need to debate in a broad sense about the service and its management model, starting from the basis that it is an indispensable tool that must be guaranteed but not used as a bouncy weapon. The BNG, in addition to supporting the work carried out over the last ten years by the CIM workers, as it has moved them and as they collect their own municipal records, maintains its commitment to ensure that this service works and that it continues to work in the long term; something that will be conditioned, as is logical, by the judicial decision that solves the workers' employment contract; I remind you that it has been extended — as has already been done here before — until December 2016 irregularly by the People's Party, against even the criterion of the municipality's intervener who showed his repair month by month. If things had been done differently for ten years, maybe we wouldn't be in this situation today. The situation is true that it's neither desirable nor suitable, but attention is also true that it's guaranteed. We defend a future solution for the center of Ponte Caldelas but also for women's information centres in the country, not improvised. And so we defend it, or we will defend it, in the context of the open statement in the Committee on Equality — I remind you of a unanimous agreement, precisely in this House and urged by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego, because we believe that there must be a broad, non-particular debate and, above all, — I repeat — a continuation. We will defend a solution for the country's set of CIMs that will ensure the continuation of this fundamental service even when social and European funds can be finalized in that Horizon 2020. But we will also seek viability for these CIMs and even the possible extension of the service to the country map as a whole. I have said on more than one occasion that the Mountain of Lugo is absolutely deserted in these centers but, above all, I have said that the municipalities are not left alone with the management of this service, regardless of their economic resources or their population size. That is the task, from the point of view of the BNG, which corresponds to this Parliament: to have a country vision, we will not be alone and exclusively with the particular case, not with others when it is not interested, but, above all, to seek a solution for the future to ensure the survival of a service — we repeat — indispensable and fundamental to the attention of women in our country. And just because, look, I have twenty-two seconds left and you've already urged me to accumulate and spend all the time. We find her very interested and very concerned about the schedule of the Galego Nationalist Block's sectoral meetings, we let her know that we have prepared a chair next to Manuel Anxo so she can handle it. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the proposed Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u200	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Pierres, lessons are not given, lessons are received. Allah each, if you receive lessons, it will be because you need them, or you need them. I don't come here to teach anyone any lessons. [[Applause]] You're always talking about the "caramelino" of the CIM of Ponte Caldelas. The truth is that this seems to me to be a matter of serious enough for them to talk about a little candy. The closure of Ponte Caldelas's CISG is not a candy, it's a red line that should never cross, because that's where it starts. Because when you close the CIM of Ponte Caldelas, you put forward other interests different from the interests of the women of Ponte Caldelas, and you put forward interests... and you just recognized it here, like Mrs. Rodil, when she says this is a work conflict and in 2018 it will reopen the CIS. Do you know what that's called? Fraud. And we're jurists and we understand a bit of work law, we know that's a fraud, because they suppress the service so that in judgment things paint differently. Right, Mrs. Pierres? So don't try to fool us, that we don't have a hair here as fools. If you want to cheat on Ponte Caldelas' citizenship, there you are! If you want to be told that in order to maintain the service of equality, you're going to raise your taxes! Because it's already spent 30,000 euros in less than a month. And what will they tell the citizenry of Ponte Caldelas, who will raise taxes to pay that couching to break the cement ceiling? Well, there you are! [[Applause]] Look, the establishment of a Women's Information Centre is a matter of political will, Mrs. Pierres. Because, look, you as mayor can choose to hire an architect or hire a lawyer for the Women's Information Center. It's that simple, it's a matter of political will. And tell me a single Galician council that asked the General Secretariat of Equality for accreditation as CIM and that they denied it, one, Mrs. Pierres. If there's no more it's because the municipalities don't ask for it. As far as labour stability is concerned, I will tell you that as a female information centre worker in municipalities governed by the Nationalist Block of Galicia and with concellers and concelers of the Socialist Party, I had contracts far worse than they had or had the comrades of Ponte Caldelas, and as I did many companions who actually had very precarious contracts. But that's exactly why the Galician Union, when it entered the year 2009, issued an order to... as I just explained to you — whether you understood it or not understood it — did not intend to teach you a lesson, simply meant to explain that the Galician Union valued an increase in subsidies for those municipalities that gave greater stability to its workers. There were municipalities that did so and there were municipalities that did not, but that's a responsibility of the municipality. And in Cambados he didn't close the CIS, they don't lie, what he did was he took him to get to more municipalities. In 2012, there were two joint centres serving sixteen municipalities, and today there are thirty municipalities serving one hundred and seventeen municipalities. That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Quinteiro, the game for vulnerability has not been reduced, it continues to stand at 1,7 million euros; you can't come here to say that. And the powers in the field of equality, read article 25 of the Law on the Basics of Local Regime... and if they now want to change and say that the competences of equality and social services have to assume them, tell them clearly, because they've been throwing on the government for two years, because they intended to do the opposite. And even I went to the Westeros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u201	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u202	...of a law of rationalization where we changed and moved, and in Galicia we made it clear that the competences of social services remained in the municipalities, which is the administration closest to citizens. And you were totally in agreement. What is it, that Mrs. Carmela Silva now intends to lead as a leaf feminist who is another issue to defend the mayor of Ponte Caldelas? [[Murmurs.]] Well, say it loud and clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. The amendments, on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u204	On the amendments, we will accept the amendment of En Marea as an addendum and we cannot accept the amendment of the Socialist Party, because for that we already have Mrs. Carmela Silva, to defend the indefensible. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, well, time you know that you're compensated for all, you know that then in questions we have to be stricter, that's what happens, you know Parliament's Rules of Procedure. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u206	I'm sorry. What do you want the word for? Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, but Mrs. Prado has stated that she accepts it as an addition, not as a replacement; as a replacement, she has already tinted it in her intervention. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u207	Let's start with the votes. We voted firstly on the Non-Legal Proposal, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and of Noela Blanco Rodríguez. There's a deal they came up with with the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and the Galician Nationalist Block that brought us here and if you want to read it, it's four points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u208	I can read it if you like, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u209	Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u210	Despite all this, the People's Group didn't want to talk about any amendments, but I read part one and the two proposals we have in the amendment: "1. Impulse an initial plan to reverse the pharmaceutical cup that starts by assuming by the Administration the cost of medicines for those and pensioners with pensions of less than EUR 800 per month. To establish a timetable of measures that progresses progressively in the elimination of the health cover for patients in the Galego Health Service who were affected by Royal Decree 16/2012, returning to the previous situation prior to its application. 2. To study the possibility of assuming by the Administration the cost of medicines for people with incomes below the minimum interprofessional wage. 3. Addressing the Government of Spain and claiming the derogation from Royal Decree 16/2012 of 20 April of urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the national health system and to improve the quality and safety of its benefits. 4. Take the necessary measures to avoid the effect of the application of Royal Decree 16/2012 in Galicia until it is repealed by the Government of Spain."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u211	Thank you. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Ms. Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the impulse by the Greek Government of an initial plan of reversal of pharmaceutical co-operation, as well as the establishment of a timetable of measures for their progressive elimination for Sergas patients. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected as a transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u212	We are now voting on the Non-Legal Proposal, of the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Carlos Enrique López Crespo. The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group was accepted, and the other amendments were not accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Carlos Enrique López Crespo and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to adapt the reduction coefficients of retirement age to the characteristics of Galician marine-fishing activity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; votes against, 4; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u213	We are now voting on the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández. There's a deal they came up with with the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Galicia. If you want to read it, Mrs. Solla, it's yours. If not, I'll read it: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to repeal Law 1/2012, and fully restore the V Single Collective Convention, keeping the content of Article 4.1.3, with the appropriate regulatory instrument." We therefore vote for this. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with Law 1/2012 of 29 February, on temporary measures in the field of public employment of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, as well as the V Single Collective Convention. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the transactioned text of this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u214	We now vote for the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members, on the action to be carried out by the German Government and the demand to be made by the Central Government in connection with the cause of mariners belonging to the Long Hope Association in the Norwegian courts for the recognition of their right to receive their retirement pensions from that State. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u215	We are now voting on the Non-Legal Proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo. There's a transaction with an amendment from the Popular Parliamentary Group, which has already been read here. Was the transaction read or not? She's been read and you've all met her. Then we vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the tyre deposits used in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u216	We are now voting on the Non-Legal Proposal of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. David Rodríguez Estévez. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. David Rodríguez Estévez, on the amendments to be introduced by the Government of Greece in Decree 37/2006 to avoid the precarious work in which the staff hired for the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service are employed for three months a year. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the transactioned text of this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u217	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo and D. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and D. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the evaluation by the Government of Galicia of investments and judicial infrastructures in Galicia, as well as the full execution in 2017 of the Plan of Judicial Infrastructures 2010-2015. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u218	And finally, we voted for the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles García Míguez. It was accepted as adding the amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u219	I'm sorry, we don't accept it as an addition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u220	Then? Well, she accepted it as an addendum. Would you like it to be modified? I guess I won't accept it. Well, since we don't accept it, then we voted it without the amendment, we voted it as it is. [[Strong protests.]] Well, that's what there is. Sure, we vote. [[Protests.]] What are we gonna do to him? [[Strong murmurers.]] We vote without amendment. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. [[Strong protests.]] Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles García Míguez and six other Members, on the conduct of management by the Government of Galicia in front of the Council in order to take the necessary measures to prevent the closure of the Information Centre to the Woman of Ponte Caldelas Bridge. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; abstentions, 33. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u221	We opened the doors and continued the debate. Because now we have to deal with, as stated yesterday, a question, that of Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández and three other Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia. Whenever you want. Question by Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the consequences of the annulment of the licence of hotel works in the castle of Monterrey in the contract of exploitation with Paradores de España
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u222	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rueda, as you know, I am a neighbour of the County of Monterrey. A region that has and has its particular beacon, icon or reference that identifies us, and hence identifies us, in the region, in the province, in the autonomous community, in Spain and even in the world: the castle of Monterrey. Just to put us in context, two historical data. We must remember that the peace-fortress of the acropolis of Monterrey was built in the 12th century by Alfonso Enríquez, who later became king of Portugal; and another important fact, in Monterrey was printed the first incumbent of Galicia, the known Misal, who bears his own name. Today the acropolis has a generalized recognition, it is one of Galicia's largest and most significant monuments, it has been declared a national monument in 1931 and is currently listed as well of cultural interest with the category of monument. For the vicinity of Monterrey the acropolis of Monterrey is the history of our past, it is the pride of our present and we aspired to the hope and future, our living history. He will understand, therefore, that these shared realities and illusions are part of the everyday life of neighbouring; it is something of us, with him we share the joys and also the sorrows. We were glad of the state transfer to Galicia in 2009. We are also pleased with the acceptance of this fine by the Galician Council in 2010 and we have also welcomed the initial proposal for the development of a director plan. Sadly, from this act everything was painful. His new title, the Galician Union, in the hands of the People's Party, has been attacking the fortress of Monterrey for six years. And thus assaulting the living history of this region and the vivid history of the neighbors and neighbors of their region, also attacking culture and heritage and neighborhood in general. The last chapter of this intent we met in October 2016: the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia annuls the work permit to convert the castle of Monterrey into a hotel. That's why and the repercussions that this may have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u223	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u224	...we ask you the question today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u225	Ask the question. Have you formulated it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u226	The question is: What are the consequences for the Galician Xunta for the cancellation of the work licence for hotel use in the castle of Monterrey in the contract of exploitation with Paradores of Spain?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u227	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández, I am perfectly aware that you are a neighbour of that region and that you know, better than I am sure, the whole environment, of course, the architectural set and its history. I think we know as well, on the other hand, all the proceedings that have been taking place since, in fact, in 2009 the state gave in to the Council of Galicia the whole set of Monterrey, the architectural set, and the Council of Galicia accepted — as you remembered — a year later. And we can't agree that we've been attacking him for six years, quite the opposite -- in my opinion and I think that in the opinion of many people -- and, of course, not the neighborhood neighbors, not even the architectural set, what we're doing is to put it in value, ensuring, in addition, the enjoyment of the neighbors. I have to remind you -- I think I've already done it because it's not the first time you ask a question and I answer it about this issue -- that in the proposal that you had 83% of the area of the enclosure was for business and/or private use, and only 17% was for public use; exactly the opposite of what is happening now and of the proposal of the Council of Galicia. There's no big news about the situation the last time you asked a question. That, if there's a novelty, logically you're right, there's a sentence that cancels the work license given by the Monterrey Council. But you also know that later the General Plan of the Monterrey Town Hall was annulled, with which we return to subsidiary rules. And in the subsidiary rules, that limitation on which the judgment — of area and number of rooms — exists in the general plan, does not even exist subsidiary rules, with which the obligation of the Galician Union now is to apply for a licence for the future of the legislation it is currently in force, and that would not be that limitation. I'm telling you because you're asking me directly about what consequences can be derived from this sentence with the contract with National Paradors of Spain. Well, you'll just have to apply for the new regulations, it doesn't depend on us, it didn't even depend on the license given by the Monterrey Town Hall, of course, in the annulment of the General Plan. The situation is what it is, and the Council of Galicia has to do now is apply for a new license. They'll decide the courts, listen, just as they've decided. I'm saying that because no use is being made incompatible with what is authorized by the rule. You know that the National Audience in 2014 also ruled that the actions proposed by the Galician Board were perfectly suited to the Order of the Ministry of the Farm and, therefore, it was perfectly fulfilling the compatibility between use and enjoyment of the neighbors and neighbors not only in this area but also of all those who wanted to approach — 26,000, by the way, last year, 26,000 contrasted — and the hotel uses that were made after a substantial investment to ensure the sustainability of the entire fence. So this is the situation and this sentence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u229	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u230	...at least it doesn't adversely affect the contract with Paradores of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u231	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u232	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's true that there's a cancellation and it's true that you have to apply for a new license, but it's true that you also have to apply for a new license with a new project, and with the cancellation situation of the Monterrey General Plan, we don't know what consequences it might have. I don't think you know the consequences either. In any case, speaking of the fundamental, and the fundamental refers to two questions: first, in a written reply to this deputy, he said: "Monterrei's fortress is considered the most important acronym of Galicia." And the other reflection, the other statement made by the president of the board himself, which also made it in the booth and concerning the new one: "We're not going to have any bumper, we're going to have a singular bumper." It's true that it's singular, I'll say at the end why it's singular. With regard to public use. You see, in the assignment contract to Paradors the following properties are given: palace of the Counts and tower of Damas, 548.78 square meters for accommodation; rectoral house, 320.57 square meters also for accommodation; infantry barracks, for accommodation and restoration, 159 square meters. Total, 1,028.44 square meters, that's 88% of the real estate sold. With that, Mr. Rueda, it is impossible to carry out the initial destiny to which the fortress was destined. Remember: intended as a center for dissemination, innovation and promotion of fashion, wine and medicinal waters of the region; restoration and museuming of buildings and archives of the traditions of the border and nearby peoples. With an 88% assignment where that was going to be installed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u233	Thank you, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u234	...will conclude with me that it is impossible to carry out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u236	...the initial destiny.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u237	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u238	In other words, the final destiny is to prevent the initial destiny. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u239	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Shut up. Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u240	Mr. Fernández, you ask me what the consequences are, I don't know, that contract is still in force today. You say I don't know them, I tell him I'll pass the tests. That agreement with Paradors is still in force and what needs to be done — I know, and I think that everyone knows about it — in order to obtain a new licence, we will have to present a project, because that is what we will do and we will comply with the subsidiary rules that are now in force. And you will agree with me that, in the annulment of a plan and the entry into force of subsidiary rules, you have no responsibility for the Galician Union, what you will have to adapt to this new situation. As far as use is concerned, I see that it didn't cause you... I think it's something to celebrate. Listen, 26,000 people came up last year, compared to those who were approaching before they started acting in the compound, I think that indicates that it's attractive to a lot of people. Listen, that's about bringing visitors, bringing wealth to the county and putting in value an architectural set that actually has it for itself but that it was necessary to develop it so that it was attractive to many people. It's about tourism development, and it's about meeting the obligations of the Galician Union. With regard to the appropriateness or not, I again say, you do not know, you know perfectly — I am sure — the Order of the Ministry of Business of June 27, 2014, where it establishes — and I read taxively — which are the conditions for the use of the property and, among them, included the promotion of tourism through actions arranged with the State Tourist Administration and that was also what it later rectified the National Audience. Therefore, we are complying with the regulations, Mr. Fernández. One of the plaintiffs was the now mayor of Verín and they didn't give him the reason for that appeal, but he didn't, if I didn't suppose the courts would have given it to him. And so what was said is that the Council of Galicia was acting properly in the position in value of this enclosure not only with the works destined for the national paraphernalia, but also with the adequacy of the entire environment, which is much more than that and you know perfectly well. I'm going to tell you, in that plan of uses that you had -- it's not a master plan either -- and it's been developed almost three years before you knew whether you were going to have the assignment or not, there was talk about that the possibilities are very broad, they would only be limited to the necessary respect for cultural values, and they were talking about residential use, private or public housing, private host, commercial, industrial... all that would be allowed in 83% of the surface. I think it is much more respectful what the Galician Council did and, if there had been any evidence, in my opinion, that 26,000 people had visited the compound last year — we hope that there would be a lot more this year — that there would be a value-setting program — summers at the castle — and 2,000 people specifically attending that, and fulfilling the commitment to give a specific value from a tourist point of view to that fence. I think things are going to work out and they're going to be worth it. He said he didn't respect that original destiny of the Castle of Monterrey there's a long distance. I can't agree, and 26,000 people aren't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u241	Thank you, Vice President. We suspended the session until sixteen hours and thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u242	To continue the afternoon session, we started with the interpellations. D. Antón Sánchez García and 13 other members of the G.P. in Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in the field of energy poverty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u243	Mr Sánchez García of the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u244	Good afternoon. I don't know what they have these hours, but we'll try to lift our spirits. I don't know if there's quorum? Good afternoon, Counselor. In the last month, a number of facts have been concentrated that are evidence of the big scam and of the theft that is the electrical system in this country and with which you are convivient and collaborators. There's evidence of large-scale theft of the people, of the spolian to the Greeks and to the galleys permitted by government of the state and of the board, which theoretically should defend the general interests of most people. These events that have concentrated in the last month are that spectacular increase in light prices, just in times when people need it most to warm up and to be at home in the cold winter; spectacular increases for greater glory and benefit of the large oligopolie electricity companies. Another fact that recently came out: Mr. Arsenio Fernández de Mesa's appointment as councillor for the Spanish Electric Network Administration Council — I don't know if this is good for you, it seems bad or not, charging EUR 150,000 annually. I don't know what valuation can lead to your doing. And then it also coincided a few days ago in this country; a temp, on the other hand, predictable and that caused electric power supply cuts to some 500,000 people in Galicia, 50,000 of them for several days. And I also wanted to ask you, although you're not on the question: because Mr. Feijóo didn't want to come in, what do you also deserve from this country that there are people in rural that can be three, four or five days without electricity, with the consequent economic and personal prejudices, that there are, and varied? I don't know if you think you've done the job well, I don't know if you think you've done that job well in the face of a natural monopoly, which is that of Fenosa Natural Gas in this country in the electric distribution service. A natural monopoly where it is impossible to generate that competition and where the only defense of users is that there is an exaggerating government that controls this company to do maintenance and repair work and maintain a staff who knows the area well, who knows the facilities well, who knows the work well. That's your role. And from what we saw, from the results we saw, you didn't play that role. And the users, the Greeks and the Greeks, especially in the countryside, were defenseless. It's intolerable. Of all things, it is intolerable that in this country there were people who were three, four or five days without electricity, when we know that these companies charge on bills of light around the world millionaires per year, in theory to do their job well. Instead, what they do is they pay off that money, they don't do maintenance jobs, they subcontract, they fire people, they precariously, they put people in this country who aren't even from this country who don't know the areas, etc. And you allowed all that. You in 2009 were called to the Bipartisan Government, under similar circumstances, inept, incapable and passive. And then, if the same thing has just happened, you're inept, incapable and passive. I'd say more, they're collaborators with this situation. And all this, Counselor, in a country that exports nearly 1 out of 3 megawatts of what it produces, many of them produced with strong environmental impacts. In 2015 Galicia produced approximately 29,000 gigavats/hour and consumed 19,000. The rest was for other parts of the state and Portugal so that other people would benefit from this electricity supply, paying the same prices as the Greeks and Greeks that bear those impacts. And in that country that is surplus, in that country that supports those environmental impacts by the electrical production of which it is not benefited, we also see that, according to the data of the National Institute of Statistics, it is the second autonomous community with a higher level of energy poverty, only behind the Valencian Autonomous Community, and with 15.4% of the homes in situations of energy poverty. I don't know, as an advisor to a government in this country, what his opinion deserves. Why are we producing energy if we do not benefit from that production? Energy poverty. Well, what's really there is poverty. This is another manifestation of poverty. The same as we say for the defiances we say for this called energy poverty. Poverty has increased. In this country there are many people who don't have to live and there are many people who don't have to pay for the light, who don't have to pay for the housing or who don't have just to pay for the food. It's not random, it's not a matter that can be solved with makeup. It's a structural question of that model that they want to bring to us and that they want us to say that it's already that of recovery and consolidation, which is the model of inequality. I don't know if it seems or not normal to give this data of energy poverty, that is, there are people who have no money to pay the bill of light, when we have in Galicia 18,000 pensioners who have pensions under 300 euros a month, according to the data of the German Network against Poverty, and 350,000 people who have between 300 and 650 euros a month, that is, 470,000 pensioners who have a level below the poverty threshold; or who, for example, 10% of employees, who are about 90,000 or 100,000 people, do not exceed 434 euros a month; or there are 70,000 homes where all members are unemployed or where there are approximately 100,000 people who have been without a job for over two years. With these figures, it's normal that there's a huge level of people in this country who can't afford the bill of light. On the other hand, another of the factors that influences the price of electricity, one of the most expensive domestic consumption prices in the European State in a supposed liberalisation that the only thing that has done was to give public control to a few companies — an oligopolie, no liberalisation — was to give them all power and disarm us as a society and, therefore, to allow abuses such as to double the receipt of the bill of light since that liberalisation. And before that, you focus on this problem as if it were a minor problem, as if it were a conjunctural, superficial problem, and they act only through measures that try to be palliative. I think they're more propagandistic, with very little dimension to the problem we're talking about. You have two aids to alleviate energy poverty -- we're not talking about the structural issue, about the poverty they create -- you have two lines of help: that of the electric social ticket, for which they initially target an budget of EUR 793,000, and that of the urgent social aid to avoid the cuts in the supply of light. It's at all insufficient lights, Counselor, at all insufficient lights. Look, the social electric ticket has a count of 180 euros per year; 300 if it's a large family. But to perceive these benefits, you have to have minors in charge or someone with disabilities. What about people who have this income, as I told you before, and don't have a minor charge? What about them? That they can't access these aids. This is in the case of the social electric ticket, to which only those who do not exceed 1.5 % IPREM can access; i.e. some 9,000 euros per family unit — in all light, insufficient, Counsellor — and the aid for the cut-off of supply, to which only people who do not exceed the IPREM can choose, i.e., family units that do not exceed an income of 6,300 euros, of 6,390 euros per year, and which are used for cases where a cut-off of the supply of light is going to take place. This will subsidise two bills and 200 euros per request at most. Well, what's going on? That, with such strict criteria, in the previous year it was not executed, it was left without execution of a very important amount, which was dedicated, diverted, to the illumination of the City of Culture or to meet Corcoesto's demand. Not executed. What are you doing? As it hasn't been executed, instead of opening your hand and broadening your criteria so that you can access more people because there are people in need of these aids, you're going to cut the budget. So they leave a ridiculous budget. Finally, Counsellor, first of all, do you, on the one hand, believe that in a country that is surplus in electrical production, it is by receipt that these things happen, that there are these levels of energy poverty? You think you're helping them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u245	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u246	...that the plans that your Government has made to try to address this very serious problem are sufficient? Do you think it's necessary to expand the criteria so that everyone can access...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u247	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u248	...that you need this help? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, the truth is that you come here to talk about everything, to mix everything, as you have just done, is more evidence that the Tides of Podemos do not want to speak seriously and rigorously about the problems that affect the Greeks, nor about the problems that they really do and, in this case, affect the electrical system. If I think I should take care of your language because coming here to talk about this government having a convolence with scams or thefts, it's just a political fear that you should correct yourself as a Member and as a representative of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] In any case, Your Honor, allow me to focus on the facts, but in this case I'm going to focus on your facts, on the facts of your parliamentary group, because, look, a week ago at the Congress of Deputies you voted 'no' to a real decree law, 7/2016, so a new mechanism for financing the cost of the social bond is regulated and that consolidates this mechanism for about 250,000 Greek homes. And you, ladies and gentlemen, voted that not even a real decree setting out specific measures to protect vulnerable electrical consumers. As you know, a second category of consumers that require greater support is also introduced — especially in this House — a third category of consumers with a severe vulnerability, to which they will no longer be able to suspend electricity supply, and will also introduce other obligations to electricity companies, such as notifying households and social services in the autonomous communities of defaults, extending from two to four months the deadline to proceed to the court of electricity supply, or also the obligation to inform customers of the method of hiring the price of the small consumer and the social bond, among other measures. I know you guys in Madrid seem to be more focused on defending the state. This morning we saw how you actually support measures that benefit Castile-Leon and other autonomous communities, but they do not seem to deal clearly with Galicia. I think you here in Galicia have a great opportunity to talk about Galicia and to defend the interests of the Greeks. But, Your Honor, at all that you said no, you just didn't. I'd like to know what your position on all these aspects is so that the En Marea group here in Galicia does not support this kind of action. Therefore, I think it is good to put the debate in place, it is good to place the facts that your parliamentary group is moving in Madrid in this case and it would be good for you here, in Galicia, at least, to defend the Greeks and leave your parliamentary group in Madrid, which seems to be used to other objectives. In any case, I think it is also good to remember, indeed, what the position of the Galician Union is with regard to the most vulnerable homes, and I believe that the commitment of this government is complete. And, Your Honor, you seem to be agreeing in 2017 on the measures that can benefit and can alleviate energy poverty, but this government — and it seems not to be paying much attention — has been one of the first governments in Spain to act against energy poverty, and since 2014 we have specific measures to tackle energy poverty. I welcome this debate and, therefore, we are actually open to discussing and improving these measures, but these measures, ladies and gentlemen, have been in the year 2014 and I think it is good to acknowledge that, indeed, this government is concerned about the situation of homes that are in a more vulnerable situation. We have the social electric ticket and we have that order of help to avoid the cost of electricity supply, and it has been forgotten — I remind you — that there is a third measure, because that order to avoid supply cuts also extends to natural gas, an initiative of this government, which is concerned not only about the situation, in this case, of electricity, but also about those consumers who can depend on natural gas. Finally, they are concrete measures that try to alleviate energy poverty, and I would also like to remind you that these measures are additional to the other measures which, in Galicia, the Greek families can benefit themselves. I'm talking about the social bond, which you don't seem to want to support, and you know that the sum of the social bond and the electric ticket can save 40% of the receipt on the bill of light, which you also logically add to the measures that the Galician Union has in relation to social policy, such as Risga, because you know that Risga also has as its objective, precisely, to fight energy poverty. I therefore believe that this government is responding with concrete actions. And I'm going to put another nuance on it, I'm going to try to be pedagogical, because you know that over these two years 100 percent of applications have been met, and you know, because this government has already said it, that in 2017 they will be treated 100 percent. I think I'm trying to confuse the budget execution, when 100 percent of the applicants received their help and when the Government's commitment is that the 100 percent of all the aids that can be presented in 2017 are being handled, I don't think it's responding, therefore, to the reality that you want to move. In any case, you know that this aid order, these two aid orders, which include natural gas, are measures that are being applied with maximum agility; they are resolved immediately, with maximum transparency, and also, as I said, with maximum budget effectiveness, because we are going to respond to the 100 percent of the requests that are being received. So this government is aware that energy poverty is a priority and this government is also logically aware that there is room for improvement. Therefore, this government has transferred that commitment that once the new general framework of the state is defined, because logically we will have to work as we can adapt the different measures we have in Galicia to the development of that Royal Decree Law 7/2016, to which you voted against. I hope they can rectify — correct it is also wise — and, therefore, they can accompany us, commit themselves and study the different measures that may benefit and that they can expand the coverage of these different initiatives. I have already had the opportunity to transfer that invitation to Mr. Villares, to present their proposals, I believe that we are in a context not only of the development of the Royal Decree Law 7/2016, of the Social Bonus, but also of the processing of this popular legislative initiative that we have pending in this House, and that I believe it is a good opportunity to lay foundations for our future on the greatest possible consensus. But just three principles, Mr Sánchez: popular legislative initiative on legality, realism and the competences of this autonomous community. I only ask your group to take responsibility. I think we have a logical opportunity to work on the development of the various initiatives. And if I were to ask you to leave the demagogy aside, because, look, it's not true that this government puts the interests of the electricians first. That's a way of talking, because you like to talk so much without realising. Because, look, this government wasn't what forgave the electricity for the costs of transition to competition; it wasn't this government. This government has not developed a developmental scenario for renewable energy, where we have paid an inconceivable learning cost for Spain, as was done in 2009 or 2011. And this government is acting, logically, with responsibility for the electricians and, when it has to sanction it, it punishes. And there we have these sanctions through the Galego Institute of Consumption, where we have imposed sanctions for 24 million euros when, by the way, those sanctions in the Bipartite were 90,000 euros. So don't do demagogy, don't demagogy with the electric tariff, don't demagogy with the position of the energy policy, and I believe, Your Honor, that we have the opportunity, as I told you, to keep working, to respond to the reality and needs of the most vulnerable people. There are concrete measures that are being implemented and we have, logically, the possibility of further expanding this range of measures and, therefore, of the hands of the central government and of the development of that real law governing the social bond, to be able to continue to benefit and apply measures that can effectively alleviate the energy situation here in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u251	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the word Mr. Sánchez García in your reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u252	Counsellor, you're sure it wasn't the one who forgave EUR 3,000 million of the cost of transition to competition, there's more than one person in charge of this electrical system, and that's what we agree with. But you are the ones who passed the law of the 97th electric sector, which liberalized the sector, and you were the ones who privatized Endesa, for example, and Mr. Aznar ended up as advisor to the Board of Directors of Endesa, charging for a soldier. And so there's a lot of these cases, so we say that you're convivials and collaborators, and we're going to keep saying that, Counselor, because we see it well and we don't like that even above that we can't tell the truth. [[Applause]] You collaborate and you benefit, because you've had time to talk here about Podemos, the Tides of Podemos, the Congress, etc., but you haven't had time to talk about your linemate, Mr. Arsenio Fernández de Mesa, which is a shame, because it seems like we haven't scandalized ourselves at all. But this gentleman, who has been living from the public administrations without being able to do the "o" with a canuto, will charge EUR 150,000 on the Spanish Electric Network Management Board, because they also put him as the government delegate and because they said, "It will be, it won't be too much trouble here." [[Applause]] And the Prestige came and he saw what good he did, a confusing and diffused management. And we put those people there. Because the free competition that has brought us is: let's get along with the PP governments — and the Socialist Party when it played — and then we'll have guaranteed benefits. Those are the merits to be done. You don't have to know about distribution, you don't have to know about electric transport, you have to be friends with those who rule to make the laws tailored to us. You're telling me not to demagogy. I don't do demagogy, I gave him the data. If the National Institute of Statistics says that there are 15.4% of the homes in Greece that suffer from energy poverty, which means nearly 400,000 people, and you come here to sell me a line of help that only reaches, at most, according to the data you gave here, to 6,000 beneficiaries, what is the matter, Counsellor? That you help them, of course, don't reach all the people who need it. That's what happens, and you come here to deny the obvious. You say you take care of 100 percent of the help. Of course, the 100 percent of the aid they're doing with the criteria, but I've already told you that two people who earn a $300 pension and peak euros and live together, if they don't have a minor charge, you don't have the right to ask for or even these help, and you're telling me that these people don't suffer from energy poverty, Counsellor? Do you think that reaching 6,000 people, with a maximum of 300 euros a year, if you are a large family, and 180 euros helps to alleviate energy poverty in this country? Man, you're taking my hair, this Parliament and all the Greeks and all the Greeks. You haven't had time to talk about power supply cuts either. They'll do very well, but to me it seems to be a third-worldist, Counsellor, who are five days without electricity, knowing that Gas Natural Fenosa has paid the last year 715 million euros for doing the distribution work and that you vote have an obligation to keep an eye on them and that things are done well. Well, help orders, Counselor. Why do you in 2016 leave more than 200,000 euros out of that order for having very restrictive criteria and diverting them from illuminating the City of Culture — Gaiás is also one of the great contributions of the People's Party to this country — and to Corcoesto's demand? Because, in view of this fact, it's obvious that a government can say: I don't execute because the order was like this, there weren't enough requests; well, I don't execute. What about the next year we're doing? Home!, a government that wants to help people with energy poverty, what it does is change the criteria to be able to execute the whole budget. We're talking about 600,000 euros. You dropped it to 400,000 euros, Counselor. And you'll tell me: you can always increase. Yes, but until the criteria are changed and more people can access it will not be executed. So, if you're telling me that we're willing to change, because they change, they change criteria, so you can access all the people who need it, because you tell me: worry about Galicia. Look, we haven't ruled in this country in the last eight years, you've ruled, you haven't just arrived, have you? And that poverty levels have increased in this country, that wages have dropped, that long-term unemployed people have increased and that people have emigrated is not our fault. That increasing poverty in this country in recent years will be your responsibility, and you are the ones who have to respond. So, demagoxy, nothing, I gave him data, I gave you data that clearly shows that you're not dealing with such a dramatic problem that people can't afford the bill of light to have heating or to live a decent life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, you continue to mix themes. I'll try to sort out the different aspects that you moved in your intervention. To me the only thing that surprises me is that vision of arbitrariness that you have to apply the different orders of help. You were talking about opening your hand. Look, in an order of help you don't open your hand, in order of help you run according to the criteria in that order of help. And, above all, what seems to me to be irresponsible is that he comes to this House and transfers him to a government that does not execute an budget. The responsibility of this government is to carry out 100 percent of the budget and therefore once 100 percent -- that's the concept, the 100 percent concept, it seems that I do not transfer it with sufficient force or clarity -- of the requests that have been submitted — that have been met by 100 percent -- because from there, the responsibility of a government... I see that you... now I understand why in Coruña and Santiago have a lot of difficulty in implementing their budgets, but, in any case, the responsibilities of this government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u255	Mr. Sánchez, please listen to what they have to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u256	Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u257	Sorry, Mr. Count. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, look, Mr. Sánchez, you used, on the first turn, six minutes to talk about anything but the matter, now listen to what you're answering. If you don't like it, keep quiet and listen and, if not, ask again. You are not in the use of the word, Mr. Sánchez. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, then, shut up and listen to what they're saying. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'll call you in order for the first time, Mr. Sánchez. Listen to what you're answering, and if you don't like the answer, ask yourself another question again. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, please listen. I call him in order once, if I call him the second time you know what the consequences of the third time are. Yes, you know, if not, read the Rules of Procedure, which are at the disposal of all Members. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. Continue, Mr. Conde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u258	Thank you very much. Obviously, Mr. Sánchez, we don't comply, we have a number of measures, we have a real decree. I gather with quite interest the fact that you had not spoken out in your second intervention on the Royal Decree. His silence I understand that it is a position which certainly does not agree with his group's position in Madrid. I hope that in the development of that Royal Decree we can bring the interests of the Greeks here, Galicia, and see how from Galicia these orders of help we can accompany them to develop that Royal Decree and thus improve the position of vulnerable people. [[Applause]] In any case, I think you do demagogy, I sincerely believe it, and I have the responsibility to answer it. You were talking to me about your intervention in energy exports and, indeed, the energy system here in Galicia. I'd like you to explain to the Greeks who's going to pay for the infrastructure they need to have electricity in their homes and businesses. And I would also like you to explain to the Greeks how much you can raise your bill if you break the connections we have with the rest of Spain. And I'd like to know how you're going to guarantee electricity when it doesn't produce enough for the market. I don't think they're interested in the operation of the electrical system, if you come here mixing. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, I think it would be good for them to focus the debate. I'm telling you, I'd like to know how you want to guarantee that power supply, since it's about the system, when it can't produce enough. And I'd like to know what your position on Reganosa is then or on the thermal power stations of The Bridges and Cerceda, of which, logically, you are against. In any case, we will continue — as I said — to develop concrete measures to alleviate the situation of energy poverty here in Galicia. We have measures and we have the possibility, in the development of that Royal Decree, of improving the different beneficiaries of the social bond. And I give you another fact that I gave you in the first intervention: the sum of the social bond and the electric ticket in Galicia means in some families saving 40% of their energy bill. So, I think that's the way, and we have to go deeper into the different measures that can improve the situation of the most vulnerable companies. In any case, I've already said that since the Government we have that tender hand. What I would ask you, logically, is that once we have actually focused on the issue, and once we have focused on the measures that we have taken from both the Central Government and the Autonomous Community, we are developing to improve the situation of vulnerable people, you talk about Galicia, talk about the Greeks, and abandon those centralist positions that your group seems to have in Madrid. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. We moved on to the next interpellation. Interpellation by Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and Ms. Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, from the G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the policy of the Greek Government in the field of public employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u260	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u261	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Advocate of Fairy, as we have had this morning, on the occasion of a non-legislative proposal, to mention the necessity I think that it is absolutely essential to promote the derogation from Law 1/2012, temporary measures in the field of public employment in Galicia, we had an opportunity to debate this issue, and basically on a purely normative issue, but also on a matter of budgetary context. First, legally the law itself establishes its own expiry, since the budgetary context is the current one for the 2017 budgets. And on the other hand, because this law, by establishing a deadline almost of duration, necessarily has to be the object of that derogation, because the rules and the context — as I said — of the 2017 accounts so require. It is true that this law, which was born with this temporal nature, was part—as could not be otherwise—of a package of measures approved by the Central Government; a series of decrees of 2012, cutting public spending for fiscal consolidation, which in our opinion — and I believe that in the view of much or the whole society— both damage has been done to public services throughout the country, and of course also in Galicia. We recall that the Act 1/2011, of measures — as I said — provisional measures, carried out a series of drastic cuts in public employment, and in the whole of the labour rights of public employment, of the 90,000 public employees in Galicia, in terms of employment disability situations, in terms of social action, restriction of rights in the prolongation of living conditions in the active service when the age of forced retirement is met — a question which has been so badly damaged in a way I would say special in health services —, the unilateral suspension of many requirements of the fifth collective agreement, and notably Article 12 in relation to rest and travel, or certain restrictions in the provision of jobs and the mobility of public employees. Together with all these decisions, more than administrative and budgetary, political, the different State budget laws, and therefore the consequentially approved by the Government of Greece, imposed rates of replacement of troops, ranging from 10% in 2011 to 50% generally in 2016, preventing the necessary renewal of all necessary personnel to ensure the operation with certain thresholds of quality of public services. What's more, they've caused these replacement rates a progressive loss of stable employment of very difficult recovery. But if also for Galicia was not relevant the wage measure for the abolition of that extraordinary payment of December 2012 — which was, of course, returned by wrong application, to the trial of the courts—, the Government of Greece, during the years 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, additionally imposed a pay cut for all public employees around an average of 5% annually by removing the specific supplement or equivalent concept in extraordinary payments. In this matter, although the Galician Union has been a leader in the whole — and you know perfectly well — of the entire public sector of the state in that pay cuts. Yes, he was a real leader! This is a salary cut of public employees' salaries in Galicia that could have assumed around 750 million euros over these four years; a reduction of about 20% of the wages of public employees in Greece. With this salary devaluation, because it's nothing but a wage devaluation and therefore social devaluation, it's easy to show austerity, efficiency, adjustment of the public deficit, but it really goes against the necessary provision of public services of quality and, on the other hand, growth itself in terms of domestic demand. All this brief report of the cuts applied by the Government of the Council of Galicia, which, of course, presents a rather disheartening aspect of how public services can remain in Galicia, even it was against the own pronouncements of that Law 1/2012, which said: to achieve a balance situation, without undermining the provision of essential public services and preserving the principle of solidarity between the citizenship of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Precisely the Popular Group this morning said, in opposing the derogation from Law 1/2012, that exactly what was being guaranteed this balance. I think you don't even think so yourself. We have a number of data and situations that show this severe deterioration of the autonomic public services. The 2016 autonomous budget, which is not so far away, and above all that the effects are still being noted in the field of justice, social action, education or health services, was less than 1,246 million euros than in 2008, and the 2017 budget has no better prospects, beyond the recovery of the specific complement of extra payments, after the agreements with the trade union organizations in the summer of last year. In health services, nearly 3,000 stable jobs were lost in health services; in non-university education, the loss of teachers was around 2,500; in the area of the three universities in Greece, the loss of teachers was around 400; and as on the other day we had an opportunity to verify, on the occasion of a non-legislative proposal presented by the People's Group, according to INE data, in the period 2010-2015 Galicia lost 1,700 in the field of R & D, 1,000 in the field of higher education system and 400 in the research services of the different public administration centres. And the rate of temporary employment, precisely because of this steady fall of employment, has increased by 50%, from 10,000 contracts in 2011 to 15,000 in 2015. Of course, in these situations we find it difficult to understand how certain epidemiological repugnants cause certain health care services to collapse, certain hospital services. As ratios — by a lot of example — of teachers/pupils in non-university education in urban areas are in a more delicate situation than you advocate. It seems to us that the loss of R & D personnel is absolutely serious, that can never be a bet on the progress of our society, on knowledge, on the change of production model, etc. And then we're faced with serious internal security deficiencies, too, in the area of adscribed autonomic police, in forces and security bodies, even if they have no direct competition, but there's an absolute interrelationship with the central government's public employment measures, or a whole series of emergency personnel issues, and perhaps some of these problems have something to do with the lack of time-consuming response at the time of this weekend. On the other hand, we have the situation of a lot of temporary workers in the areas of social policy to which the changes that are being introduced by the back door — we say so, clearly — in Galicia's public employment law can leave us in a situation of absolute concern; we have all the incidence of labour insecurity that is being reported in the safety and health committees, caused by certain suspensions of the rights of the collective agreement. The People's Valator himself, in that October 3rd report, urges the Council of Galicia to consider — not as an immediate obligation, but as a result — to resume social dialogue, even though in successive budget projects they have to graduate. And we can also recall the judgments of the European Union Court of Justice of September 2016, denouncing the occupation of structural situations with temporary contracts, or the serious discrimination in the field of compensation between temporary contracts and interim contracts in respect of fixed contracts. What to say about the suppression of the counseling body of the Advisory Council, Mr. Counsellor, that we do say it is by the back door, that it is with alleviation, that it is with nightfall. We really should ask ourselves whether this is the respect they have to the legally declared independence of the highest consultative body in the Government, and whether this is really for your democratic quality, is it not? In fact, we are not faced with a set of temporary measures for the simple reduction of public expenditure, of budget expenditure in Chapter I in the public sector, nor are we faced with a mere account of administrative and budgetary decisions, but we are indeed in a policy that is always designed to slow down public services, to reduce the capacity for redistributive action that the social state has and well-being — which is, on the other hand, a constitutional principle — to deregulation and thus to facilitate new areas of privatization. This responds to this whole -- not new, but part of the 1980s -- trend of absolute liberalization and individualization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u262	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u263	...of social problems, which are once again addressed from a vision of absolute welfare and completely abandoning protection and fair social redistribution. Counsellor, the GDP data of 2016, the forecasts that are being projected for 2017 and that are improving the economic situation, together with the repeated commitment of the President of the Board to the sustainability of public services and the ongoing dialogue with society as a whole, demand to review and reverse this whole set of measures that we expect were conjunctural, although we fear that this is not the case for some of the pronouncements this morning by the People's Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u264	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u265	...—if, now finished, President—adopted by the Government of Greece during this last term of office in public employment. That's why our parliamentary group asks the Government to ask you clearly what forecast and what schedule of work you are willing to take back social dialogue and collective bargaining in this new economic scenario, so that we can achieve among all a pact for employment and public services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u267	...for this term 2017-2020.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u268	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u269	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u270	Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u271	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, first of all, I would like to recapture the context in which the Government had to take extraordinary measures because we were at a very difficult time. In 2012, we had to undertake a series of reforms in public service — yes, temporary — in order to safeguard the sustainability of basic public services. We responsible governments take action, even some of them as difficult but indispensable as we had to take five years ago. But do you remember what the situation was in 2012? We were immersed in the year of the greatest recession of the deepest economic crisis in the last few decades, with a fall of GDP above 2%, with a deficit released that swirled 9%, and with a premium of risk that has overcome the 600 core points and put Spain at the edge of the rescue. Unemployment reached unsustainable figures; companies either shut down or left their employees in the street, or performed temporary ERE and reduced days and wages. In that context, it was clear that something had to be done since the Government in the field where we could act directly. And he chose, once again, to be responsible and to demand a temporary effort from public servants. And with an objective, that all the Greeks were still shielding health, education and social services, despite the exceptional economic crisis we were going through. I am convinced that the public employees understood this because it was not the first time that public employees were asked to make an effort, because in May 2010 the Central Government — where it was governed by the Socialist Party — adopted another measure of an extraordinary nature: reducing the wages of public employees in Spain by 5% forever. I don't know if you remember why you didn't quote him on his initiative. [[Murmurs.]] It's surprising that for you it seems that the cuts and adjustments that were to be made started in 2012. [[Murmurs.]] On the contrary, what the Greek Government did was take temporary measures but also prioritize both stability and quality in public employment during the crisis, rather than many other administrations. Speaking of stability, Galicia was during the crisis the community that kept its number of troops more stable; the drop was 0.05%, while the average of autonomous communities is 1.2. In this sense, it is not only true that the loss of stable jobs cited, but that this year, for example, we will offer 3,000 stable public jobs. We are in the same numbers of self-government personnel as in 2008, and even we have 40 more public employees in health and education — data from the Ministry of Business. Speaking of quality of employment, other administrations — such as Andalusia — did lower 10% a day and wages to temporary employees; we treat the employees of Greece the same way. And when it began to improve the economic situation, this government negotiated with representatives of better public employees in the workplace. Among the improvements achieved, we boost public job offers; more than 2,600 squares offered in 2016, and this year — as I told you — we will offer more than 3,000 squares. We have pushed transfer contests, more than 6,800 squares offered since 2009; we have implemented voluntary partial retirement of workers, more than 450 beneficiaries. We approved hourly flexibility and telework, more than 9,000 beneficiaries; we returned vacation days and free-will depending on antiquity — we were the first in Spain to do this measure. And we have adopted measures to promote family reconciliation. Your Honor, for the rest of the permits and holidays, as well as for wages on all the alleged temporary disability, we are applying in our community as much as possible the basic state legislation. As is the case with the replacement rate of troops, which in Galicia has always reached the ceiling that allows the State Budgets Act. To a large extent, it is up to you, the Socialists, that this reposition rate that you mentioned earlier in your intervention can be improved by supporting the accounts of the Central Government. I doubt it very much. In social matters, we also perform actions to improve the working conditions of workers. In fact, since 2015 151 new squares — all of them occupied — have been created to increase the chances of enjoying the days of personal affairs without being conditional on service needs, in addition to important advances in the development of family and work reconciliation. You're talking about less money for health and education than before the crisis. It seems to me that we already discussed it here when it was budgeted, and the data totally refutes its assertion. We are on a level of budgetary resources comparable to those of 2008 and 2009, but without traps, therefore, we must exclude the negative liquidations that we have still paid — practically we have already paid 980 and some million euros — which we still have much to pay for, these 600 million practically of 2008 and those 1,500 long years of 2009, precisely because we do not recognize the economic crisis. And with budgets with levels comparable to those of 2009, this government continues to prioritize and gives greater weight to the most important for people. Because with similar levels of expenditure, this government devotes more resources to health care and more resources to education. This government is dedicated to health more than 5 points than in the years I referred to earlier; in education we have devoted more than 2 points to economic welfare. And we're close to 25% of the total resources for education policies. This year alone, we have increased resources for social spending by EUR 229 million, which adds to 200 as of the year 216. As for the defendant for you in a public employment pact, I'll tell you one thing with maximum peace of mind. Collective bargaining has not been invented by you, we have no original sin on this subject. The Galician Union is in a permanent process of dialogue with trade union organizations, and that dialogue is enabling us to achieve improvements in the working conditions of public employees. To show, eight types of agreements: the increase of OPE squares in 2016, in the internal promotion for workers; the increase of internal promotion in the accumulated OPE squares 2015-2016; the specific offer of public employment for the first time for people with intellectual disabilities; the creation of the follow-up commission on applications of instructions on the holiday scheme, permits and licences; the recognition of military service time at the expense of the V-convention staff; the Forest Firefighters Agreement and its second activity; the timeline of the effectiveness of the new scale of technical advisors in environmental management; the Partial Retirement Agreement... and many more that we continue to negotiate, as today, which has not been successfully completed but which I hope will close in the near future. All this I've just told you has been agreed on and agreed to with the unions in the last year. And if we talk about wages, this government's priority this year was to restore to all public employees the specific complement of their extra wages, and we also sign it with trade union organizations. And despite the fact that budgets have not been approved until this week because — as we all know — of the holding of the autonomous elections, the payment of extra full pay has been retroactive since the first of January. Your Honor, we are committed to improving the conditions of public servants when we can, we continue to do so and we will not stop. Once the extra payments are completed, our goal is to equate the wage conditions of all self-employed public employees. There are no public employees who, by performing the same task or function, have different pay conditions. Our staff policy is not to singularize collectives, but to end fragmentation, to approve conditions and to avoid discriminatory treatment. This is to make personal policy responsible, Your Honor; not to sink into difference, but to equate. We trust you to reach consensus on this line, even with your group, if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u272	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u273	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you again. Counsellor, there's a question, a way of presenting or exposing things or using words by the receiver of that communication that I don't know if they sometimes turn out in some way — by saying it in a gentle way — offensive or paternalistic way. When it is said that public employees in Galicia, or on the whole — or any type of employee, public or private — the measures applied to them were because if they were asked for an effort, it is difficult to assimilate. I'd ask them to speak of a unilateral imposition, of a way of seeing society, of a decision as a political set, etc. But please don't tell us, don't tell all the workers, either public or private, that if you ask for an effort and then, in a magnificent way, if you're returning some of those cut rights. I believe that, as in other areas of politics, words are important, and therefore they must be as offensive as possible and as conciliatory as they may be. I think it's important, because it's not exactly the first time we've heard about the efforts we've been asking for. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The efforts requested were not in other fields and economic powers, but this would give us a lot of debate. Counsellor, the increase in the temporality rate between 2010 and 2015 is in the published data. And when we turn to the data from the Central Staff Registry of the Ministry of Business and Public Administration, but to the data it has published on the website to the Galician Union, we see as between the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2016 the decline in structural jobs in public employment in Galicia has a reduction of 2,900 jobs. It's data published by your advisor's office in different fields. So I'm sending myself back to the sources of the Galician Union. So it is not only that there is a reduction in structural employment, but that there is also an increase — which is necessary to cover services — of the rate of timeliness which I think cannot hide. We hope that the replacement rates in the 2017 and subsequent years — as we say in some way — will be released, so that we will all be able to recover the lost public employment. And in that sense we hope that this rate of rest which is still not approved in the field of the General Administration of the State — and therefore in the Autonomic Administration — will give that possibility. Because those 3,000 places of the offer they're talking about this year — which we still don't know what their structure is — obviously wouldn't cover 50% of the lost public employment. Another important issue in that so-called effort that they asked the public employees. We will never tire of saying that it was precisely Galicia, exclusively Galicia, the Galician Union and the President of the Galician Union, the only autonomous Government that applied the salary reduction that he applied for these four years, the only one. I don't think it's a medal they can make. And most important. If things are so spoken, so dialogueable and so negotiated with the representatives of the workers — as you said from this gallery — that, of course, we will be able to check it every day. But to us, and to society as a whole, the demonstrations that we have had at Parliament's doors during these days, and in the face of autonomous headquarters, do not seem to believe that the process of collective bargaining is open. That's why I say that the steps taken by the German Government in these first months of this new mandate, at least for now, do not announce any intention to resume that promised social dialogue. The way of presenting, rather than negotiating, the draft budgets to trade union organizations, two days before they approved it at the Council of the Union, forced several unions to challenge this way of proceeding before the courts; to see that they say the courts about this collective bargaining. The substantial amendments to the Public Employment Act of Galicia and the Consultative Council, through — I insist — the use of the 2017 Law in law fraud, are an example of this lack of dialogue and a democratic heel. As I said, the permanent mobilizations of workers' representatives do not believe that, at least for now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u274	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u275	...there is an open collective bargaining process. When we talk about public employment, Mr. Counsellor, we talk about quality of public services. That's why our interpellation — again — was to ask you when a work schedule is opened and if we are in a position to reach a public employment pact for this new mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u276	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Close it, Mr. Conseiler of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u277	Thank you again, Mr. President. I'll center my response on some of the issues that have been raised by you. Again, with regard to certain concepts that have been introduced as stability in public employment, data from the Ministry of Business, as I said a moment ago. The Boards in 2008 had a staffing level of 16,091; in 2016, of 16,025, comparable periods. You know there's information twice a year, it's good that we all agree on comparing the same periods. Difference: -0.4%. The most bureaucratic part of administration, teaching and health—and if you want to, I also give you the data separately from health—: 68,197 versus 68,237; an increase of 0.1%. Justice: 2.570, 2.566; difference, 0.5%. Total: 0.05 % difference. Where, therefore, is the impact on the level of troops here? In the mix, therefore, what are the levels of troops, when you, who know about the data, also know that this 0.05% difference in Galician Union is a difference that in the local administration was -19.1%, and in the central government of the state, -5.8%. What are we being accused of, if we're practically talking about a difference of 40 troops with different components? That is the fact that, indeed, basic services in the Autonomous Community of Galicia have been fully guaranteed, which, as you well know, has not happened in many of the autonomous communities, some of them very significant, governed by their party. So the data that they are is clear. One more question is always introduced when it comes to the number of troops and when it comes to the rate of temporality. This Government has always exhausted, within the legal possibilities, basic regulations, the maximum rate of replacement. In fact, there is an increase to the present day of the rate of timing, but not the number of troops. This government has always exhausted — as I say — the maximum, the maximum, the rest rate. And this government has made the position that we are beginning to unlock the replenishment rate for the set of autonomous communities, especially for the autonomous communities fulfilling as is the case with Galicia. So in that kind of election, we believe deeply in structurality, in stable work, at least as much as any of you do. That's why we always exhaust the capacity they put in our hands. And where we're not there, we're still trying to push for these criteria to be changed, which we believe today are totally out of date, especially since the last quarter of 2014. So we did it in 2015, in an accelerated way, and so we did it in 2016. We will therefore continue on this issue. As I told you before, we have no original sin, no type, is that we believe in negotiation, because we recognize that there are some interlocutors who defend certain legitimate interests as ours — say unions — but what you can't ask me, or anyone else with sesera, is that negotiation means always saying yes to those postulates who transfer us. We are the bigger enough, both the unions and the administration, in this autonomous case, for the instrument, which is negotiation, reaching agreements, which is the end, if any, never impossible. So I'm going to repeat the pay issue again. On the subject of wages, which we find ourselves again, do not mix, please, the concept of effort, which we recognize — as the whole Greek society has done in these years of crisis —, let us go our recognition in the future, because what is clear is that the number of personnel has not come down in medium terms on any of the fundamental issues; wages, yes, they have come down, but we have fully recovered them. By the way, it is also good to say in this House that, as far as the central government is concerned — as far as I am concerned — is concerned by Zapatero, this will remain in his conscience and in his group, at the moment he talks about the cuts of the PP and not those of the Zapatero era, which remain forever — there are autonomous communities at this time that have not yet recovered beyond 2012, and this autonomous community has already recovered it, in principle in 2015, and we are finished in 2016. Tell yourself everything, please. Public employees, if we all have something, we know very well how to distinguish black about white. We're sufficiently literate to see who's telling the truth, no matter how crazy it is, and so we're accompanied by general decision-making, which we're very grateful for, and we're always going to do. So we never left the negotiation, and at this moment I was already telling you, as today morning, that it was not possible to reach an agreement, for a very specific matter, on something that I would also like to highlight from this gallery as is the Social Services Consortium. Because this government — as I told you — that it has no original sin, it turns out that it is able to reach a beginning of agreement — in which there is very little, I hope, to finish — with the rest of the unions for something...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u278	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u279	...that was born in the Bipartite -- it seems to me that it wasn't on the PSOE pole, that it was on the BNG pole -- like the Consortium -- what you can't bring here, to this House, are work grants that about the same categories are about 20% below, and we're the ones who are going to fix it now that we have enough resources. It's good to teach when in some way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u280	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u281	...if it's actually producing, and they're not contrasting. Therefore, permanent negotiation. We will continue to deepen in this effort with which we all succeed in bringing the Autonomous Community forward, and for that we will always be found by the unions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u282	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u283	I hope some of the parties in this House can do that too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u284	Thank you. La Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the difficulties of families for the payment of the receipt of light
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u285	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u286	Good afternoon, everyone. Today the Galician Nationalist Block brings to this House an inquiry about electricity. The truth is that we could begin our intervention by referring to Mr. Fernandez de Mesa, or we could begin to intervene by talking about the still incomprehensible movements of the electric ticket, or we could regret again that the People's Party renounced to appear this morning about the electricity cuts that until yesterday were still suffering many Greeks and Greeks. We could do all that because you've been bragging all week that in less than a hundred days of government they've brought some budgets here. That's right. But also, in these 100 days of government, we've seen so many improprieties, so many, related to electricity that the truth is that the opposition would take as long as the advisors and advisors have when they come to expose us their master lines. However, I really wanted to begin, on behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block, by blessing the neighborhood and the Town Hall of Lalin by bringing us, at least in these early days of February 2017, good news, and is that the neighborhood has won the battle in the defense of Catasos and its millennial friga against the Fenosa Union. [[Applause]] Back to the interrogation, I'll focus on three points, three great reasons, for which — the trial of the Nationalist Block in Wales — the Union must intervene and negotiate with the State as regards the price of electricity. First, because we have a tremendously difficult economic context. Secondly, because we suffer abusive prices with regard to electricity. And thirdly, because not only are we taking advantage of the fact that we are a power producer of electricity, but we are at risk of, above all, paying more for it, as I shall explain later. First of all, I was commenting that we are in a very difficult economic context; that's how it is, despite the buying reading made by the German Government. For the majority of society in this country, there is no economic recovery, but the well-consolidation of unemployment, the phenomenon of poor workers and workers. So, as long as the price of life rises, not only the light that occupies us, but also the fuels, but also the butane, the purchase -- as the press reminded us today -- the IBI, and so on, as long as all that happens, there is not a sufficient raise either of wages, nor of the hours of recruitment, nor of pensions. In short, this is the reality of our country, a tremendously difficult reality for many families where there is a serious problem with poverty, particularly with regard to electricity and other goods that we believe are fundamental to developing life with dignity. In the case of electricity, this is compounded by the fact that we have an entirely complicit government with a model of colonial power exploitation and distribution, where Galicia, as we have stated since nationalism, does not occupy its proper place, but quite the opposite. This test is what we have and which we have seen in particular these days, in which we have abusive prices and at the same time a service that we can call bad. So we see how while the electricity generators had already entered at the end of January up to EUR 1 billion, 131% more than the previous year, we had to see how consumers suffered the January tariff, and even Mr Nadal — the Minister of Central Government — had to recognize that during this year we could see a rise in our electricity bill from a global of up to 100 euros, on a price escalation before we again see excuses. First, for a few years, the excuse was the tariff deficit — which is an absolute fallacy — and now is the climate. I suppose, after the rains this weekend, the bill will come back to us. But, jokes aside, there's a key issue where the state doesn't want to come in, and we understand that the Union must press for itself to come in, which is that we're paying an absolutely shot tax as far as our electric bill is concerned. We have, on the one hand, a special electricity tax, with 5.11%, which ultimately applies to all the concepts of the electric receipt, with the exception of the meter rental, and, above all, we have another tax, we have that electricity is at the highest level in the IVE, at 21%. The International Energy Agency, the IEA, neither the BNG nor any separatist union, nor anyone manipulated by us, has conducted a study of 21 countries in the European Union which places the Spanish State precisely three points above the average in relation to this type of goods tax that we believe are absolutely necessary. It is important to remember in this context that it was the People's Party of Rajoy who pushed the tax on the value of electricity, which began to apply since 2013. In short, an absolutely abusive taxation, which earns an energy oligopolie that also abuses the Greeks and the Greeks and our territory. So, what's the big deal in this context? Well, then, even above all, he doesn't do a minimum with our country, and we've seen him these days. I will not do as the People's Party did when it was opposition and Mr. Rueda and Mr. Black were walking around lamenting the woes of the Bipartite, though Mr. Feijóo had used it again this morning. But if there are certain issues that, although the opposition is not using them in this way, we must put them on the table, and we will demand that they be properly monitored, because these days seem to indicate that if there are deficiencies in the power grid infrastructure and other worrying elements, such as the maintenance work of the electricity lines. We are particularly concerned and concerned about whether Fenosa is complying with all the guidelines on forest fire prevention, and also the delayed and insufficient operational operation of the power distribution companies that have resulted in cuts of up to five days, which we believe is too long, and that, of course, if that happened in other latitudes we are convinced and convinced that the alarms would have skipped a lot more and that the world would have paralysed to find a solution. I wonder if there were two, three, four, five days in Madrid if the reactions were the same; because already for canceling a football game you almost have to intervene in NATO. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, finally, by going to the third point, which we want to point out as fundamental, we said before, that we are a surplus country as regards the production of electricity, we have already put initiatives in this direction on the table, but, of course, what we think, is the absolute culmination that if we do not benefit from that condition, we are now in a position to be recorded, still above. So, if we're already concerned about all the taxation around the electricity tariff, because we're concerned about the consequences that the wind cannon might have — since the President of the Board so much boasted in his question in the morning — could have an impact on the bill of the Greeks and the Greeks, as the Spanish state is pressing. Then, from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we have to tell you, Mr. Conde, that if of course you are going to oppose that, then you will also have an ally in the Galego Nationalist Block, because it would seem to us already the top of the hives and the top of the abuses. Because, as I said, electricity is a basic asset for us, and that's why we understand that Galician Union has to intervene and it has to confront the state to get electricity down. It makes no sense — it was also said in my speech — that we have to pay these consequences, and also, we have particular concern from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego this week, a week in which, above all these issues that we are seeing as referring to electricity, we have another issue that also has to do with hydroelectric power stations, which also has to do with our natural heritage, and that we see with particular concern that — it contains information appearing in the press, information appearing in the exchanges of the stock exchange or in expansion — there is evidence of information from this Ferro-Atlantic Business Committee — which is still waiting for you to receive them again — that buyers — ladies and women who intend to buy these plants — have already visited these facilities and say, too, that they have extra-official information that they have already spoken to you. It's a pity the People's Party today didn't want, for mere formalism, to adopt an institutional statement of support for these workers and workers. So, because we're talking about electricity, because we're talking about how we have to take advantage of all the potentials of our country, because we hope, too, that we can confirm in your intervention, Mr. Conde, that the workers and workers of Ferroatlantica have absolutely nothing to worry about, because it won't be speculated with our plants of the river Xallas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u287	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Presas, the truth is, I have to recognize your ability to speak of everything and not realize anything. Because it's been a ten-minute walk through the electrical system, the economic system, the labour market, but concretely, Mrs Presas, it's unfortunately not done anything. [[Murmurs.]] For example, I could talk about the macroeconomic context, since I wanted to talk about the economic situation in Galicia, that is, even today, the data of the industrial production index, which grows by 4.1 in Galicia compared to 1.6 in Spain. I could talk about the growth in exports, the growth in GDP or the fall of 10% of unemployment. But no, you want to talk about everything and do nothing. I'm going to focus, if you like, on the interpellation you make me and, logically, give you an answer to your worries. I regret that the Galego Nationalist Block continues with the burning of the Greek tariff, I greatly regret it because I think that to convince you we have to explain, and to explain, at least with a certain rigor. Look, Your Honor, in any project you want to bring to this House what you have to do — in my opinion — is prove that it is viable, that it is sustainable and that it is profitable, and not to speak in general terms. And all of this has to prove, too, not on the hypothesis, but on the basis of the reality we have to face. In short, Your Honor, you have to prove that what you brought here is not a chimera, and that, Your Honor, has to prove it to you. And the truth is, beyond the empty words of content, we don't know at this time, after all the interventions that the Galician Nationalist Block had, which are the legal foundations and the economic foundations on which you are based to defend the Greek electric tariff, we don't know them. I'd appreciate it if you'd given it to me. But I think you wouldn't bet on any kind of project if you'd first been shown that it's actually profitable. And I am convinced that in the popular legislative initiative on energy poverty you will be able to explain — and you will be able to explain to the Greeks — how they calculate that 30% reduction in the receipt of light. It'll be very interesting to know those calculations. And as I told Mr. Sánchez, it would also be good for them to explain, in particular, who is going to pay for transport and distribution networks so that all the Greeks and the Greeks, and their businesses, can access electricity. And it would be good to know, Mrs Pontón, that you want to intervene in the debate, as they want to ensure electricity supply when the electricity produced in Galicia is not enough. Because you want to close Reganosa, they're against different thermal power stations. In short, it would also be good to know how they want to explain that guarantee of supply to the Greeks. Even if I put myself in a situation of hypothesis, as you want to bring to this House, it would also be very interesting to know, in that proposal that you make of energy brexit, — which is a new initiative that you seem to want to bring here — if it really does not work, which, of course, for now, has brought to this House economic or legal basis, if you really intend to nationalize electricity, if you intend to raise taxes or, at least, what you have to do is pay more for the receipt of light. [[Murmurs.]] I believe that this is a complex debate, but I also believe that there should be three guiding principles in this debate to mark at least that debate: clarity, fairness and prudence. The first one, clarity. I don't think I should confuse or try to confuse the Greeks. I think you should know that we, the Spaniards all, as well as the Greeks, arrive at our receipt so that electricity costs the same everywhere in the country. And we defend that. And we defend it for solidarity, not for centrality. And this also benefits, as you know very well, the Greeks, because here the costs of electricity transmission networks are more expensive, you know perfectly well, and you know that -- also because of the weather, climate and population dispersal -- they also pay all Spaniards and not just the Greeks. And you should say that. So try not to confuse the debate. Secondly, I think it should also be fair and not hide that Galicia has concrete benefits as an electric power producer. I'm saying this because you should know, but I'm moving you, the many investments that are being made by electricity in the autonomous community, and which also develop a tractor effect on many Greek companies. You should know that the energy sector, as a whole, gives 30,000 direct and indirect jobs. And I'm surprised now that you're trying to transfer high taxation centred on the wind canon. You should know that the wind cannon also has benefits for our autonomous community, just like the hydraulic cannon and the echotax. If you want to put yourself in the forefront of the wind sector so that this government will eliminate the wind cannon, then it won't find us. And I should also know that electricity actually pays municipal taxes, such as VAT, for the various electrical installations, and if I had talked to the mayor of the Bridges or the mayor of Walls, they would probably transfer to him the important revenues that this brings to their benefit. So I think it should be fair, and if you want to talk about benefits, logically you have to focus the debate. And it would be prudent, Your Honor, it would be prudent, because if you talk to me about a alleged tariff deficit, which is what you're talking about, you know that deficit is combined with the difference between income and expenditure. And so I'm transferring this exercise of prudence to you, because otherwise you should transfer or explain the responsibility of the Nationalist Block in Wales when you supported the payment of renewables premiums in 2008, 2009 and 2010, when you knew that they were ten times more expensive than what marked the market. Just as I should explain why the Galician Nationalist Block also supported the granting of EUR 3,000 million to electricity by not claiming the cost of transition to competition. I, Your Honor, with all you know about the German electric system, I don't know how they didn't fall in these circumstances linked to the tariff deficit. I'm surprised. In any case, if I transfer that exercise of prudence to you. Finally, I believe that, Your Honor, if you want to bring about a rigorous debate, you have to be consistent, you have to speak with all the elements... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, I'm not here to give lessons, I, if you want to intervene in the debate, what I'm trying is that you explain what they say. To come here to talk about everything and not to realise anything, it is not — at least from the point of view of the parliamentary debate — very coherent. In any case, the Greek Government shares concern about the increase in the price of light, as it cannot be otherwise; logically, it is an increase that is affecting most consumers and also the companies themselves. We also know that it corresponds to an episode of tip, that this episode of tip if you're correcting. Today the average price of megawatt/hour in the wholesale market is 40% lower than last January 25. They also know that wind production and hydraulic production is growing, and therefore that trend is decreasing. And they also know the situations that are happening in other countries, such as France, and, in this case, the recovery of the different facilities that have been stopped by the security review. Even so, this government won't logically deny that the average price of light in the wholesaler market is much more expensive than in previous years, you have to keep working and that means acting; the government is doing it, the fees are frozen for 2017, which means that 60% of the electricity bill won't see their cost increased. The Government has also asked the National Competition Market Commission to investigate and analyze the market to effectively identify whether, for example, there has been some kind of anti-competitive behaviour on the gas market. And we, for our part, in Galicia also act and we also take measures, not only to vigorously defend the Greek consumers when electrical abuse takes place, and there are these 2,400 electric sanctioning files — which have required 24 million euros of electric sanctions — but also we are also promoting energy saving and efficiency, we are also contributing measures in the social ticket agenda. Finally, we are acting, the central government is acting, and we will of course remain proactive, seeking concrete solutions for the price of light to be reasonable and therefore neither consumers nor companies have to take over the price of light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u289	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u290	Excuse me, Mr. Conde, I was so offended with Mr. Sánchez because he hadn't talked about the electrical system, that I had to talk about the electrical system to make up for it, but I see he doesn't like it either. So, I take it to congratulate Mr. Losada, who predicted that the main argument would be that we have no rigour, as always. Well, we have no rigour, indeed, from the Galician Nationalist Block or anyone from the opposition, and we know nothing of the parliamentary procedures, but I remind you, with all modesty, that the proposals usually go in non-law propositions and that the interpellations are that, interpelerations and questions, and that was well written in our document, and I myself have the verbale. In any case, if we have concrete proposals on the table. In fact, we are so generous that we have proposals on the concrete table for this that they were not the Greek electric tariff to seek a consensus, for example to urge the central government to eliminate that special electricity tax, or, for example, to propose a 21% VAT discount, which we consider to be absolutely excessive by 4%. Because besides, as I said in my exhibition, in our case, it's like we're actually paying more than 26% of VAT. But unfortunately, we already suppose you're not going to lend yourself to that mechanism that could easily undermine our electricity bill. Mr. Christmas has already been released in the press saying that there would be no measure on the part of the Government to disrupt the light, that after he went out saying that with a magic bar he would automatically regulate the gas market and thus promote a super-lower of electricity, which was also very rigorous and very illustrative. Because of course, they're not going to do that because when the light goes up the government wins, because it wins in collection, it's estimated that they'll be raised to over 294 million euros. And that, by putting a little bit of figures to compare with, is more than the cost of the social bond until now, of the social bond as it was conceived up to this moment. Well, by going to play some of the issues you've touched on, as to the famous single rate, well, the Spanish State has already had different rates to the one, before, and Law 24/2013 itself, of the electric sector, opens the door to different rates according to the territories. In any case, we will reiterate our proposal in an elaborate way, don't worry, we will have enough time to debate specifically about the Greek electric tariff, but our inquiry is about what you've planned to do to the Greek Government to promote a deterioration of light for the Greeks and the Greeks. Home!, of course, if they come here today and tell us that they're going to implement the Welsh electric tariff, because we would agree very much, but our limited intellectual capacity already made us realize that you wouldn't do that, unfortunately. Another question that I thought you were asking is the subject of dispersal, an argument that also uses Fenosa and that also uses Mr. Lago Peñas, who will advise them about the financing model, and I'm a little concerned about that argument, because that excuse is now for all the slowdowns on electricity distribution and the difficulty in time arrangements, but we have it right now, at least the population stays in rural and there's less that need. On the other hand, in order to put on the swings or for other kinds of energy installations, there's never a difficulty in spelling in our country. When it comes to getting that benefit, there's never a difficulty, but when it comes to providing a service, it's always a difficulty. So, of course, we're not going to give up that Galicia continues to defend a maximum position on the electricity issue. Of course, we think that if we have to control production and distribution from here and change the model of relationship we have with the state, and that is done with political decisions. In fact, even Mr. Nadal, in an interview that was going on in the press, spoke of the fact that pricing ultimately corresponded to political decisions. Well, a little bit of that deep-rooted philosophy, there'll be some point where you can understand what we want with the Greek electric tariff. I'm running out of time, I want to get into the problem of the tariff deficit, but it doesn't give me time. Just add that to be so solvents, unfortunately he didn't take part in his intervention to clarify anything about the issue of Ferroatlantics, a pity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Presas. I understand, perfectly, that you continue in that political and economic myopia to defend a nationalism that wants to separate us, that wants to separate us politically, that wants to separate us economically, but look, the Greeks do not want to be on the edge of the European Union, they do not want to be on the edge of Spain, and what you propose about the Greek electric tariff, about setting prices on the part of public intervention or the payment of the electricity debt on the part of children and grandchildren — which is what you want to move here — because that is not true of Spain or the European Union. If you really wanted to talk about how to reduce the price of light, you would probably introduce elements that are against, precisely, their ideological concept from an economic point of view, because you would probably have to talk about electrical and gas connections with Europe. I understand that for you your economic vision ends at the border with Galicia, but if you wanted to talk seriously about how to lower the price of light, surely all economists who had transferred knowledge about it would talk about electrical and gas interconnections with the rest of Europe. Because there, Your Honor, is where the capacity that Spain has and Galicia has to actually reduce the energy price, that is what most political forces in Galicia support, most political forces in Spain and, of course, in the rest of Europe. And the only exception is, logically, extremist options, populist options that we, logically, don't defend. But, ladies and gentlemen, if you tell me that's what the Government is doing, I of course move it that's what the Government is doing here at the Galician Union, and I've already transferred it to my first intervention. The first thing we're defending is consumer rights, and that's why we're monitoring electrical behavior on time. And since 2009, remember the data, I've already transferred it to Mr. Sánchez, we've opened about 2,400 files, with sanctions of 24 million euros, to the electricians. That, I think, is not precisely the conceivance, it could be that the Bipartite had imposed sanctions for a total of 90,000 euros in four years. That, perhaps, is closer to its concept of conviviality; ours, of course, is not so, and you should know that the Galician Consumer Institute has processed 20,000 claims and that about 80% of these claims have already been resolved favourably to customers. In addition, we continue to work to reduce the price of energy in Galicia, and through the various energy saving and efficiency initiatives — which is our competition, and we have exercised it as such — we have already benefited 7,000 families in the last two years. We do and develop initiatives linked to the electric ticket and measures to avoid supply cuts, although in their written interpellation -- because, of course, one thing here is what they put in writing and another what they come to talk about here -- this would actually have to be central in different aspects. They were talking to me about energy support for self-employed people, which you collected in your written interpellation. And of course we are supporting the autonomous ones, also with savings measures and energy efficiency, not only through biomass, but also through an energy efficiency order in industry and services that has mobilised EUR 60 million in 2016, and also supporting renewable energy installations, particularly in important sectors for the Greek economy, such as the agri-food sector. So this government will continue to defend energy saving and efficiency, it will continue to defend, logically, an electrical system that focuses on territorial solidarity, and, of course, we do not want Galicia to stand aside, we do not want political vision at any time to go against Galicia's economic interests. You're setting this legislation as bad agreements for Galicia, bad agreements in the financing system and bad agreements in the energy system. I regret that your economic myopia may go against Galicia's general interests. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u293	Thank you, Counselor. We now move on to the seventh item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions from the Government. You know we have to be stricter here with time. Question from Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block on the assessment of the Greek Government regarding the measures waged by the Central Government in relation to the situation of people affected by the commercialization of mortgage loans with the inclusion of ground clauses
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u294	Whenever You Like
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u295	Hello again, Mr. Conde. I already tell you that every day I want to separate myself from some more ways of acting in some states. Finally, the question that we are bringing today from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group has to do with bank abuse, with those banking abuses that we have been experiencing, above all, following the outbreak of the crisis, which have revealed a very questionable economic management of funds and a very questionable treatment with users. Unfortunately, however, the response received from the Spanish State, and also from the United States, from our parliamentary group, we regret that we have indeed to qualify for that word that you do not like so much. We believe that rather than speeding up and proper supervision from the public administration, there has been more opacity and a policy of millionaire injections, as the Court of Auditors and other entities have already criticized. In fact, in December we have recently known the judgment referred to in the ground clauses, which can affect more than 200,000 people in our country, and we understand that the measures being taken from the state framework are a new hand held by the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Citizens' Party towards the bank again, because we understand that in any case what should be determined are measures to ensure compliance by the financial entities with these judicial resolutions and thus return the money unduly charged. We understand that what is on the table is a straw decree and that the Board has to take its consumption powers to the extreme in order to ensure greater control of what these procedures are and that these processes must require improvements to the state. To quote briefly, because time is short, this decree does not take urgent measures to speed up the settlement of the warning, which we believe should go through a return of office of these unduly appropriate amounts, and in addition to something that is serious for us, which despite being the bank that committed illegality, it is the financial entities that enable the claim system. For us this is absurd, it is absurd that there is no control element that controls how these returns are, whether really customers and customers are being treated correctly or not, etc. For example, this decree does not incorporate a minimum definition with objective parameters of what is an abusive floor clause and what is not. And, as I say, the measures are going to be applied under the bank's decision, not having a guarantee of arbitration, which we understand is that if that was the right way to get out of the preferences, arbitration is something...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u297	...objective arbitration is something lacking in this decree. That's why we ask what is the valuation of the Government of Greece about which the contested measures favour the interests of the bank above the interests of the users.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u298	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u299	All right, thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Presas, the truth is that listening to her again is a little discouraging this dialogue with the current BNG, because it really all sees it from the negative point of view. Logically, you can transfer the qualifications you consider appropriate, but we certainly appreciate the efforts the Central Government has made to enable an extrajudicial complaint mechanism, because it is a mechanism that is effectively monitoring the interests of consumers. The curious thing is that this mechanism was validated at the Congress of Deputies with the only rejection throughout Spain of you, Podemos, En Marea, de Esquerra Republicana, de Compromis, de Convergence and de Bildu. We therefore know who the Galician Nationalist Block is with. We are, logically, with the defence of general interests, and in this case with the defence of consumers. [[Interruptions.]] You know perfectly well that this mechanism solves in a simple, fast and free way the consumer claim, you know who they're going to say voluntarily if they want to use this extrajudicial mechanism, you know perfectly that the financial entity has a logical obligation to transfer a proposal, and you know that within three months it has to respond. They do not confuse, they know perfectly well that the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition lacks the powers to declare the abusive nature of a ground clause, they know it perfectly well. And they know perfectly well that there are judgments in the litigation-administrative judgment establishing the nullity of sanctions imposed, for example, by the Principality of Asturias for the inclusion of these clauses. They therefore do not try to deceive and derive from powers which the Autonomous Community does not have and which have already been brought up in courts. So, Your Honor, I believe that this mechanism does not harm the people affected. On the contrary, he maintains judicial custody, penalizes the financial institution, his conduct. And to me what I would like to know, Your Honor, is what it seems inappropriate for consumers to have a quick and agile response to solve that situation in the case of abusive floor clauses. So, Your Honor, we are in general interest, we are with most of Parliament at national level, and logically we will watch from the Galician Consumer Institute that this development of the extrajudicial mechanism is developing, always defending the interests of consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u300	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Presas's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u301	Yes, indeed, Mr. Conde. Home!, with some group, like with Podemos, because you know we have our frictions sometimes, but, jokes aside, we are on the side of all political organizations, Welsh or not, that at some point have been positioned against bank abuse. And one day when the big Spanish state parties take a step in that direction, we'll welcome them. Look, the abuse has already sentenced him and declared Europe, the abuse is already judged. We simply have to provide coverage for the people affected, and strict coverage. We're actually asking ourselves, if arbitration, objective arbitration, worked and existed for the preferences, why doesn't it apply to this case? Why not now? Because, with the decree on the table, there is no such guarantee of arbitration. There's a generic referral, but it's neither enabled nor created nor agreed with communities that have exclusive competences in the field of real implementation of mediation services. We very much appreciate the work that the Galego Consumer Institute always does for consumers in this and other aspects, but we consider that more ambitious is needed and that we have to go to a broader framework. We need to monitor issues such as, for example, that it is the bank itself that proposes the agreements and that it manages all that, and that it somehow targets and controls that there is no new abuse in that exchange of views between the user and the bank. Because, moreover, there is another dangerous question on the table: that we are no longer talking only about the return in cash, but about the placing of new products — to know with what control criteria — about users, such as they have been reporting as many associations of affected people as some workers' and bank workers' unions. And you were also talking about the autonomy, and we could talk about the blouse, the non-blouse, which gives for the autonomy and NGOs, for example, this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u302	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Presas, I am not surprised — but in a positive way, in this case in a positive way — because they are now effectively transferring the good work that has been carried out by the Galician Institute of Consumers and Competition in the case of the preferences. But, Your Honor, I'm going to give you some memory, because when the Galician Union was pioneering to develop precisely this solution for the people affected by the preferences, the BNG was against. Where was BNG when we considered here in this House the solution of arbitration for the preferences? Therefore, Your Honor, do not cease to surprise me, and above all, it proves once again that you are not for the sake of it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I think that there, honestly, doesn't win the political debate or win the Greeks. I sincerely am greatly surprised at the roundabout with which they are used to expressing themselves in this House to defeat any initiative that the Central Government does or that makes this Unity of Galicia. But I would have a little prudence, and would have a little prudence above all to see how it develops. And there will be the Galego Institute of Consumers to verify that, in fact, the development of this extrajudicial mechanism takes place with complete assurance. There's a tracking and controlling body. It will be ensured that entities comply with their reporting obligations. They know that there will be a six-monthly report, which can logically propose what measures are deemed necessary to promote a proper application. And I insist that I would like you to move in this House where the people affected are affected. I'd like them to come true. Because we all know that judicial custody, in case there is no agreement, remains open. You know it perfectly well. And he knows that the courts will also penalize the financial institutions, because that's how he collects the royal decree, if his conduct was inappropriate. You know that the Government is going to guarantee that body for monitoring and evaluating claims. And he also knows — but he didn't do that — that the income tax of physical persons is also reformed to ensure precisely fiscal neutrality if there is a refund of amounts wrongly charged by ground clauses. Finally, Mr President, there is a mechanism that guarantees the rights of consumers, which guarantees the application of the European Union Court of Justice judgment. And you, and some occasional exceptions in Spain, are just on the not for the not. And so, Your Honor, the problems of the Greek citizens are not solved. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u304	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. In Marea, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece for the extension, up to 12 months, of the eligible recruitment period in grants to local authorities for the temporary recruitment of persons in a situation or risk of social exclusion perceptible to Risga
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u305	You have the floor to Mrs Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u306	Good afternoon, Mr. Conde, I promise you today it's not obsession with you. What's happening is that we're dealing with the opposition to make it aware of different social issues. And we do so because the crisis has consolidated in Galicia a model that has deepened inequality and social exclusion, increased levels and the duration of unemployment, increased job insecurity and reduced household income. The rate of risk of poverty and exclusion reached 26 per cent in 2015 and the percentage of people in severe material exclusion, to 4.2 per cent, having increased during the crisis, leading us to 114,000 people suffering from poor resources. And at this time, in the face of this incipient macroeconomic recovery, in the face of this increase in business profits and the increase in great fortunes, what happens is the reality of energy poverty — Mr Sánchez has told you to reach 15.4% of the population of Greece — that of the figures of workers and, above all, of poor workers, who are realities that will unfortunately consolidate themselves in our country, at least as long as you rule. In view of this, we also have the popular classes to consent to those awards. I already pointed out to you yesterday Mr. Torrido that because of that 5% of the population in Greece stopped taking any medicine. We have to suffer the cuts of light even though the power companies benefit from our country, of that spole that is a robbery. And we don't have to withdraw anything, I think Anton Sánchez did well in not withdrawing anything, because it's not an insult, it's a definition to say that this country is polished by the electricians, and that his Government and convivent and collaborator. [[Applause]] But finally, I'm going to go to the point, that I don't have time and they're going to tell me, like Mrs. Presas, that I'm not specific. Among people who have serious problems accessing these basic supplies, such as energy, are precisely those who perceive Risk, that income that does not guarantee material subsistence, people behind which are in many cases personal stories of accumulation of years of unemployment. The Employment and Industry Council has a line of grants directed to local entities for temporary recruitment of these people. But for this type of contract, regardless of its duration, a maximum of seven months, a maximum of 75% of the working day, must be linked to the realization of works or services of general interest. But, finally, it's a line of help that doesn't go to the root of the problem. And what happens is that in many cases, when these people finish the contract, they don't have the right to the contribution benefit from that history of accumulating years of unemployment. So it's not useful to finish -- and I quote the words of the Council itself -- with the chronicling of exclusion, to provide for active inclusion. Anyway, it's not a program that stops that chronicle of poverty. So, Counselor, we moved this urgent question to you to find out the plans of your board about these grants for 2017, so the municipalities can have a forecast. And we asked him specifically whether he was going to change this order from one month to a one-year contract to guarantee at least one contribution benefit for unemployment, regardless of the previous situation of the person; and, however, knowing that this is a partial measure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u307	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Vázquez, I agree with you that it is necessary for the Government to do everything possible to facilitate the inclusion of people who need it most. We fully agree with the diagnosis — I have transferred it in this House — especially in those most vulnerable cases, such as long-term unemployed people or also people who perceive the risk — that, in addition, in a very high percentage of the two elements, are perceived by the risk and are long-term unemployed. That's why in 2014 Junta launched a specific program for the first time to help put these people into work. We understand that the most important thing we can move to people who were risk-perceptors was to provide them with an opportunity to gain practical experience through recruitment, in this case by the municipalities, which is the help that has been put in place. Now there are already more than 2,500 people who benefit from the Risk that took part in this program; so I think we're already talking about a positive data. Because we're opening up opportunities for these people to find a future job through their work placement. Besides, many of them are older than 45 and with family burdens, and logically they are especially worrying. You set me up specifically the program for the municipalities. But I would tell you more: this government is taking an additional step and we also have incentives for hiring disadvantaged groups and people at risk of social exclusion, both through businesses and through labour integration companies. And there logically the Risga perceivers also have a chance. What we're going to do is increase the budget share that we had planned in the budgets, and we're going to dedicate this year, on the three lines, 7 million euros, which means a 13% increase over last year. We understand that this is the way — the inclusion of work — and therefore we will try, in collaboration with the municipalities, through the specific Risga program, and through collaboration with companies and labour insertion companies, to give them an opportunity for people who perceive Risk to have a professional experience and can therefore find a future in the labour market, which we understand is the right place and direction to respond to their needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u309	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs Vázquez Verao's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u310	Well, now I'm the one I ask you to do. Because the specific question has not answered me, which is whether this programme is specifically going to increase to less than one year that eligible period. Regardless, we believe this program is a partial measure, and by its words, I deduce that it is satisfied with the results of this program. It seems to us clearly insufficient. But it's just that, in addition, 30% of Risga's perceived people in our country have chronicled their situation. And it seems to us insufficient because we understand, of course, that it is not a good practice to promote the partial recruitment of these people — very partial — by limiting it, in addition, to 75% of the day. What we must do — and we are sure to agree there, but we must agree in practice, in concrete measures, what we need to do is integrated employment promotion programmes, follow-up at work, follow-up, not temporarily contract them, and effective coordination of employment and social policy services. Also from his words I deduce that the Greek Government is not aware of what is happening with these people, that many prefer not to be hired to fall into a temporary contract and then return to that hellish pilgrimage for social services to request alms. Because that's what's happening. On the one hand, they remove skills and resources from the municipalities, the councils make social firefighters—which in a crisis situation increases this need for social care from the municipalities—and on the other hand they have to deal with this bureaucracy of poverty, that bureaucracy of the various aids: the electric ticket we saw before, the small subsidies, this Risk... a bureaucracy that causes these people to sink into their already bad situation, both in their physical and mental health; and on the other hand, to collapse the municipal services. Yes, I know I got off the subject, but it's just that you didn't answer the specific question either, about the city councils having a forecast of what this year's aid order is going to be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u311	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have at no time transferred my satisfaction from the Risga data, at no time. I think I should at least not transfer my money and qualify it. Of course, this government understands that data needs to be improved, both in terms of employment evolution and in terms of risk and long-term unemployed developments. But I logically think that we must also reflect reality. And if we go into reality, you should know that long-term unemployed people, for example, fell by 10.75 % in the last year. And this also affects Risga's perceptions. They're improving affiliations, with an increase of 2.13%. And in this case, I'm going to correct it: recruitment has grown in the last year by 11.5%, indefinite contracts have grown by over 22% and full-time contracts have also increased by over 10%. That's the reality, Mrs Vázquez. In any case, we clearly work — you tell me about the integrated employment and orientation plans — of course we are working with the most disadvantaged groups. And you should know that in the previous legislation — I moved it — 11,000 people with greater difficulty of entering the labour market received guidance from the Public Employment Service in Galicia — a specific data — as well as 1,500 people participated in training and employment workshops. We understand that the help of Risga is working well, let's keep it with the same criteria we had last year, with the same count. And what we're going to do is we're going to increase the weight that social inclusion companies have in the possibility of integrating people with the most difficulty. In total, it's going to be a 7 million euro match, which means a 13% increase, in total, compared to last year. And we will logically continue to work with integrated employment programs, we will continue to work with the workshops, we will continue to work with the guidance services of the Public Employment Service in Galicia, and we will continue to try to give people with more difficulties, particularly in these programs, people who perceive the risk and also, logically, long-term unemployed, because they are the ones who currently need more attention from this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u313	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members from the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the knowledge by the Government of the problems detected in the operation of the sewage treatment station in evidence of Ribeira
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u314	Question by Dolores Toja Suárez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u315	Thank you. Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to greet and show our solidarity with the neighbors and neighbors of Castineiras and Aguira, in view of the worsening quality of life and health as a result of the neglect and lack of transparency of this government. It's an EDAR with a rooting that clearly is not the right one. Storm tanks, located between dwellings in a natural setting of beaches that are already affected during the period of testing by noises, smells, spills of faecal waters, environmental disasters of Costas — such as in the River Listres, bird-eater now, where it is the sea that goes to the river and it is not the river that goes to the sea—... Consequently, we have floods of farms, and the worst thing is that it has become a pond of faecals due to the relief that evacuates assiduously. It ceased to be a bathing area and nature to be a deteriorating medium today. It was a negligible management, because there is an initial project in which urban waste water was separated from the Couso emissary from the industrial waters that would be poured into the Touro emissary. And in addition, in its general feature annex to the project it was established that this condition was necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the installations. But what's the reality? The reality is that such separation did not take place, or that is what is drawn from the report drawn up by Eptisa for the Town Hall of Ribeira, which indicates that the high levels of sulphuric acid are due to the spills of waste industries from a preservative company to the urban waste network. But there are a number of outstanding issues to be resolved, such as that problems persist during the time of change in the landfill zone of the canteen. So it seems reasonable to ask a number of questions about this situation. As they are: are they taking samples in Touro's emissary?, how often are they taken?, what parameters are analyzed?, what results are obtained, in case samples are being taken? Therefore, what actions will be taken to reverse this situation? But especially when, when will these actions be carried out? Because it goes for six months that these neighbors and neighbors are suffering from the consequences of this management, six months of social alarm and multiple complaints from neighbors because of the malfunction. It smells like rotten eggs, but the situation goes beyond a simple smell, it's something more serious. There are high levels and toxicity values; and consequently, a worsening of health problems, a serious deterioration of the vital environment of the neighbors and neighbors of Ribeira. And here we are entering a totally absurd situation in which companies are being punished for dumping — taking into account the patch that was made in Touro — and in which, in addition, we are receiving sanctions from the European Union for the poor state of our rivers. Seeing all this and seeing that six months ago I have no answers, we ask this question: do you have knowledge of the Galician Union of all these problems with the EDAR of Ribeira and its network of collectors over 13 kilometers? But above all, what concrete measures will it take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u316	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u317	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Toja, first of all, the answer to your question would be this: we have knowledge, indeed. The second thing I would like to see is, of course, to express my understanding of the situation that can directly affect the neighbours of Ribeira, in this case caused by the scents of the operation of a particular debugger. But you can also draw different conclusions from your words and speech, which is what I want to do and, of course, to highlight. And the reality is that the Union promises, the reality is that the Union executes, and the reality is that the Union complies with the Town Hall of Ribeira and even with the Arousa River. Because you come here, somehow, to talk about a problem that wouldn't exist if there wasn't a debugger, obviously. It is difficult to talk about a problem that exists today because there is a government that has actually committed itself, a government that has done, a government that has completed an absolutely necessary infrastructure; and, of course, a government that does not decide on its placement, but does — as it is and what it should be — the technicians, who decide where the technical infrastructures that respond to the sanitation, in this case, of Ribeira. It was this government and not another that invested in the Arousa River 55 million euros since 2009, not 3 million euros, as you spoke in your intervention. And different key actions were made that I want to mention: Ribadumia's EDAR, with 8 million euros; Grove's EDAR, with 6 million euros; Corrubedo's EDAR — which is in the same municipality — with 6.3 million euros; that emissary of what you were talking about, at Bullo's point, with 1.8 million euros; even the roadmap and the stream cleansing plan, with 800,000 euros; and obviously the investment of what you are talking about today, which is 20 million euros, of which the Galician Junta has put in 8 million euros, to have a debugger. So, now, you tell me that, in fact, there are allegations and there are protests that you and I know, and there are. And there are these because the debugger today is in evidence, that is, in proof. And the evidence is precisely to know if things have done well, if things are working. From that point of view, two causes have been seen: firstly, the existence — as you said — of industrial spills on the network without prior treatment; and secondly, another series of incidences typical of the put into operation of this service. Once these smells have been detected, the tracking commission has been activated, which evaluates all the indicators you ask for. And, after the follow-up commission was called, Aquaes made a first phase to accommodate the partial emptying of the new network towards the old one — now all the way back to the old one — and thoroughly clear the whole circuit, the temporary suppression of all the industrial spills you were talking about and maintain surveillance and measurements to check the effectiveness of the measures. In short, they're taking steps to fix it, and today what I'm moved to is that it's fixed. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u318	Thank you, Counselor. Replica shift. Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u319	If today's problems are fixed, I don't know what the neighbors and neighbors of Ribeira are doing here just to complain and show their discomfort at the situation in Ribeira. [[Applause]] The patch they made in Touro is a hamburger, a hamburger! [[Applause]] Look, it's been six months of serious problems, uncontrolled dumping of waste, faecal waters on beaches and rivers, emissions of toxic gases, nausea and unhealthy odors. And three weeks ago they made that patch, which I told you about Touro. And five days ago they went there saying it was a complex work of 13.6 kilometers. That's what they did. As always, we are faced with a cold government, with a lack of humanity, which does not take people into account and which governs with that lack of soul and humanity. And the situation that requires is to resolve as soon as possible this environmental and health situation, not to accept and deliver the work until all problems are solved, and, above all, to assume responsibilities. They assume responsibilities in the Union and in the Government of Spain through Aquaes. And when the works are finished, they do a report and, above all, they learn for the future so that this doesn't happen to them again. This is what the Socialist Group claims here and in the Senate. Those affected in Ribeira want to hear concrete answers, which concrete measures will be taken to solve these problems. Don't say they're solved because they're not. Passing through Touro is a horror, it stinks!, said so, clearly. How long are you going to fix? Why did they let six months pass without giving an answer to neighbors and neighbors? Why? And what responsibilities will they assume? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u320	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u321	For since you tell me that the neighbors of Ribeira are here, I would like to address them and not address you — even if you ask the question — to inform them that, indeed, I have some information — that I can go visit you to find the situation in which this Touro station is located — but I have the information of all the spokespersons of the Ribeira Town Hall who visited EDAR — all, including yours, Vilán — who did not express any unpleasant points of interest in the visit to that debugger — no point, including yours, Mrs. Toja; Mr. José Manuel said absolutely nothing. And, of course, I can assure these gentlemen that if the debugger, when it works again, when it's connected correctly to the new network, it's not okay and it doesn't give the results, we won't receive it. Because, obviously, the debugger, gentlemen, is in evidence, and being tested means definitely not finished. So what the Government of Galicia has done is act when committed, act with something that is important not only for the neighbors but for the men and women who live from the sea, which is making an investment of more than 55 million euros in that stream, a very important, seafood and fishermen who live precisely that. We invest in Ribeira in three important actions — not an emissary, in Corrubedo and this debugger — no balladias. And I can assure the neighbors of Ribeira that the work will not be received until the work is functioning in a perfect state. Today, the debugger isn't smelling at all. If they're right, I'll obviously check it out. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because all the political spokespersons, gentlemen, everyone, said I didn't smell. All of them, all of them here, all of them. [[Murmurs.]] And so I'll check it out. And if I don't — I insist — the Galician Union will not receive this work if it doesn't work well. Today's on trial. And I say again that we want to move forward, because we have a firm commitment to heal all our rivers, including that of Arousa, where we will invest more than 7 million euros this year in various actions in the rest of the municipalities: in Rianxo, in Vilagarcia and in Boiro. Another type of action perfectly defined by technicians — not politicians — to respond to the needs of the neighbours, in this case the neighbours of the Arousa River. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u322	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Luca Chao Pérez and two other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the reasons of the Government of Greece not to carry out in non-lethal period the works that are being carried out at CEIP Ramón de la Sagra, da Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u323	You have the word Mrs. Ángeles Cuña, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u324	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u325	Quiet, please! A question will be asked.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u326	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u327	Quiet, please, a question will be asked. [[Murmurs.]] Wait, wait, the advisor, I think, will talk to our guests. Wait, to pose the question, let there be a little silence. They're leaving, not for anything else...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u328	Whenever you want, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u329	All right, thanks. Since the beginning of the works at the Ramón de la Sagra school on November 2, the families affected have been manifesting their discomfort by works that appear not to meet the minimum conditions of safety and health, and that are being affected months after due course, facing adverse conditions. It should be borne in mind that the bidding of the works was published on June 15 and was adjudicated on September 2, despite the fact that the description of the operation in the operational program Feder Galicia 2014-2020 specified the urgent need to perform the works in the summer, before the beginning of the school year 2016-2017. Well, because of the delay, the works are causing deep discomfort and concern among the families, who are raising complaints about various issues: access of materials in trucks by the children's play space, intense noise by works with radials while the children are in the classroom, respiratory problems because of the large amount of dust raised, stored without any control in children's spaces and withdrawal of asbestos simultaneously to the classes, a material that has been shown to be cancer. Families are also repeatedly requesting, by the majority agreement of ANPA, to paralyze the works and to carry out in non-lethal periods. However, ignoring the majority feeling, the works continued, to the point where several families stopped taking their children to classes. The claim is completely logical. I don't know if either of you, having a three-year-old or three-year-old in advance and knowing the risks that this brings, would take the child to school. Why do they do it? Because, while it's manipulating fibrosis, it's the only way they have to guarantee non-exposure, which, even if low, has to be minimized. All right, for all of this, the Parliamentary Group of En Marea asks: how can the Government of Greece explain that the work of withdrawal of asbestos in the academic period, knowing, as we know, that exposure in children is much more dangerous than in adults? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u330	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u331	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Cuña, if there was the slightest doubt or the slightest fear on the part of the Administration — I say not on the part of the politicians, but on the part of the Public Administration — through the safety and health authorities at work, which regulate this millimeter process, do you think that we are as disillusioned as we are to perform works that can harm children's health? I really tell you and anyone who wants to listen to me, that, according to reports issued by a very broad range of public officials, of different public services, it is said, in a more or less textual way, that the launching of this process, with the necessary guarantees, will not generate any kind of problem in children. Because, if there were — I insist — the slightest doubt, if there was virtually total certainty, that the procedure to be carried out was harmful to the children, I would be the first — that I am the father of two small children — who would have to stop. Now, what we cannot have is an absolute mistrust of the whole administrative procedure and of the set of rules and controls that are clearly aimed at minimizing all kinds of risks in this area. And you said a question that's not true, I suppose, perhaps by mistake or ignorance. This work, like many works before, like in other administrations, is done out of school hours. At no time were the works of withdrawal of asbestos — what is known as uralites — with children inside. There are very strict procedures in that act. Look, I'll tell you something. That's what we did, which makes the Galician Union — which is not the first time, that many such works are done — are also done by other administrations; even in the Coruña, the Town Hall made one exactly the same. It was also withdrawn during school and in the afternoons, when there were no children in the school, the fibrous plates of the Maria Barbeito, exactly the same. I understand – as I suppose you understand – that in the Town Hall of Coruña they were sure that this operation would not generate any kind of problem, just as we are. Still, a number of enormous measures have been put in place, because there was a certain social revolt, which we understand, we can understand. And all the measurements that have been made, all of them, give absolutely positive and reassuring data for families. With which I can understand that a work is causing trouble, even in our dwellings, there is always trouble.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u332	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u333	Now, to question a whole administrative procedure... Your Honor, I understand that we must be responsible and we must trust public officials to carry out this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u334	Thank you. Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Cuña's reply. Give a voice to Mrs. Cuña's chair, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u335	Yes, I'd like to believe it, Mr. Roman, but I can't. I can't because there's unanimity in the scientific community, unanimity in saying there's danger. And you don't have any rules. Laws are simply for workers and they don't care for third parties; of course, they don't care for children, who are much more at risk than adults to develop mesotheliomas. What is stated here is denied. There is a statement from the European Community that concludes, he says, that there is epistemological evidence that all forms and sizes of fibers of commercial asbestos are cancerous to humans. You talk about measurements, we talk to the families. The families asked for measurements assuming the costs. The measurements that take place in the afternoon have no good results the next day. The fibers vibrate, and then the truth is, asbestos never stops releasing fibers into the environment. How much more exposure, more paperwork to play in the macabre rifa, which has a big prize, yes, is cancer. And there is a saying from the European Community — which for some reason will be — that asbestos has to be removed from the whole community in the year 30, because more than half a million people are going to be victims of the effects of asbestos. If you want to believe that the regulations guarantee the safety of children... of course, when you're 5 years old, the risk of suffering from exposure to 30 or 50, which is even further apart. In children, alveoli form themselves, yes, in postnatal, but 20% continues to function until adolescence, with which there is much greater risk. The European Community gives very specific guidelines.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u336	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u337	What's going on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u338	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Cuña, we understand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u339	...it's a barbarity, it's an irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u340	You got it. Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u341	Mrs. Cuña, I don't ask you to believe me, I'm not so illustrious, not much less. But I would ask you to create civil servants in the field of safety and health at work, which is both autonomous and state-level. Even European opinions make it clear that asbestos in an inert state is harmless for health. And they say, yes, that if there is a mishandling, if there can be some kind of risk. But that's why there are some very powerful Issga protocols that clearly say how this material should be removed so it doesn't generate any kind of problems. The measurements that have been made, all the measurements that have been made abroad, say it's perfect, that there's no problem. For workers who work with a kind of pin that evaluates the possibility of asbestos, those who are above the uralit, the sheet, manipulating it and pulling it out, they make it perfect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] How's it going, Mrs. Cuña, to get asbestos fiber into the classrooms when there's a plate between the roof and the classrooms, there's a concrete forx, and there's closed windows, and in the air the measurements -- that I didn't, Mrs. Cuña, that make them enabled companies -- say there's no problem? And, I insist, I think we have to be respectful of the very strict, very strict technical work they impose on both the Issga and the Ministry of Health. It's something that's done everywhere. A council ruled by you made it exactly the same; with which, I think, here, I regret... No, no, they did just as we did, at the beginning of the course, the Mary Barbeito, exactly the same: mornings, class; and afternoons, worked to remove the plates, exactly the same. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that's perfectly taxed, there's a procedure that's perfectly taxed. I'm actually sorry to question the work of many public officials in an administrative tradition that is perfectly taxed, perfectly taxed and tremendously controlled. And I'm sorry, too, Mrs. Cuña — and I know you're not — because that sort of little moral double that has to question a change of covers if the PP does so while, if it does it, a council where we rule, it's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u342	Quiet, quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u343	And above all, what I'm sorry about is that there was a problem of living in an educational center. That's what really hurts. An alarmism has been generated which I can understand, because in today's society everything is being questioned. But what a responsible administration cannot do is question the administrative action of many services with a lot of tradition, where we are not politicians — who have tails, teeth and sulphur through their mouths — no, no, no, where there are public officials with very strict procedures, with very strict safety standards and very strict conclusions. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u344	Thank you, thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u345	With which, I'd say, Mrs. Cuña...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u347	...let's do the right things...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u348	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u349	...we don't distrust the administration, and we won't cause problems of living in the centers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u350	Thank you. Question by D Aurelius Alfonso Núñez Centeno and five other Members of the G.P. Popular, about the evolution of flu disease data in winter 2016-2017 in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u351	You have the floor to Mrs. Amigo Díaz of the People's Parliamentary Group
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u352	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, our question is motivated by the high number of flu cases being presented, like every year, on these dates and the social alarm that may occur because of the lack of information from the population. As is usual, every year by these dates there is a significant increase in people affected by the flu. And our community, with a large number of older people, is not alien to this problem. The flu is an infectious disease of viral etiology that affects the nose, throat, lungs, which is transmitted very easily and which in most cases runs with a benign clinical picture. But in older people or with risk factors, it can be complicated, mainly in people with asthma or other previous respiratory problems, concomitant diseases or chronic diseases. People are often confused with flu cold. They're different, although they share some symptoms. Most people suffer from cold several times a year and, on the other hand, they get flu only once in several years. We know and know well that the most preventive measure is the anti-gripal vaccine, which in our community is available to all users who need it at all Sergas health centers. The attention of this disease is basically the responsibility of primary care, either in continuous care consultations, in CAPs, or in family physician consultations; although many people continue to attend hospital emergency services, in many cases with influenza processes that could be resolved and treated in primary care. The treatment of influenza is symptomatic, usually solving the process in a few days, in a week or two. But there is a small percentage of citizenship that needs hospital care because of the severity of its clinical picture, based on its age or the presence of chronic diseases. For example, people over 65 or children under 2 years of age, pregnant women, institutionalized people or anyone with heart, lung, chronic kidney, diabetes or a weakened immune system. This causes in some cases punctual episodes of saturation of emergency services in our hospitals. Since on this date we are observing a remarkable increase in cases recorded in our autonomous community, we would like you to answer this question: What is the evolution of influenza disease data in our autonomous community this winter 2016-2017? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u353	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u354	Good afternoon, Mr. President, Mrs. Friend. Good afternoon to all the lords. As you know, the flu wave has different characteristics each time, so it's necessary to follow up on its evolution on time. The monitoring of seasonal influenza is done through five different systems: the number of weekly calls to 061 influenza and other acute respiratory infections and weekly influenza records declared from primary care, which allow for identifying the time of onset of the wave, knowing its intensity, comparing with the previous storms, knowing the degree of spread of the virus and helping in the prediction of the peak and evaluating the weekly trend — they facilitate information by province and age group—; another is the microbiological surveillance system, involving four community hospitals, which allows to know the influenza virus that predominates in each time and its degree of diffusion; and finally, the system of monitoring income with confirmed influenza, which allows for the knowledge of severity in terms of income, passage to the ICU and even lethality, the impact on the health system and the epidemiological characteristics of severe forms of disease. The fundamental goal is to get a broad view of the behavior of disease and circulating influenza viruses. The flu season this year began on week 40 of 2016, and the start of the wave on this season was, according to the monitoring system, on week 51 of 2016, which ended on 25 of 12 of 2016. At this moment it was announced that, if we followed the expected evolution, the peak would be at the end of January or early February; however, the speed of development of the wave of this season was higher than expected and the peak finally reached in the third week of 2017, with very similar levels of intensity in the second, third and fourth weeks. The intensity of the wave was in the current season greater than in the past, and according to this monitoring system, greater than in the last three seasons. It was also observed that the current season was of greater intensity than the previous season, and it was similar, according to this monitoring system, to the 2014-2015 season, in which the AX3N2 virus circulated mostly. For its part, the confirmed flu income monitoring system has shown, compared to the last seasons, a wave similar to that of last season, although on this occasion of greater intensity. According to the data available to date, the peak would have reached at week 3 of 2017, with a total of 300 cases, compared with the 227 cases declared at the peak week of the previous season. If we compared revenue to the week after the peak, we'd be talking about a 24% increase in income. Since the beginning of the season, 1,504 incomes have been declared with confirmed flu virus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u355	Thank you very much. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u356	...and they needed entry into the ICU at 6.5% of the total.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u357	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Friend's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u358	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your extensive exhibition of details. We see and see again that we have a Greek health system that is prepared to meet the needs of its citizens at all times. The coordination between the primary care service, hospital care service and 061 enables us to know and know, with its records, the evolution of this disease and thus have a broad view of its behavior and give the right responses to a seasonal pathology that has a high impact and that is the cause year after year of a major care demand, causing an increase in the frequency of hospital emergency services. In addition, because of their explanations, we know that the microbiological surveillance system allows you to know the flu virus that predominates in every season and its degree of diffusion. Go ahead with our thanks to all the professionals who work around and in a coordinated manner in the Galician Health Service. Given that in the current flu season, the rate of wave development was higher than expected and the intensity was also in this current season greater than in past times, assuming this a greater number of hospital incomes, with an increase, according to which we were told, significant up to 24%, we would like to respond to what preventive measures have been taken since the German Government to deal with the increase of patients in emergency care services in the face of the recurrence of influenza and pathologies that occur every year at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u359	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Mr. Counsellor's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u360	Yes, Mrs. Friend. The idea, logically, is that since the Galician Health Service, despite the differences that may exist annually — which are, as we have seen, of nuances — we have always prepared a plan of continence for this time of flu. The idea is to control the consequences of infection. Of course, it must be borne in mind that hospital emergency services also assist patients of other non-respiratory pathologies, so, although it is possible to plan the demand for flu waves, entries in emergency services are always subject to other types of actions as well. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that the urgent care of patients leads to the need to have devices that allow the selection of patients based on severity. We have -- what we always say in flu waves and at any other time -- the first level, which is primary care and which is fundamental in our system. It's the system input, but it also solves a very high percentage. We also have the continued attention points, the CAPs, which solve approximately 92%. 93% of the patients who go there. And the other side, the important part, is that we're trying to convince the people that, if we follow these levels of assistance, we're going to be much more effective. But once we get to the emergency service, which logically has the average capacity very, very high, it's very resolute, we have the choice, which is fundamental to classify by gravity and go response not to those who arrive, or that take longer, but to those who are more serious in order to logically attend to those who need it first. They know that about 50% of the patients who arrive at emergency services could also be evaluated in another care system, which sometimes makes it difficult. But anyway, despite that, the answer to the choice is a quick answer. In January 2017, the average time of choice is one minute and peak; that is, we are quick to choose and after sorting and caring according to this type of attention. In addition to the reinforcements we make in the emergency services, in primary care and in the CAP, we also do them in the rest of the hospital services. Because with patients who logically need income, we also need to give a higher response to the level of income. We can say the big numbers of reinforcements we're giving. By categories, in a given period we have about 2,880 reinforcements, of which 340 reinforcements correspond to optional specialists in areas, 1,369 nursing staff, 1,097 nursing assistant care technicians, 66 cells and 8 laboratory technicians. I mean, it's a considerable reinforcement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u361	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u362	...important and with what we think we are responding to what the population needs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u363	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u364	And if we compare with other European systems, or even with other autonomous communities, we believe that the result is very effective and effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u365	Thank you, Counselor. Ms. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the reasons for the delay of the Greek Government in replacing the needles provided by Sergas for insulin administration to patients affected by diabetes
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u366	Good afternoon, Counselor. And good afternoon to the president of the Association of Diabetics of Santiago and the spokesman of SOS Compostela, who accompany us in the rostrum. The Galician Diabetes Federation, its constituent associations, the SOS Compostela Public Health Platform and individual patients, Counsellor, have made multiple complaints requesting that the needles be changed for the insulin administration supplied by Sergas, because they cause damage and pain to the patients who have to use them. They report that hundreds of diabetic people suffer from the effects of low quality of these materials, such as bruises and pain in the injection area, because they have to repeat the attempts to bite, problems associated with the amount or dose they administer, and in many cases the loss of insulin injected by a bad fit of the pen, which means a miscalculation of the administered amount, and this may lead to hyper or hypoglycaemic problems, occlusion problems, psychological problems. There are people — especially children — who have to bite 3 or 4 times a day, with which 3 or 4 times a day they have to endure that skull of stinging with pain. And there are even needles that break into the patient's body. They claim that in the last procurement procedure, 2014 the determining valuation criterion was the economic offer. We know that Sergas is aware of this whole situation, because they've made complaints, complaints, both the affected people and the associations. In Santiago alone, over 400 complaints were filed. They have denounced the situation in the EOXI Administration of Compostela, in the People's Valedora, in the Sergas and in the trial, because, as none of these complaints took effect and Sergas made deaf ears, in September 2016 SOS Compostela filed a complaint in the Compostela courts. The complaint was admitted to the proceedings, and the judgment in Case No. 1 of Santiago subsequently agreed to overcome this cause — it has provisionally agreed — by undertaking Sergas to hold a new tender, to change the criteria for selecting the award to supply the insulin needles, not only for the possible effects, but also for the economic criteria — that these are not the determinants, such as the one at present, and to give more weight to the proof of the product by patients. And, of course, with this commitment, Sergas implicitly accepted the claims of the patients and associations they claimed. Four months after that commitment, Counsellor, we would like to ask you, on behalf of the patients, what is the reason that the Insupen needles have not yet been replaced for insulin administration that a large number of patients have reported that they cause damage, that they have negative effects, and that they are going to replace them, as they have committed themselves, and when they are going to do so. They are very specific questions, Mr. Counselor, and I also expect very specific answers from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u367	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u368	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The first thing that surprises me of this question is to follow the emergency procedure. The truth is that it surprises me because we are talking about something which, as the honourable Member said right now, has been a long time ago. As you all know, diabetes is a very prevalent disease, possibly the most prevalent diseases we have in this society. The supply of insulin needles destined for Sergas' EOXI is carried out through a public tender procedure, as could not be otherwise. And the latter is at the end of 2014, with a two-year duration and a further two-year extension. This is what makes the law, following what public contests are. This competition, as you well know, covers more than 36,000 patients. Nearly 2,000 nursing professionals annually deliver 11,800,000 needles of this type. During the tendering phase, the product was evaluated using a practical test in 28 voluntary insulin dependent patients of all EOXI, in 26 diabetic patients who, in addition, are health personnel and in 12 patients of the Galician Diabetics Association. The four-millimeter pediatric needles, by the way, are excluded from this competition. Only those five to eight millimeters are included. In addition, after the contract, there is a follow-up to the incidences that occur. We're, logically, sensitive. It's a subject, as I say, especially because they're people with chronic illness who need special care and life-for-life treatment, and logically we're looking at the incidences that there may be. And the highlights are that, between October 2014 and December 2015 — fourteen months — there was no incidence presented in any of the EOXIs, with Vigo's exception, where two were presented, which were resolved by changing the needle size. During 2016 there was an incidence in Ferrol, 5 in Ourense and 99 in Santiago's EOXI, all of them registered at the same point — I refer to Santiago. We're talking about 2,000 nurse posts that give these kinds of needles. These incidences are a low percentage; we would like to see that none existed but, of course, within the total number, is low. Moreover, since the Galician Federation of Diabetic Associations, they confirm that the few incidences they had resolved with the change of needles of lower caliber. After the analysis carried out in questions with the educators and diabetics of the Galego Health Service, it was concluded that knowledge and skill in the puncture technique is of the highest importance and therefore the approval and training of patients is necessary. In order to follow up on the possible incidences and improve the use of insulin injection needles, the following measures were adopted: inform the patient; in the event of an incidence, the patient's responsible healthcare professional prepares a report summarizing the cause of the problem; an analysis by the nursing management of all the incidences; and, in cases where the incidence is not a problem of the injection technique, the change of needles to others of lower caliber. Annual education training programming...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u369	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u370	...diabetologics and training of nursing professionals, annual programming of training and follow-up of diabetic patients directed to primary care and hospital care. In this training they participate around 200 professionals each year in medicine and nursing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u371	As for the lady upstairs, finish the answer the guests are there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u372	I'm done. And annual programming of diabetes training for diabetic patients through the Galician School of Health for Citizens. The next moment I'm still giving some data.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u373	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u374	I asked him if he was going... I asked him very specific questions and you didn't want to answer anything at all. What is the reason why you haven't replaced the needles yet, committed to the trial that they were going to change, that they would make a new procedure, that would take into account the opinions of the patients? And it turns out four months after that judicial communication you come here, for now, throwing balloons out. I hope in his reply he can answer me; if he doesn't want me, the people who are in the gallery and those thirty-eight thousand people affected; if they're going to correct or not, if they're going to change the needles, because you have a commitment. I wonder, if you follow up on the incidences, how is it that they may not have been corrected yet? Because, look, with the recognition he has made — at least in front of the trial — they recognize, on the one hand, the irresponsibility of awarding a contest only taking into account economic criteria and not the quality of the materials; and on the other hand, that he does not follow them, because I told him that there are at least four hundred complaints in Compostela alone; that you had to go to the trial because you didn't meet the complaints in the People's Valedor or the people who claimed them. And when it turns out it's a cry, you're inexcusable delays. They are unjustifiable for a number of reasons: firstly, because there is an agreement and there is a judicial auto that records the subject as to the condition to which you fulfill the promise — it seems to me that this is already a matter of weight for them to have done so — and secondly, because it turns out that the People's Party has committed itself at the end of the year 2015 to solve the problem, in the voice of the current health voice and, at the moment, President of the Greek Parliament, to which the problem would be solved without delay. It's been over a year, there's a law firm by means, and you don't seem to want to commit here. I ask you, in respect of this Parliament, for once, to say whether the needles will be changed and when they will do so. If they're going to do it, as they're committed, and when they're going to do it. These are very simple questions, please, Counselor, answer yourself with that same clarity too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u375	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u376	Yes, the truth is, Mrs. Prado, I don't know if you lie or don't know the truth, it's the big difference. The judge's car is here and there's no condition. What the judge's car says is, first, that clearly, they weren't the only economic conditions there was. The economic conditions within a public contest have to be, that's not a health whim, is a whim of state contract regulations; there must be a weight. But the foregoing are the features — as I say — of score and in this case it was done in a manner — in addition, I believe that of the first autonomous communities that did this in a public contest — that had been tested by patients. And it was tested by patients — anonymously, logically — and had to have a minimum score. In fact, two offers were excluded because they didn't get to the least, they didn't have enough quality because the patients said they didn't have enough quality. And only two passed, and within these two, of course, the one who presented the best economic offer was the one who won in the public contest, as in any public contest. And what's paying attention is that, anonymously making this test with patients, there may be discussion. Anyway, we follow the incidences. And what we're telling you is that the incidences are smaller and that, curiously, the incidences are "very large" -- among other things -- within the small amount, in a specific EOXI, at a given point. And yet in the other six EOXI are minimal. This is also something that it's hard for us to know. As I say, of the four companies, two were left out because they didn't have the minimum requirement on patients. And look, what the date car says...—I suppose you will, I don't know how to read, but it usually says what is meant by the judges—is exactly: "Decreing the provisional stay and file of this case with notification of this resolution to the parties and without prejudice to actions that may correspond to the jurisdiction of litigation-administrative". I do not know what the honourable Member refers to as the conditions to be met or not fulfilled. [[Murmurs]] We have to fulfill something very important within a contract, that's what's signed. There is a public contest that is presented to companies that can be presented and there is a selection, a clear selection that can be less objective at other times. It was here that patients, those who had to be treated for the rest of their lives, could give their perception of which is best. And as I say, it came into effect, because two companies didn't pass the cut. And from there we have to follow what is the regulation, there's nothing else, we have to follow it, it's our obligation. And logically, we — in this and in any contest — will continue to keep an eye on it to be fulfilled and the quality of our service to the citizens is as best possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u377	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Marta Rodríguez Arias and five other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the measures taken by the Galician Union to address families subject to a rejection
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u378	Counsellor, the Galician Union is launching a series of measures aimed at guaranteeing people's right to housing, avoiding evictions and mitigating their consequences. These are twelve measures that families can come to who are facing difficulties in accessing a housing or in maintaining their housing and preserving their housing. Within these twelve measures, today we would like to ask you about the Reconduce Programme, a program that was launched in October 2013 to respond to persons and families at risk or in situations of deprivation, with legal and economic advice, and to extend to the defiances also rents and four information offices. So today, we want to know what the balance of the Galician board of this program is, from its approval to now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u379	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u380	Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Protecting people and families who are going through an economic situation of vulnerability is a fundamental objective for any government, for any administration and, of course, an indispensable goal for the Social Policy Council. In this sense, the Greek Government is developing different measures of care for housing and residential inclusion after a deep crisis where much more was seen the existence of mortgage evictions in the first part, and renting in the second part. Galicia, fortunately, today has more instruments that make it easier for these people to stay in their homes. Aid to rent, the social lease bonus, the Royal Programme, the program of empty housing, a very important agreement between the Board, the General Council of Judiciary and the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces that allows to paralyze evictions when a social report determines that there is a risk of social vulnerability, and the programme asks me for its balance sheet, the Reconduce Programme, an initiative aimed at predicting situations in which it can end a launch. The first achievement of the Reconduce is to help to defuse the basic community social services of municipal ownership by providing them with a device to which all cases of defiance exist in the municipalities. Another of the achievements of this program has to do with coordination between administrations. If we are all involved in avoiding evictions, we must all work together: the autonomous administration and local administrations. This program provides a number of services: information and guidance, legal and economic advice, specific social care, psychological support, work orientation, support for an alternative housing... The importance of this program is also a single window, a single window where anyone who finds himself in this situation can come, both in a face-to-face manner and online, with a multidisciplinary team of law enforcement officials, financial economy, psychology and social work. In the balance sheet, I would like to highlight 451 interventions which gave rise to 197 cases of defiance, of which are closed, with agreement or solution, 163; only four cases in which it was not possible to reach an agreement. That is the balance we can put forward in this programme.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u381	Thank you, Counselor. Replica tower, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u382	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, today we have brought this question to this plenary because in the budget debate it has repeated itself, again and again by the opposition groups, that the Galician Union was doing absolutely nothing to fight against rejections. That's why we wanted to bring this question here today. It is true that the collaboration of all the administrations — of the municipalities, of the deputies, of the Galician Union — is essential because the problem is real and the problem remains in our community. That's why we consider it necessary to join efforts and continue to fight for everyone's right to a decent housing. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u383	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, these are the results presented by this programme, the Reconduit. The goal, in addition to the Government of Galicia, is to expand the offices of the Reconduce programme, to bring it closer to different provinces, to different cities, because we are realizing that sometimes we have to supplement basic social services. He said before there was an important saturation, we know, of basic social services, and we're fighting from the council, too, that saturation of municipal services, expanding the number of professionals funded to the municipalities so that they can actually be that first gateway to people's social needs. But, I say, the budget planned for 2017, the budget we just approved, includes EUR 460,000, more than twice that of the previous year to expand this programme. And I would also like to take advantage to say that the pages from 11 to 18 of Galicia's Single Social Agenda deal with evictions, the needs of promoting a housing policy that obviously guarantees that no one is homeless, especially those people who are vulnerable collectives, and within people who are vulnerable collectives, of course I would like to highlight those people who have children or children. The various planned programmes that are agreed with the municipalities and that are agreed with the EAPN, with the poverty organizations in Galicia, with the poverty NGOs in Galicia, design this resource map with the programs we talked about earlier. And in addition, what we want from the Social Policy Council and within the framework of the dialogue that is established with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces is to develop all these measures in relation to the social bond, as well as the paralyzing of defiances, so that we can really prove to society that, if it is a problem of all, we are all willing to close our shoulders when there is a case of defiance. So what we hope and hope for is that these issues of defiance are present in this agenda that we have with the councils and the deputies of Galicia, with the NGOs of Galicia, in order to develop what is envisaged in the Single Social Agenda of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u385	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da Concepción Burgo López and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the intentions of the Junta of Galicia regarding the concertation of squares in the public network of residences and day centres created by the Provincial Deputy of Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u386	You have the floor to Mrs. Burgo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u387	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. As you know perfectly well, Counselor, Lugo is Spain's third province as a percentage of aging, 29% of inhabitants and lumens are over sixty-five years old. Ageing which is extremely severe in certain areas of the province, such as the mountain area — the Fosgrada — reaches 40.6% of the population over sixty-five years. This logically makes the needs and demands of social services, social equipment, increasingly high, more important and, in addition, growing. But this need is accompanied by an absolute shortage, a special shortage, of services and social equipment to care for our population. As you know, the Greek Social Equipment Map indicates that Lugo has a minimum deficit of 2,268 residences and day centers to reach the minimum coverage ratios, not a big coverage anymore. And as you know, there's an important number of municipalities that don't have a residence or a day center. And as you also know, experts point out that attention to the greater duty takes place within their surroundings, within their social and family context, and does not take them away from their usual place. In view of this reality, Lugo's deputy has betted on the creation of a public network of residences and day centres: 13 residences, 15 million euros of investment. And right now they are finished and equipped, paid in full, also the equipment, by the Deputy, the residences of Castro Verde, the Foundry, the Pole and the Workplace. There are 3 others that are very close to finishing and others in different construction stages. This important network of Members wants to be handled publicly, with criteria of universal access, that can go to these homes the collectives, the pensioners of lower incomes, and for that it needs the collaboration of the Galician Union. Not to have funds for parliament, but to have the Union concert squares through agreements, as with any other public administration, so that through agreements there will be concerted squares that allow the lowest rents to go to these residences. The Social Services Act, Counsellor, offers all the necessary instruments to conclude these squares, it is a matter of political will, and since I am sure that its objective, to care for older people, and the aim of the MP is the same, I am sure that we will reach a rationality and an agreement on these agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u388	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u389	Mr. President. Mrs Burgo, ladies and gentlemen. Ask me a very clear question, do you intend for the Galician Council to arrange for squares in public residences and public day centres that form part of the network created by the Lugo Deputy? My answer — and I like to be clear — is yes. We have that intention. I'm not going to talk too much about the past, because ink rivers were written about how these residences were planned, how the place of residences was chosen, if the ratios, if the laws... and so on. Look, we have all that desire, but, as you know, those who defend public administrations, those who have responsibilities in public administrations, what we have to do is comply with the regulations. I really explained it to the President of the Parliament with all arrests at the last meeting we had on this subject, regardless of all that, which, I say, I, as I was not, would rather be obvious. There are two fundamental steps in the creation of senior residences, whether of the MP or of anyone else. One is the creation PIA and the other is the start-up PIA. I understand that they're sometimes a little complicated languages, but this is that for those of us from the local administration, it's boring to say the works license and the opening license. It's obvious that you have to have a works license to start a work, and then you have to have an opening license. Since the president of the Parliament is also from the local administration, you've also been in the local administration, I think that's how we get along. See, the creation IAPs of some of these residences are of September 2015, of April 2013, of April 2016, of March 2013. Finally, they have creative application dates that in some cases coincide with the end of their own residence. And then there's the start-up PIA. Of all residences only 3, of all, they did not apply for a start-up PIA. If all the technical reports from the board showed deficiencies for the start-up PIA award, we're not going to say that's a terrible thing, because it's something that happens often in the works, too when we demand it from a particular person. So all the will, really, for the start-up IAPs — even if it is after the end of some of these residences — can be given, all the technical provision, too, of the advice and technical contacts that are necessary for the start-up IAPs. But there is an essential requirement, Suplusa's request — which is the entity that built those residences and which is the entity that made the call of the staff of those residences — is April 8, 2010, with a negative response from the board. I informed the President of the Parliament of this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u390	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u391	Therefore, it is essential—after part two, I will continue to explain this part, which I think is very important—the inclusion of Suplusa in the RUES, i.e. that Suplusa is an entity that provides social services in Galicia; like any council and as any deputy, it is an essential requirement. Then I'll continue on the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u392	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, if there is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u393	Yes, of course, if you give me the floor, of course, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u394	Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u395	Look, Counselor, I understand that you don't want to talk about the past, neither will I talk about all the pitfalls that you put together for this network of public residences if it was done and if it was carried out, so it's best not to talk about the past and focus on the present. [[Applause]] You also know that to ask for this PIA, of what we're talking about, I don't know why the Board always has, let's say, the habit of finding a deficiency — if, as is normal — just when it ends the six-month period, which is mandatory to give. Then another six months pass, and look where we found another deficiency at six months. But I don't want to talk about it either. I want to talk about it is from a public administration that should be glad that another public administration will put on the table 15 million euros to improve the lives of our citizens, and that should be received by the board with open arms and give it all the facilities and not put one trap after another. Those problems that you talk about the IAPs and entities can certainly be solved by technicians talking to an institutional loyalty that is needed between the two parties, talking to each other. I'm sure that dialogue will lead to all of these. What I want to know, Counsellor, is whether you have the political will of -- once fixed these problems and having the PIA -- to make agreements with the MP to conclude squares and that our citizens of lower incomes can use those residences where there are no private residences, because it turns out they are not profitable; that is, to do the same through an agreement, that is, you are doing with the private companies to concert squares. That's what I really want to know. Do you have the political will to make this agreement with Parliament and to improve — as is your obligation — the life of a group of elderly, very needy, in addition to residences and day centres? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u396	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u397	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Burgo, I told you I wasn't going to talk about the past and I'm not going to talk about the past, really, because what we want, really, from the Government is to fix this situation. To fix this situation, I say, of requests for PIAs requested after the completion of some works. Look, the subject of registration, there is no residence in Galicia open with a holder not registered in the EUSR, but no residence or municipal office of social services, or absolutely no place where social services are provided without that registration. I told the president that the statutes of Suplusa had to be amended, because a company promoting urbanisms of an MP was building residences and hiring staff for residences, and that the social purpose of Suplusa was to be given, as you can imagine. Well, the Statutes of Suplusa changed on July 28, 2016, I thought we were starting in the right direction to sign the Suplusa. Well, I have here the appeal that the President of the Parliament has brought against the Suplusa agreement, that Suplusa had no social interest and that therefore could not be registered in the RUSS. But look, I've got something else -- and it's a novelty that I think is very important -- that September 2, 2017 comes to court because the president of the parliament has led the courts to amend the Statutes of Suplusa, and the February 2, 2017 judgment authorizes the inclusion of Suplusa in the RUSS. By the way, it imposes costs on the President of the Parliament for challenging an act of the Member State itself. So, as we now have this February 2nd sentence, Suplusa is ready to sign up, and once Suplusa registers and, with that loyalty that asks me, we overcome the technical obstacles, the Members' residences can become operational, and they will count on the economic support of the Galician Union. Also tell you something else, look at 15 million euros, in almost ten years of this program, it's not a social support either to assume. The Social Policy Council targets public squares in the province of Lugo, more than 2,000 squares with public funds, 4,000 dependency books and 50 million a year. So, I mean, we're going to increase...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u398	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u399	...because Lugo needs it and Lugo deserves it, but I think you can also ask the Deputation of Lugo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u400	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u401	...if you're so worried about it, it's a greater economic contribution. And really, I think we can agree on that. [[Applause]] I'm telling you, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u402	Thank you, no, no, thank you, that's it. Thanks, but it's over now, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u403	Look, on the subject of competences that I don't care about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u404	Thank you, no, no, thank you
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u405	Look, if the municipalities and the deputies have no competence to be well-being, I don't know why they have welfare concellers and social welfare Members.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u406	Counselor, your time is up. Thank you. Last question Question by José González Vázquez and five other Members of the G.P. Popular, on the measures and aids that are driving the Government of Greece towards the vertebration of the milk sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u407	Mr. Vega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u408	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. This humble parliamentary group defends the need for the German Government to explain, as soon as possible, a position on a topic of interest to our autonomous community. Faced with the position of the various parliamentary groups — I have to say that, worthy representatives of apocalyptic prophets — that carry a catastrophic vision and lack of projects — yes yes, a rather utopian message — I mean phrases that you say in this parliamentary arch, such as "valuable policies", "spoken against the powerful", "common agent", etc., etc. But, look, I believe that the Galician Council, and it is important that the advisor, should explain what policy is for the agricultural sector and, in particular, the livestock dairy sector. [[Laughter]] I think we are doing — and the Galician Union is doing — great efforts to fix the population in rural areas. I think the frison cattle is getting more profitable because the price improvement in milk is a reality, even though some who talk to us about ridiculous prices and don't realize that today the livestock sector is much better than it was. I know some people don't feel good about it, but that's why we need to know the sector and not just talk about the sector. [[Applause]] I therefore believe that the position of the Galician Council in the face of a speech that comes —in and talk about emergency plans — is a concrete plan for the dairy sector. And I trust that the advisor fully explains the concrete plan for this sector. What, from our point of view, are the great themes for today for our owners? Because I think it's the territorial theme, it's the payment for the incorporation plans, for the improvement plans, it's the promotion of the associationism that exists today and it's a reality not only between cooperatives and industries, but between gloves. And I think this whole thing deserves an explanation, listen and then judge. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u409	Thank you, Mr. Vega. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u410	President, ladies and gentlemen, very late. Well, actually, we have to do an analysis of what our dairy sector is and, from here on, think about it. And there's no greater opinion than being in constant contact with them and doing a comprehensive study of the progress that has been made in recent months. We find ourselves, right now, at a crucial moment for Welsh milk, a crucial moment after the disappearance of milk quotas and a crucial moment where our livestock — especially the youngest and most professional — choose to resize their holdings and become real companies. And in addition, it adapts to the conditions that the market imposes on us, because the final product will come out according to consumer demands. Our community remains a power, a power because it still has 40% of production and 55% of our livestock, and not only in the Spanish field, but also in the European field. We are the ninth most important region in the European Union where milk is concerned, and despite this alarm that some people want to put on the table, despite that obscurantism that others want it to always go out in the media, it must be said that Galicia continues to increase its production. And it continues to increase, besides, in a difficult year, as it ended and in which there was an increase in production of 0.77%. And here are the prices, actually they're not the ones we'd like to have, but, no doubt, there are 3 cents more than in July, and 3 cents more are more than important and there's no need to disregard them. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of that alarmism, the numbers tell you everything, and those numbers are that we've just solved in 2016, favourably, 582 files, of which 56% are for improvements in the milk field. And 613 young people decide to join a rural activity, and of these 613 young people 38%, in addition, they're going to do it on dairy farms. In this month of February - and without wasting more time - we will republish the order of aid for modernization and incorporation, and we will do it with 5 million more. In other words, between the two years it is EUR 125 million that is intended for the incorporation of young people, but also for the modernization of our farms. We invest in this sector because this sector, no doubt, has a future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u411	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u412	...and it has a future with increasingly pointed farms and, in addition, with greater dimensions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u413	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Vega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u414	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Counselor. Well, it is shown — if they realized and put their ears and listened — that the Galician Union has a plan. First A and then E, first attend to then understand. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] I mean, right now, I think it's proven and it's palpable and it's visible that the Galician Union has a plan, and it's a plan about a sector that is priority. And you know perfectly well that the livestock sector is a priority sector for Galicia, and for our Government, and for this parliamentary group. We're not just talking about possible utopias and possible projects, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about realities here. And when we talk about reality, we're talking about projects that can be seen and observed, or do you not observe what happens today with the Feiraco, Brothers and Melisanto cooperative? That's a fusion of cooperativeism that translates into club, and that's one of the first cooperatives that's going to have the whole Spanish map. Or do you not know the union of cooperativeism between — which is an important industry — read and the Coreber cooperative that they bought Celega? This translates into the third industry in this country, in this Galicia. Of course, you're systematically criticizing that Galicia has no cooperativeism, that Galicia has no industry, when there's a speech that is trying to destabilize the sector, that is, Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this translates totally into an investment. You believe me when I tell you to invest, too, in rural areas is to invest in land management, and it's to invest in the partial concentration. This translates into an economic amount...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u415	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u416	...because it's important to talk about projects, but also budget. I'm done with this, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u417	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u418	...28 million euros for spatial planning and partial concentration, a total amount of 80 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u419	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u420	Realities and not words, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u421	Thank you. Start. It must be a little generous at the beginning of a Member. [[Murmurs.]] Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u422	Thank you, Mr. President. We ended a year with an important data, and it is that the Council of the Rural Environment — the Galician Union — opts for transformation. You have to know, ladies and gentlemen, that 50% of the milk — not only from Galicia, but also from Spain — is intended solely and exclusively for the sale of classical milk, that is, a brick and a cap; and there is very little margin, the trend must change. And we started with a big bet, and that bet was the transformation. We ended last year and we did it, in addition, with aid of great interest, and within these aids invested EUR 14.5 million for processing and marketing entirely of milk. But we wanted to start even better the year, and in advance of spending, and on January 2nd, and ending on January 31st, there was again the order of transformation of our milk products, of which I have to give you good news for the sector, but also for you to have knowledge: a total of 35 companies bet on rural Greek and milk processing, with an investment of 44 million euros that will be carried out in our Galicia to transform those products that will give a greater margin of benefit, and therefore will have a positive impact on our farmers. Yesterday I was with Interprofessional Milk, we have to go hand in hand, no doubt, at all points that we pull out in front of the sector, and that sector is in that Interprofessional. We have the best frame, no doubt, that was the milk agreement; the best never signed everywhere, but it is true that further progress has to be made. And within that advance, we have to bet on the sustainability and, in addition, on the transparency within the value chain. That transparency that starts from the weakest, that is always the best man, going through industry and, of course, transformation. That's the line we're going to go on, and not just that, but to identify our product, so that the consumer knows he has in his hands, that he wants for his health, but also to bet on the territory and the yellow gain. And not only that, do you know that the decrease is considerable when we get closer to buying milk products, especially liquid milk. In the last two years, it has dropped by 5% and we have to change the trend, because it's more than proven, scientifically, the nutritional values of our milk. From there the bet that the Galician Union will make, the bet that the ministry will make and that it is also making the European Union to promote our dairy products.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u423	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u424	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-08-DSPG016.u425	Thank you, Counselor. Finish the full here. Good afternoon, everyone.
