ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. The Members and Mrs. Rosa Quintana, Ms. José Manuel Rey Varela, Ms. Magdalena Barahona and Ms. Paula Vázquez Verao, have justified this plenary session. We're already on the agenda. As a first point, the Annual Report of the People's Valedor for 2016. Annual Report of the People's Valedor for the year 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u2	In accordance with the rules governing relations between Parliament and the People's Valor, adopted by the Bureau on 28 May 1991, the debate of the plenary of the Annual Report will be adjusted to the following procedure. The People's Valor will present a summary of the Report, discussed before the Committee on Petitions on 3 April 2017. At its end, the sitting room will be abandoned, and Members and Members will begin their deliberations. Second. In accordance with the order of action provided for in Article 80.1 of the Rules of Procedure, the representatives or representatives of each parliamentary group may intervene, for a maximum of ten minutes each, to determine their position on the report submitted. Third. As a result of this issue, no motions for resolutions can be tabled in the light of their information, without prejudice to subsequent regulatory initiatives. Therefore, and to begin with the intervention, I beg the vice president first to accompany the Valorative lady of the people to the rostrum of speakers for her intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u3	Thank you. You have the word of the people's valet, Mrs. Miracles Otero Parga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u4	Mr President of the Galician Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Bureau of Parliament, spokesmen for parliamentary groups, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I come before you today to report on the activity of the People's Valedor institution during the year 2016. The people's Valedor institution worked hard this year, attended to many more people, many more organizations and entities, and worried about many more problems. He also took over and launched the Transparency Commission and the Commissioner of Galicia. I don't want to bore them with numbers or percentages. In this institution we are more concerned with people than with figures, because for us any problem is important. I am aware, however, that some indicative figures need to be brought up, and so allow me, briefly, to transfer them, so they may have to be exemplifiers. In 2016, the institution responded to complaints from a total of 64,937 people; that is, 25,528 files more than last year. This increase—significant, no doubt—responsibly responds to some collective complaints, but indicates that the institution of the People's Valedor is increasingly known by the Greek people and that they are increasingly the people who trust it to solve their problems. We are an effective and necessary institution. We work with dedication to meet demands in an agile, clear, free and impartial manner. Society knows that, and that's why it comes to us, aware that we are not going to judge, but only to listen and help what we can and what is in our hands. In the set of complaints submitted and of those I reported, 64,554 were admitted, i.e. 99,41%. The most significant, which significantly increases the number of complaints in the area, is placed in health care. She was murdered by doctors and workers at the Mexoeiro Hospital, as well as a large part of the viguesian population, who feared that this hospital would be without any function with the new Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital in Vigo. And another collective complaint, of 11,238 signatories, that complained about the shift of workers from 112 and 061 from Santiago de Compostela municipality to Highway. With regard to the amount, the next area which has a very high number of complaints is that of public and internal employment, with a total of 11,584 claims. Then there is education — more distant — with a total of 788; and local corporations, municipal services and civil protection, with 448. Of the 64,554 complaints filed this year, 63,419 were concluded, i.e. 98,24%. And there are still 1,135 pens, that is, 1.76%. In the extensive report — which is at your disposal and is publicly known — complaints are collected, broken down by themes and areas, with careful study of trends and percentages. I will no longer stop by disaggregating figures, I am now interested in thinking with you about those situations that I believe have not been resolved properly, because we are not satisfied with the results achieved. For the people's Valedor institution, any problem that affects the normal exercise of the rights of the people of Galicia is equally important, but in some cases it is more painful, for referring to the rights of the most unprotected people, such as women who are victims of gender violence, single-parent families, unemployed people, sick or disabled people, young and older people and LGTBI people. When the problem affects some of them, the damage is usually greater, because these people find it harder to defend themselves, thus often becoming easy for right predators. This valet considers a failure every time and every time she was unable to help recognize or restore the rights of the Greeks, as well as she welcomes those other occasions she could do. In this respect, I denounce the significant increase in complaints related to the actions of banking entities. It is urgent to avoid abusive practices such as those relating to the transfer of credits to fund managers, collectively called "voitre funds", without meeting the requirements of reliable, clear and complete notification to the debtor, which actually allows him to exercise the right of withdrawal that the law confers on him, as well as the restoration of lost rights with the floor clauses and the preferences. Another problem affecting banking institutions in dealing with their customers is the wide margin of improvement in the rejections and housing releases due to the lack of payment of mortgage quotas. Aware of the seriousness of this situation, which in many cases needs an immediate solution, we have opened investigations by making direct contact with banks and other credit institutions. The matter is not easy, since, in the absence of a public administration, these entities are not subject to our supervision. However, aware of the situation of extreme vulnerability of many of the people affected by these problems, we have made requests for collaboration that I must say have been welcomed on many occasions, which I sincerely thank, for these relationships have resulted in a lot of improvements for citizens. As a result of this collaboration, several banks and banking entities have acquired the commitment not to evict their homes for lack of payment to any of their debtors, as well as to renegotiate debts and inform their customers more clearly of their products. We have also achieved the commitment to non-cession of litigious credits to " voitre funds" and to provide all necessary and prior information to their customers. Despite these advances, situations of unjustified abuse continue to exist. For this reason, since the Valador institution, we will continue to insist, according to the case law of the European Court, that abusive clauses do not bind to any effect, and that could thus be regarded as those which are not properly explained or understood by the customer, along with those which are not individually negotiated. We have also failed to solve many of the problems affecting the Galician transport system, especially regarding the absence of transfer lines or the removal or non-compliance of schedules and services. We hope that Law 10/2016, of urgent measures to update Galicia's public transport system, will improve this situation by creating a new service map that is more responsive to the actual needs of users. We'll keep an eye on it. Another pending task refers to the unjustified lack of information on the state of processing of public works projects, as well as the limited or nullity of the claims of the citizens concerned. The payment of expropriatory proceedings usually also presents a delay which is not compatible with the rights of citizenship, and which we denounce. Many of the noise conflicts that citizens report have not been resolved this year either. After our intervention, the situation improved in most of the municipalities affected, although much work remains to be done. The problem of homeless people has been repeatedly addressed in Santiago de Compostela. The Town Hall of Santiago seems to have finally taken the measures recommended by this institution. As far as the scope of justice is concerned, our intervention usually relates to alleged denials of free justice, negligence in the activity of the designated lawyer, denial of change of lawyer or request of the same lawyer in cases of gender violence. This institution is equally concerned at the traditional resistance of some municipalities to facilitate access to municipal information necessary to fully carry out its work. We understand — and in that sense we resolve the 19 complaints that have reached us — that it is essential to facilitate the work of concelers in municipal corporations, because otherwise it would be very difficult to control and control local government bodies, making good democratic health almost impossible. We also understand that for this work to be fully accomplished, democratic awareness is needed to avoid abuses that sometimes hinder normal government and local administration activity. From this institution we want to draw attention to improvements in urbanism, intensifying urban inspection functions, because this was not only an important saving on bureaucratic costs by paralyzing an illegal work at an early stage, but would also facilitate the restoration of urban order, which is now quite hurt. In other matters, we understand that health must face an important challenge, which is concrete in the need to combine the supply of quality public health with the sustainability or financial balance of economic resources, preserving an effective, equitable and solvent health system. We are aware that in the current situation in Galicia there are other added problems that make this process difficult, such as the remarkable increase in health expenditure due to factors outside the system itself; such as the ageing of the population, the increase in life expectancy and the emergence of new pathologies, often associated with these circumstances. Despite all these elements, this valet considers the maintenance of services compatible with the dignity of the person essential. It is necessary to preserve the basic benefits of citizens, and if that is not possible with current formulations, we urge the rapid implementation of reforms that are needed. Citizens are not guilty of any of these surviving circumstances, and therefore the negative consequences of them must not be affected. It is also of concern to this institution to the necessary humanization of health care. Human care needs to be tightened, and not only professional, because the sick human being, the sick person, is much more vulnerable than the one who is not, and for the same reason, must be more protected. Likewise, the sick must be particularly careful not to verbally or physically abuse the health personnel, so that the aggressions that are also reported to this institution do not occur. I'm sorry to have to inform your gentlemen that you haven't been able to respond to the proposals for improvement in the management of the waiting lists that this valet would like to be able to communicate. Once again, we argue that these lists should be organized using clear and transparent prioritization criteria. It is urgent for citizens to be properly informed of the criteria that follow with regard to the establishment of waiting lists, and, in the event that they refuse the alternative offered to be treated in derivative centres and prefer to continue to wait to be met in their centres of origin, they are fully aware of the order to be followed in the new designation, so that, even if they have to wait according to the availability of those chosen places, that expectation is a reasonable period of time, rather than being postponed in some cases sine die. We also recommend extreme care with regard to reorganization in the management of health centres and services, physical spaces and material resources, without losing sight of the fact that people and their rights are the primary element to protect. There are also problems arising from public employment, which take place both in terms of access and in terms of the working conditions of workers who provide services in the Public Service. We call attention to the need for the Administration to fulfil all the commitments it has made to the workers to the extent that the process of economic recovery is strengthened. And it's good for this whole process to culminate sooner than later. Nor can we agree with what we consider excessive public administration protection in the form of administrative silence. The Public Service must be at the service of citizens and must therefore answer to what they require with speed, clarity, justice and responsibility. Administrative silence must be the exception and never the rule. This institution is also concerned about the problems of people who are excluded or at risk of social exclusion. In relation to dependency, there are delays in payment, which, however, have greatly improved in recent times. The same is true of the full attention paid to the rights of persons with some kind of disability. In a similar sense, we consider a major problem, which refers to energy poverty. It is unworthy and contrary to the proper exercise of human rights that people do not have their minimum needs in this field. And it is particularly serious if people who lack this coverage belong to particularly vulnerable groups, such as older people, disabled people or children. We are also largely concerned about the shortage of residential squares for larger ones, especially in urban centres, as well as accessibility problems. Apart from that, they deserve the problems arising from the lack of payment of pensions for the workers they paid abroad. This problem is particularly bloody in two cases: pensioners from Norway and those from Venezuela. We must not cease to work in full respect of the rights acquired by them, but, in anticipation of the fact that they may be delayed, it is necessary to provide the means necessary to ensure that people affected by this problem have a dignified life. We would also like to be able to alleviate the serious problems faced by the refugees who had to leave their homes fleeing the war, torture or murder. It's unfair and very painful the situation of these people who lack the most elemental to survive. We urge the self-government authorities to implement a more active and effective policy to address the arrival of asylum-seekers and refugees, because only in this way will their dignity and their rights be safe. There's another group of people who worry me a lot. They're minors, because they're especially physically and emotionally vulnerable people. It is necessary to urge the best functioning of the protection centres, to correct the dysfunctions of the psychosocial reports of the Imelga, to obtain greater economic support in extended family shelters and to solve the multiple problems arising from the guard, custody and regime of visits to traumatic ruptures among the progenitors. Having informed the Council of these dysfunctions, he has informed us that he is working to achieve a satisfactory solution to take measures to help solve these problems. To this end, the Greek Administration itself raised the relevant ministry the need to ensure the compatibility of the remuneration of extended family shelters with minimum survival pensions. From this institution we insist that all necessary measures should be studied to equate the different types of accommodation, since economic benefits should be linked to protected minors and should not depend on family income or whether or not there are ties of kinship between caregivers and minors. Nor do family meeting points work well, which are few — seven in the entire autonomous community — in addition. It is necessary to ensure the protection of numerous families, avoiding the exclusion of one of the parents of the corresponding title in case of separation or divorce. I would also like to make your lordships aware of the serious problem of uncontrolled ingestion of alcoholic beverages by minors or even by young age, in which you colloquially know the name of "botellon." We understand, from this institution, that reaching the age group does not imply that society should remain passive to the pattern of mass alcohol consumption practice, because the generality it has achieved and the lack of real prevention of youth about the serious consequences of this practice makes it essential that society protect its young people, helping them regain the dignity they lose when they make uncontrolled use of alcoholic beverages or drugs. Similarly, it generated an alarm in a school center when the plates containing asbestos were removed during a school term. The problem, fortunately, was solved when it was found that there was never really any real danger for children, but it was logical and understandable the concern of the parents. That's why we urge the Council to continue with the withdrawal of asbestos-containing materials in non-lethal periods. Another problem that is of great concern to the institution of Valador is that of school harassment. We must continue to work to eradicate it, especially by protecting children with a timid or reserved personality. We believe that special attention should be given to combating homophobic behaviour, as well as attacks on transsexual minors, which unfortunately did not disappear. We also advocate for better access to complementary educational resources, such as school transportation and school dining. As far as university education is concerned, this institution has, on its own initiative, initiated a complaint about the situation of professors accredited to professors and university holders in the field of the Greek university system. The complexity of the problem that has been exposed required to open a special report to analyze all the details of this situation, which limits, in an unacceptable way, the legitimate rights of university professors and trumps the possibility of the University of Greece to grow and become more competitive in the rankings of educational institutions. So far, ladies and gentlemen, I've spoken of some of the performances that this institution has performed, putting emphasis on those things that we have not been able to improve, and therefore we have to keep trying; as you see, there are many. And so this institution is useful, because there are many situations to improve and many rights to value. Nevertheless, I believe that there are other actions of the Valedor that have already managed to address situations of injustice today, and that is why I am especially pleased to be able to report some of them to you today. My satisfaction is not lack of modesty, for the achievement is due to the entire staff of the Valedor office, to whom I thank very much for their work and their dedication. I'm pleased with the launch of the Galician Transparency Commission. Today's society seeks clarity, it wants to know, it wants to be informed, it wants to understand, it wants to be able to form an opinion and, above all, it wants to be able to exercise its rights. That's where the right to transparency comes from. To support the functions of transparency control and good governance, Article 32 of Law 1/2016, of January 18th, of transparency of Galicia, created the Commissioner of Transparency, whose functions are assigned to the People's Value. The Valator, therefore, increases his responsibilities towards the Greek society as a whole. On the one hand, it maintains the functions it already had, aimed at ensuring the effective respect for citizens' rights by the Administration, and on the other hand, it must carry out the tasks of monitoring compliance with transparency obligations. Both functions are different, but they don't interfere, they're coordinated. The Galician Transparency Commission is composed of the people's valet, the president; the deputy vice president; and one representative of each of the following bodies or entities: Interdepartmental Committee on Information and Evaluation of the Galician Board, the Advisory Council and the Galician Council of Accounts and the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. This commission was set up in the Autonomous Community of Galicia on 10 May 2016 and started to function from then on, by adopting its rules of procedure on 14 June 2016. Since the commission started its activity — I offer you data at this time — 92 resources have been submitted, of which 57 have been settled, pending 35. Of them, in 29 cases we managed to deliver the requested information. I believe that the work for transparency has begun and is showing good fruit, but much remains to be done. It's necessary to break into molds, it's necessary to convince citizens and public authorities of the importance of transparency, in order for it to become a form of life, an identifying culture of a whole people, of our people, of Galicia. I think we're doing this moderately well, because the pursuit of excellence in this area also made the people's Valedor institution worthy of awarding the award of the public transparency organization as the most transparent Spanish defender. I also feel moderately satisfied with the work of the institution that tends to make it known to citizens. To this end, we visit various municipalities in Galicia, where we explain the role of Valador. I particularly welcome the actions of this institution in which we have been able to substantially improve the rights of particularly unprotected persons. In this area includes the protection of sexual diversity, whose monitoring is especially entrusted to Valador. With regard to this right, different outreach actions were implemented, especially in schools, which culminated in the collaboration in the edition of a book entitled Family, which explains the realities of current families. But perhaps the action that I consider most important was the accompaniment of a transsexual person who had no facilities to operate and who is now operating and developing his normal life, having for all purposes sex that he always felt as himself. As I've already indicated, minors are also some people whose protection especially concerns this valet. In relation to them, and because of our intervention, the Social Policy Council accepted a recommendation to keep a child's school open by location, regardless of the minimum number of users, during the working days of the holidays of Christmas and Holy Week. In this way, parents and mothers under the age of 3 can reconcile family and work life. This is, in our judgment, an indispensable measure for demographic dynamization. Likewise, we have achieved improvements for our elders, making visible their need for residences, especially in the urban sphere, that do not distance them from their homes and allow them to be together in case they form a couple. In a similar area, the exhibition response from the Social Policy Council is put in place by accepting our recommendation to help people with hearing impairment by installing magnetic loops in many public places. He also agreed to the Council's recommendation to enable a disability card to facilitate the accreditation of its users. Similarly, Greek universities have shown themselves receptive to modifying the access rate for people with disabilities in masters and doctors. We are also glad that complaints about dependency, although still referring to delays, these are to a lesser extent than at other times and refer to problems of payrolls, decreases in libraries or waiting lists for services and not to concessions in themselves. Our intervention was also very positive in terms of consumer protection in the field of electricity supply, the establishment of basic rights for end-users of telephones and electronic communications services, and the extension of social bond and social electronic ticket for economically vulnerable individuals. We felt satisfied with the actions carried out in behalf of people with already marked release dates, which, thanks to the sensitivity of the Housing Council and the IGVS, we were able to collect or offer some housing solution. The same is true of the actions we've implemented in relation to banks and some of the abusive practices they've been doing. I'm also happy with the mediations made since this institution that enabled arrangements in situations where it was difficult to reach an agreement. Among them, I remember with special affection those who made it possible for free access to the cinemas of diabetic children and colostomy patients, who needed to introduce small bags with hygienic and food materials they needed for their care. In terms of language policy, we appreciate an effort in the private sector to respect citizens' rights to use the official language of their choice in all areas of their activity, seeking to offer their products and services in English and adapting their management procedures to their commercial activity. For their part, public administrations tried to correct the dysfunctions detected with regard to the linguistic rights of citizens. We have seen an increasing awareness that there are individual and collective linguistic rights and that, with full respect to the freedom of all speakers in a community in which Greek is a co-official language, the right of all people to live in the language of Galicia must be guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to tire them anymore. I gave them a sample of what we did in the People's Valedor. I am aware that there are many situations to improve, things to change and actions to undertake. These deficiencies, along with the successes obtained in defending the rights of the Greeks, determine the usefulness and effectiveness of the institution, as well as the need to continue to work. In this work I claim the collaboration of the institutions, because the lack of harmony between them and a control institution such as Valador is in danger of good democratic health. Public authorities must not understand that the People's Valedor is an enemy. All administrations receive numerous recommendations or assessments, which often do not share. However, they considered them constructively for the benefit of citizenship, which, as shown by institutional loyalty, implies that everyone respects the role of the other. That's why it's not acceptable to respond to the assessments brought up with attacks of deslegitimizing intent of the institutions, a practice in which this valet of the people will not fall. I pledge my personal effort and that of the entire staff of the People's Valedor office in the defence of the rights of the Greeks. We are aware of the responsibility that involves our work and the expectations that the Greek people have in us. We take them with humility and with surrender and we will continue to work to be worthy of them. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u5	Thank you, Valor. Follow the vice president. [[The Valuable Lady of the People leaves the sitting room accompanied by the first Vice-President of Parliament.]] Thanks to the valet. Round of parliamentary groups to set positions. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Let me say hello from here to the opening of a hope of freedom that has occurred forty-three years ago in the sound of a song, a symbol and a dawn for those who live on the night of national fascism and feel as the assumption of freedom. Mrs Otero, your report — which we have told you in the Committee on Petitions — reaffirms in our criticisms of the policies of this government. It's an X-ray that shows the accelerated loss of fundamental rights, as a result of the policy of brutal cuts carried out by this government. Diagnosis in a discarnated way the deterioration of public services along with failures and deficiencies that repeat year after year and that there is no intention to remedy them. Your institution cannot be a repairer of holes when these are the result of conscious policies that only a few serve. What weapons do you have and what strategies do you use this institution that you preside over when collective demands, fair and reasoned, directly point to premeditated government actions? Many complaints in health care — 50,000 out of a total of 69,937 — do not respond to occasional errors or isolated human errors. They are failures of the system motivated by a government action that penalizes public health and derives public resources from private health, or they also respond to carpets and covered operations of transvasion of public media that should continue to be public and go wherever they go. This in itself is perversion. I'm talking about these collective complaints that allude to insulin needles, to users of public residences, to the scandals of Álvaro Cunqueiro, de Vigo, and to the permanence of services in the Mexoiro, families and oncoholic patients. This health thing has a long et cetera, too long. Complaints about bank abuse are not isolated cases. They respond to a consciously programmed robbery that mocks the most basic standards of ethics and justice. We don't see an action from that institution that removes the colors from either the bank or the government, which allows these abusive practices. It's the first time, in my many years already, that I see on the street defending with the tenacious and energy of older people mocked by the favorites, only against the giants, and you claim that they're mills: Voitre funds, ground clauses... The pensioners of the foreign, mocked also after a lifetime of work, and some governments that are about tow instead of acting in international forums with energy, defending the reason and the interests of their administrators. Can't the Valiant lady give in, pressure the reason she attends? Why don't you? Of course, we've heard you don't want or have to get involved in politics, but not making collective general complaints makes your institution act politically by default and consent. Because the data you handle are human, they have the load and the pain, at different doses, that make them real. Not many days ago at the Committee on Petitions, I asked you about the right of my granddaughters to be educated, along with their comrades and companions, in the language of the country of the Greeks. He didn't answer us; he wasn't worthy to accuse us of receipt of the question. Today he referred to freedom. The law and procedure of the Council for Education and Culture and the General Directorate for Linguistic Policy undermine the basic basic right of the inhabitants of this country to know and use their language in the region, which speaks of the crickets, the willows, trouts and human solidarity. Right and duty of solidarity "from" and "from" the people of Greek, right and duty to be normal in a normal country. Because this PP government broke unilaterally with that incipient normality. He broke that agreement to put an end to so many years of linguistic shame, and they decided to put an end to it using lies and propaganda, to destabilize any possibility of normalization and regeneration of that right — and duty — that we should be assisted by being part of the original and enriching way of seeing the cosmos. I speak for my grandchildren, but also for my former students and former students, normalized at school and at home and who today, thanks to the decree of trilinguism, are no longer here and become members of a non-existent limbo, of the cloud of uniform globalization, of the universe of consumption and of worrying dehumanization. Tell us about those rights, too. They don't write to him either. My question, which I'll ask several times: and those who don't know, don't want or don't believe in the usefulness of the institution and don't write or call it, where are they? The complaint of 061 and 112 for the transfer was made manifest the other day when it collapsed and it was unable to answer until two and a half hours in the morning the emergency service, with fires and wind almost stormed all over the north of the country. Collectives who file complaints and are not being dealt with, because sometimes they solve timely issues that widen the achievements, but these collective complaints that are most silent need political solutions at all. Sometimes — more than desirable — the explanation that has been given is what the Administration provides you with. So, then, a buffer role, when you see the report, you should have some conclusions showing the serious deficiencies that the Government has in its management. The rural environment has no requests and you have no logical explanation. In 2016 more than 600 dairy farms were closed, over 9,000 of the total, and in the course of the year there are more than 40. The number of heads is concentrated in macrograndes and part of the rural is depopulated. Visit the eastern part of Galicia, from the vertical of Compostela to the east. The new ones go away, the population is old and the eucalyptus grow up at the doors of the houses. You see people at dawn and at night with reflective vests on the cholesterol route. The units have closed, the trade goes a little less, the lines of transport of passengers are closed, the services there, and the residences of old enough. But they don't write it, and they know how to do it, but they've lost faith. Paraphrasing Castelao in a too free adaptation: rural people don't protest, emigration. But emigration when you're old and strong to do so, it's not the case of this sector of the population you're talking about. Don't tell us who he is and visit us, join the cholesterol route, talk to people and you'll see, take paper and pencils to take notes, and take good care of him. I return to the question that we reiterated throughout this exhibition since the BNG: what kind of political pressure can or should the Valuative Lady, chosen by this Parliament and an independent person — in theory — make when she detects the repeated oppression of certain individual or collective citizens' rights? Because this is the million of your institution. Is it a valet of individuals or does it enter into its functions the detection and denunciation of the failures of policies or administrative practices of a government or a system? And when it comes to these collectives or marginal stock exchanges of population that don't protest but have suffered and suffer the crisis more harshly than any other, they don't write it, but they do exist, they know well from them the workers and social workers of the municipalities: unemployed, immigrants, long-term unemployed, cheated by pensions abroad. And the refugees. The forgetfulness we make institutionally of them makes us quell. People looking for a way out of their hunger, people looking for a place to protect themselves, a little house to protect themselves from torture, rape, death, destruction. And we, quiet, quiet, with a hundred, two hundred, three hundred squares. Energy poverty and a thousand more compartments that make up a closet that we used to call poverty and that today we euphemize, perhaps, so that we don't pray so much, but it's there, and I think we should treat it as such: evictions, rising people with wages and cars and today searching for food remnants and inserts in the trash containers. I think you know that poverty smells and gives you eyes. So do we. Only those who have chronic social constipation, or who cover their eyes with opaque sunglasses, do not want to know about this reality. Finally, we welcome, as it could not otherwise be, the resolution of the particular cases that your institution has managed or helped manage, but we do not welcome the lack of courage for the complaint when structural failures were detected, abuses permitted by the authority or machinery of the Administration, result of actions, laws or political measures. And that's where your institution, ours, should assert itself effective, and our judgment has not done so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u7	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to this plenary meeting of the Italian Parliament, you and the people who accompany you to the gallery. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the population's annual report for 2016; a voluminous report, with abundant data reflecting the dissatisfaction of many citizens with regard to the treatment of their rights in different institutions. From the Socialist Group we want to address the globalisation of the report from the point of view of institutions. We do not want to minimize its value, circumscribing the point situations that need to be clarified within the institutions. The Valorative lady, in her presence in committee, said: "For the institution of the People's Valor, any problem affecting the normal exercise of Galician citizenship rights is equally important, but some cases are more painful to refer to the rights of the most unprotected people, those that are most difficult to defend themselves and that are easily seized by the predators of rights." We shared that reflection, and even promoted a way of acting according to it. The institution's daily effort must be consistent with this commitment: objective attention to all complaints and priorityization of demands affecting the most vulnerable. By the way, citizens' and citizens' demands would not arrive in the amounts reflected in this institution of the People's Valedor if the rights were admitted or recognized, in the same area, once claimed; in the field where the powers are. When these rights are not admitted or recognized, some of them are channelled, individually or collectively, in the form of complaints or claims to the institution of the People's Valedor. Others, neither admitted nor recognized, end their course in those acts, without people and groups — usually the weakest — recovering them in one. That's why we want to value their relevant role and the sensitivity that is needed in the institution in order to tackle the issues they deal with. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to make a comprehensive assessment of the report, focusing on those issues that seem most relevant to us. And, given the report, at least three issues seem relevant to us, which — not hidden — are a matter of concern to the Socialist Group. An increase of 65% of citizens who resort to the valet through complaints or complaints; an increase of 3% of complaints cases, and the minimum percentage of complaints and complaints, 0.1%, that come from rural areas. It seems appropriate to deepen on the three issues I have just mentioned. The first of them has its reason for the dissatisfaction shown by the citizenry to the Valator in the form of claims that have not been satisfied in the field of competence itself. The report reveals that in 2015 there were 39,409 complaints, and in 2016, 64,937; a substantial increase of 25,528, equivalent to 65% more. Not for long, they minimize their importance. The second question has to do with the increase in the number of issues raised. In 2015, 2,287 issues were raised, and in 2016, 2,356, 69 more issues, equivalent to 3% increase. The report clearly reveals that claims are concentrated in two areas: health and public and internal employment. Health was the cause of 50,368 complaints, 77,56 % of the total complaints. Public and internal employment absorbed 11,642 complaints, 17.93 % of the total. We do not want to place any importance on the other claims or on other claims areas, but it is true that two areas account for 62.010 citizens' claims, 95.49% of the total. The third area of complaint is education. These data are relevant and also enlightening. They are relevant because they are very sensitive areas, of utmost concern to citizens, and clarifying because the three areas, health, public employment and education, are the competences of the Autonomous Community and managed in the last eight years by governments of the People's Party; governments of the People's Party implacable with the application of policies of cuts, privatization and precariousness. Ladies and gentlemen, the statistical consequences of these policies were known and suffered by professionals and users. The report only finds them. They were and are the health professionals, public employees and the educational community who with their efforts, dedication and professionalism maintained and maintained the services in those areas I mentioned earlier. Staff and media cuts condemning precariousness, and precariousness also manifested in the insolvency of citizens' complaints in their own areas — corresponding councils — and forcing claimants to address the People's Valedor for answers. I have a third question to ask, as I synthesized at the beginning of my intervention. We have already talked about the increase in claims, we have already talked about the increase in plea cases, and the third question I raised has to do with the means in which the claimants live. According to the People's Valador report, in 2016 the urban environment is 99.9 % of the claims, and the rural environment is 0,1 % of the claims. I am sure that the report will actually collect the number of complaints and complaints from rural areas. As I am also sure that we are all aware that the reality of rural life, in rights, gives to many more claimants and matters than that 0.1%; in no case does it seem to reflect 90% of the territory of Greece and 40% of the population it lives in. Reasons and arguments are sufficient, just generically. The rural neighbours are affected by exactly the same problems posed in the urban environment, and even more. But besides, the rural neighbours have their own, singular and specific issues, without their rights in everyday practice. From the Socialist Group we believe that it is necessary to reflect on this reality which shows us the report and to promote actions, in that area, which provide the real opportunity to manifest their complaints and complaints, which are not admitted or recognised in their own areas, in front of the valuator. There is a real disconnection between rural and urban, between rural and non-local administrations, between rural and the People's Valedor; a disconnection that produces inequality of territory and people. I'm going to finish. The Valorative Lady has shown concern about unresolved issues, especially those that affect the most unprotected people because they are the most vulnerable: dependents, people with disabilities, indigent, children, children, older, sick, refugees... We share that concern as we share your appeal that there is much to improve, that there are many rights to protect, that there are many rights to recover and that there are many rights to grant. With that in mind, we ask for sensitivity, generosity and flexibility in accepting complaints and complaints; decision and perseverance in processing them; and firmness and consistency with institutions to preserve the rights of the Galicians and the Greeks. On that path you will find the Socialist Group. And don't forget, Valdador, that the People's Valedor is that bridge institution that allows citizens to regain rights in the face of the need to pay for them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u9	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u10	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Valorative lady of the people, I wanted to begin with a clear statement, and it's the defense she makes in Marea of the institution of the People's Valley. We understand the fundamental role that, in the face of the abuse of power, other institutions of democratic control of their own power, exercised by both Parliament and its Executive, so that it is essential for us that in a mature democracy, in an advanced democracy, there is an institution that has for the purpose control of the other powers which, with another kind of power, are exercising their functions in defence of fundamental rights, of public freedoms and of basic social rights. Therefore, it is clear to us that this institution must exist, it must function and it must function well, and it must be critical of the actions of the public authorities when it has to be. That's why, precisely, it's why on your day, and today solemnly in this House, we are asking for the resignation of the people's valet and we are asking for the House to reprobate it. And we understand that this is necessary because it is necessary to assert the dignity of the institution itself in its defense of fundamental rights, of public freedoms and of social rights, something that is collected in Article 6 of its own institution, of its own regulation of the organic status, the defense of those rights and of those public freedoms, and the social character that must have in relation to that defense which is not articulated. We have seen and have seen in this broad report a generalized praise of the public administration's actions, although almost 98% of the complaints filed — those 64,000 of which appear to be undervalued by those who have a collective character for not allegedly representing injury to fundamental rights and public freedoms or social rights — have occurred in the last year, and in which, of course, the autonomous public administration has a fundamental role, of which one does not realize. Institutions are criticized, measurements criticized, complaints criticized, or referred to, as if they were many times atmospheric phenomena that had no causality, when the fact is that the cause is quite clear. Because often, every time, relationships of inequality have social causes and political causes; and, therefore, it is possible to politically influence the causes of inequality to overcome and end them. So it's the function of an institution of control that denounces these acts of inequality and not simply — in the best of cases — its description. Many of these complaints that came in are acknowledged to have occurred as a result of the cuts. And so it is announced in some cases and so it is described, without making a political critique of what was the meaning of those cuts; cuts they had as a single and exclusive mission subject fundamental rights, public freedoms and social rights, economic interests, imposed for reasons other than the self-defence of citizenship. By consulting, and reporting in general terms, the most numerous complaints are those of the Council of Health and the Council of Social Policy, 27% and 19%. It's not random in a crisis context that was really a scam, a scam in which an economic system has perverted the defense of fundamental rights and public freedoms and what it doesn't realize here, or what the political power's acting in relation to that situation. None of these situations are noticed, no explanation is given. The income of the population of Greece is almost 21 points below the European Union average despite GDP growth. Because, yes, several times in the report it says, and it cheers itself, that we are already overcoming the economic crisis, that we are already recovering, but there is no reference to social data showing that, despite the recovery of GDP, there is no recovery of social rights, as has been done in recent years in this country. Complaints of their own motion also have an absolutely ridiculous significance in relation to the amount of investigations. Where's the voice of the voiceless from the institution of the People's Valley? Where goes the voice of the voiceless in resources for families in situations of poverty and exclusion, the voice of the voiceless in the case of labour protection, the voice of the voiceless in social deprotection, in the right to housing, in education, in health? Where does the voice of voiceless people go in the protection of autonomous people, the voice of voiceless people in the protection of legality by judgments won and not deliberately executed by the public authorities? The concrete actions in the field of energy poverty produce absolute redness, after recognizing the existence of 700,000 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in our country and being satisfied, as an institution, by the sole and exclusively care of 900 cases in 2016, after allocating the amount of EUR 600,000 and just spending 200,000, devoting the rest of the money to illuminating the Gaiás; money intended to alleviate the energy poverty that were intended to illuminate the City of Culture's mausoleum, when they could have been destined to alleviate energy poverty. We have a President of the Union who says that there was probably not that difficulty of energy poverty that we had originally planned. Oh, no! And then the 700,000 people are being cared for? What does the People's Valley institution do to enforce the rights of these voiceless people, those people who haven't been asking for help because they had to be asked by telematics and they didn't have telematics in their homes? In order to attend demonstrations of poverty, it was necessary to have manifestations of wealth in the homes. The establishment of administrative conditions that prevent access to benefits is a deliberate political action by the public authorities that has to be denounced by the institution of the People's Valedor, because they put conditions that are impossible to comply with, because people who are in that objective situation of exclusion — and, above all, people who are seen in situations of severe material deprivation — do not have access to those means, surely nor do they know that they exist. And for that, there is a need for means to fill out that impossibility of access, which the public administrations have to take into account, and of which Valedoria has to account for the complaint. Because it's not a random situation, it's a situation deliberately sought by the Administration not to spend that money and then use it to illuminate Gaiás, which is much more needed than to care for energy-poor homes. As far as social assistance is concerned, something else happens. It is recognized that no further help is given because Law 10/2013 is not legally developed. It is not developed legally and therefore the benefit is not effective. Why isn't it effective? Because it's not developed. And who's responsible for developing it? The Executive, who has regulatory power. Where are you not reporting the complaint of that absence? Because it's not from now on, it's from 2013 and we're in 2017. It has been announced that yes, oh!, which is imminent, they have already told us that development will take place imminently... where is the imminence four years later, acknowledging that this involves deprivation of rights to people who need it most? Did you go to the Social Policy Council to ensure the perception of risk in these cases of people...? And what about the rulings that are being won in relation to the people who live with whom the very structuring of the rule prevents access? Is something going on? Not at all. The scarcity of personal means is also a constant, a constant to which no attention has been paid. In the area of minors, is Valdora planning to update the 2007 report on deprotection of minors or to require the detailed report to the Social Policy Council? In prisons, complaints about the prison administration do not provide any solutions, such as reprimanding the authorities, or asking them to increase staff, or even to address the competent administration to address the other in correspondence. In mental health, Valadora minimizes the serious state of mental health in our country. As the Galego Mental Health Defense Movement points out, you are already aware of one of our most important concerns: concerns about the situation in which people who have been outsourced, which then many of them, because they cannot be adequately cared for by being outsourced, give rise to tragic outcomes, such as the case of Mondoñedo. Where was the political denunciation of the People's Valley in the face of these situations? And regrettable is the action and statements of the People's Valedora in the case of the homeless people of Santiago de Compostela, in which they referred to the need for incapacitating them and submitting them to treatment, as if the civil action of declaration of disability was the desirability for solving a social problem. And if so, do I set up the Administration or Valdoria the necessary management to proceed with disability, for example by urging the Prosecutor's Office? You didn't do one thing or the other. He spoke about the rights of LGTBI, but we didn't hear him complain about the advertising campaign against the recognition of gender diversity, which occurred within the centers. And he said that a complaint could not be made because he was waiting for the administration's own report on this. Is there a need for a report to know that information or that the apology of transphobia, like homophobia, within public education centres is not constitutionally admissible? Is a report needed from the Education Council — by the way, it is the least closely associated with the People's Valedory, in which we agree, that is the part of the report on which we agree most; but do we fail to exercise Article 22 of the institution itself to rebuke for the hostile nature of the council itself? No, no, no, no. In public and internal employment, an increase of 22% of the claims in this sense, and without at any time an assessment of the causes of this increase is made, and the silence dwindling of the Public Administration, which is indeed a resource that must be completely limited and heeded, but often personal means are lacking to meet that in time, apart from instructions that the Administration can give to resolve by administrative silence. Where is the political denunciation of that situation going? The area of housing and evictions: "Unfortunately," said the report, "the economy of some homes continues to resent the impact of the economic crisis, although it is appreciated — it is judged by the figures recorded during this exercise — some recovery. In recent years we have been observing that the Autonomic Administration has fully exercised its role as guarantor of the rights of citizenship." General Council of the Judiciary — 2016, official data —: 2,432 releases; 7 families a day lost their homes in Galicia in 2016. Is this the complete and good exercise of functions by the self-government? If reference is made to the last years, in 2015 there were 2,519 releases. Is this a fully satisfactory protection of the rights of citizenship? This is shameful as a political assessment of the People's Valley report on the situation that many desperate families live and that they lose their homes in our country. It's not acceptable. [[Applause]] And it's not true that Valedora can't do anything about banks, it's not true, because banks obey certain regulations of a legal nature and you can insist on changing the rules.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u12	You can insist on changing the status of the law. The law is not worth anything but fundamental rights, it is necessary for the law to respect fundamental rights, it is necessary for the law to pursue fundamental rights, it is necessary for the royal decrees to pursue the realization of the basic rights of citizenship. I'm not saying it, Krüger said it, as you remember. And the ineffectiveness of the conventions, the ineffectiveness of regulatory developments, the ineffectiveness of money-free administrative developments... where is all this going? How often does it refer here to a weighting between fundamental rights and economic adjustment and financial balance? That is the trap, the amendment of Article 135 of the Constitution, which establishes a principle of weighting at the time of constitutional goods...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u14	equipping the payment of debt to the realization of fundamental rights that compromise in some cases even the lives of people. How can we equate as goods, as valuable goods, as axiological, identical principles, Article 135 and Article 15 of the Constitution, the right to life and the payment of debt!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u15	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u16	How we can subordinate people's rights to the payment of debt! I'm going to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u17	No, it's over now. Look at the watch, look at the watch, please. It's over. It's over, Mr. Villares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u18	I've spent my time denouncing only, in the field of health, the total neglect of fundamental rights derived from the right to health, which compromise the right to life, which compromise people's ability to receive unique and exclusively for economic reasons, compromising their health and their life.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u19	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Time's up. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I want to welcome Mrs. Valedora of the People and her team, who are accompanying her today, and thank her for her presence and for explaining the intense work that has been carried out by the institution she represents in 2016. As we have already stated to you in your presence in the Committee on Petitions, we would especially like to thank you for focusing on people rather than on the figures representing complaints or complaints, because there are certainly people behind each statistics, people who suffer, people who have a problem that causes them trouble. Among all of us, we have to be able to solve these strains of the system and achieve quality services that affect citizenship, because we will only move forward if we respond to the needs of society. You represent, Mrs. Valedora, a control institution in Galicia that we reinforced in times of crisis. While in other autonomous communities without institutional control bodies, in Galicia we decided to change the Law of the Board of Auditors, the Law of the Advisory Council and the Law of the People's Valedor, to strengthen them and give them more control capacity. Proof of the development of this regulation is the launch of the Commissioner for Transparency of Galicia, as you have just informed us. And for us to increase the resources of transparency is fundamental, because it is a mechanism that improves the quality of democracy, where we believe and how we feel committed to its maintenance, we deeply respect the values it represents. And thanks to that, today we attend an appearance in which it becomes evident that our society trusts in this institution and comes to it when it has the perception that another institution is not fulfilling its obligations or violating some right. From the People's Parliamentary Group we agree with you, Mrs Valedora, that concern over matters is determined by the deprotection of the people affected more than by the number of people affected. Here we can talk about the concern that Vigo's population felt about the transfer of the Mexoeiro Hospital to Cunqueiro Álvaro, which was what most complaints sparked in 2016 — specifically 50,042—. And we must point out, ladies and gentlemen, that it was neither the cuts nor the malfunction of public health, as some have wrongly stated. Mr. Rivas said collective complaints don't get solutions. Well, I'm telling you, in the case of the Mexoeiro Hospital, it still works as a hospital complex, the difference from what happened at other times. For example, in Santiago we have the hospital in Galeras, which today is still in ruins. That is the conclusion that we have to draw from the recommendations, the complaints and the mobilization of citizenship because it makes serious and democratic governments react. And as far as other administrations are concerned — because we are only talking about autonomy here — there are also recommendations and complaints received from the local level. For example, the municipality that most complaints received was the Vigo Town Hall, with 216 complaints. And, among the deputies, there is the Deputy of Pontevedra, with 44 complaints, opposite the 13th of the Coruña, 5th of Lugo and 9th of Ourense. And also the Pontevedra Town Hall received 22 complaints. So we can verify, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a range of political colors in the administrations on which complaints have been processed and which the institution has made recommendations to them. But if more complaints were received, was the autonomous administration, ruled by the People's Party, in the logic of populism, should we have applied for the resignation of the valet? No, ladies and gentlemen, we trust democracy, and democracy is purer if we keep control bodies, even if we don't like what they tell us. That's what we let others do: get out of the way everything that bothers them, what they say they don't want to hear, what they tell them what they're doing wrong and what they have to fix. And also, in the context of complaints that the institution could not resolve for some of the three reasons that produce a negative result — due to lack of competence, because the required administration did not accept its recommendations or, by accepting them, it did not correct the situation — we want to take a reflection. It is surprising to see that, despite having no competence to intervene in a matter of abusive practices on the part of a bank, it responds to the institution of control and accepts its recommendations even though it is not obliged to respond and much less to accept its recommendations, and yet an administration, as it is a municipality, ignores the institution, as is the case with the Council of Santiago. And I'm talking about the Town Hall of Santiago because it leads the ranking of times that it was required by Valadora to provide help and collaboration with the institution, no less than 19 times, for not meeting the requirements; followed by the Vigo Town Hall, 18 times. The following municipalities that are reiterated by the request for collaboration are between 4 and 2 times. The difference, at least, is significant. There is therefore a duty to collaborate with the administrations with the Valedor in their actions. And there were several administrations that were given numerous reminders of legal duties and warnings, demanding respect for legality, both to the autonomous administration and to different municipalities of different political colors. But only one came out in the media with the potato and the little boy's scream: the mayor of Santiago — seconded by you, Mr. Villares, the postman of Noriega. We had hoped for you a little more political height, given its institutional origin, and that it had not lowered its level, as we have just seen in its intervention. When someone is critical of you -- whether you're a journalist, be a politician, be an independent institution -- you respond to a personal attack. [[Applause]] It seems a lie, Mr. Villares, to come from a judge who represents democratic justice. Look, as you like to read articles, I'm going to read article 1 of the institution, and say, "The Valedor of the People is the high commissioner of the Galician Parliament for the defence, in the territorial area of the Autonomous Community, of the fundamental rights and public freedoms recognized in the Constitution and for the exercise of the other functions this law assigns you." Not to make political criticism, which is our work, that of the parliamentary groups, not that of the institution. If you want control institutions to make politics, that's your way of doing politics. We don't want the control institutions to act politically, we want them to remain independent, as they are so far.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u21	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the new policy, which says that the laws that they do not like will not comply with, which says that they will fix bridges to improve the dignity of those who live under them, that it withdraws subsidies from third sector entities, that so good work has been doing for years helping those who need it most, where the administration cannot reach, which says that judges are referees bought when they are investigated, that it increases the price of school eaters, that it increases taxes regardless of whether they affect rich or poor, that it does not admit criticism because they were born to criticize and not to be criticized. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there are certain issues with which no politics can be done. And so, if Junta has an empty housing program for those who have no voice, to attend to people who have difficulty finding a housing, there's no reason for any municipality to deny their adherence to that program. General interest must always prevail over party interest. Just as in the attention of the dependency, which cannot be made available to the Councils for thousands of hours of care and assistance in the home and which, because of the mismanagement of the municipalities, those hours are left unearned to the citizens. It can't be that the head office of a mayor prevents citizens of a city from being able to benefit from the advantages of metropolitan transport. It can't be that the Board is prepared to carry out... but, look, sir... if you want to be the spokesman, you've already appointed a spokesman. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I fought between you, but don't interrupt. Don't interrupt me! [[Applause]] The truth is that respect and dignity for those who appeal to some... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u23	Mrs. Prado is right. I'm sorry, Mrs. Prado. He's just right. You're always interrupting, Mr. Sánchez. And this doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u24	Of course, they don't like it, but you have to listen. It can't be that there are political parties that defend the policies of rulers like Venezuela while there are Greeks and Greeks that can't pay their pensions and are at the edge of poverty, because they can't perceive any other help. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We also hope, dear lady, that you will be able to sensitize the municipalities so that they can put in place the appropriate corrective measures in the area of noise, as we must be able to reconcile nighttime leisure and the rest of our neighbours. And also in areas as sensitive as health and education, we hope that they will accept their recommendations, because in Spain in general — and in Galicia, in particular — we enjoy an enviable, first-rate health system, and complaints cannot hinder a magnificent public health service like the Welsh one. Mr. Lopez was talking about the number of complaints. And one thing is the number of complaints and another thing is the number of people who claim, because it coincides with the fact that the same complaint may involve a multitude of claimants, as happened to the Hospital Mexeiro, or the transfer of 112. You said there are 69 complaints more than the previous year —69 —. But if we look a little back, it's 46 more than in 2014 and 390 complaints less than in 2013. It's a matter of time, Mr. López. If we talk about claimants, of course, there are 50,000 people who have claimed — Mr President, this is the case.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u25	Mrs. Prado, it's Fernández, not López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u26	Oh, sorry, Mr. Fernández. Finished, Your Honor. We remain with the institution of the People's Valedor as a useful, necessary institution and whose performance brings about an improvement in the provision of public services and in the defence of the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. From the People's Parliamentary Group we would like to congratulate the honourable Member on the launch of the Commissioner for Transparency of Galicia, on his achievements, on the changes made through the recommendations made by the institution you represent and which makes the Self-Government now provide better quality services to citizens, which is ultimately what we all seek and which we all hope for. And, if not, dear lady, don't lose breath in the face of those situations that have not been fixed yet today and that, with proper insistence and follow-up, we can see them corrected as soon as possible. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. We continue with point 2 of the agenda, which corresponds to appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Director of Infrastructure and Housing, on his own request, to report on the lines and programs for the rehabilitation of housing that will drive the Union of Galicia throughout the current legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u28	To formulate the appearance, you have the word of the Infrastructure and Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u29	Thank you, President. I compare on my own request today to outline the main lines of action on rehabilitation that we are going to promote in this legislation by the Galician Union, aware that rehabilitation and urban renewal involve a lower occupation of the territory, a lower consumption of natural resources and a greater use of the existing housing park as well. Convinced that this is the new way that families have to understand their economy and the necessary rationalization of the occupation of the territory, this demands that rehabilitation occupy a prominent place in Galicia's public policies on housing. That's how we understand it in the German Government already in the previous legislation and that's why we approved the RehaVIta Plan 2015-2020, a plan that I had the opportunity and expose here once approved in the Galician Union and on which we set as a great goal to facilitate access to housing by betting decisively on the conservation and recovery of the built heritage. In the RehaVIta Plan we want to give you special role in rehabilitation, and that's why two of its four axes are aimed at housing rehabilitation and urban renewal, including specific isolated rehabilitation programs, direct rehabilitation by the Galician Union, and also one of the most significant and relevant figures, which are the " integral rehabilitation areas." The lines of this RehaVIta Plan are practically running. I can confirm that there is a remarkable success, taking into account the investment figures and the beneficiaries of these measures and this plan. If we talk about the impact and importance on rehabilitation programs in 2016, of course, let me start, firstly, with the areas of integral rehabilitation, which we are giving them a great boost, a special boost. Since 2009, 25 new areas of integral rehabilitation have been declared, including the Santiago Road Rehabilitation Area, which includes 107 municipalities. And so today Galicia has 70 declared rehabilitation areas. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, this is a program of help to make it easier for owners, for families who have housing, for the rehabilitation of their homes and for the municipalities to also perform urbanization and humanization actions in their surroundings. In 2016 it was 7.5 million euros that we were destined for the areas of integral rehabilitation, and therefore we were able to allow ourselves to act in about 1,000 homes. Only with regard to the Road Housing Programme — which are the areas for the Santiago Road — are 360 rehabilitation aids in 2016. And in 2016 we also dedicated 5 million euros to financing the rehabilitation of housing in rural areas and in historical settings, and allowed them to act in practically 1,000 homes — and therefore to help 1,000 families. Another million euros went to help the owners communities, which allowed us to act in 620 homes. There were another 200 families who benefited from various rehabilitation aid for buildings and housing, as well as infra-inhabitation programmes in rural areas. And also, of course, in the area of public housing there were almost 900 families — who live in public housing in rent schemes — who saw that the Board acted for the repairs in those homes and therefore saw that it was in the field of rehabilitation. The Union has allocated EUR 1.2 million for these homes — for these 900 public homes — to help 900 families. And, of course, that effort that we made last year from the Government of Galicia has been a special performance in public housing, because we act in 1 out of every 3 homes in the public housing park in rent. So with these figures in hand I think I can claim that the balance sheets of all the housing rehabilitation programs last year had a very satisfactory result. In 2016, Junta sent direct action aid in the area of rehabilitation, which amounted to EUR 17 million and thus enabled nearly 3,700 families to help, also generating an induced investment of about EUR 40 million. Data that implies, of course, a revolution to move forward, that encourages us to continue working on this line and to continue to deepen and promote rehabilitation measures and, of course, to create new measures and new initiatives in the field of rehabilitation. We bet for redouble efforts. As I said, rehabilitations are considered to be an efficient, sustainable and future solution. And, therefore, we are betting on rehabilitation to create homes for families and also to reduce the impact on our territory. We also know its direct impact on the improvement in the quality of life of the Welsh people who live in the neighborhoods and areas where urban regeneration performances are carried out. And we also know that rehabilitation also acts as an important dynamiser of activity and also of employment, because, as you know, rehabilitation is the activity that most jobs generate per euro invested. We are also aware that the conservation and recovery of the built heritage, beyond opening new opportunities for access to housing, providing citizens with the most suitable surroundings and also contributing to economic reactivation, have a far more extensive reach: revitalizing towns, revitalizing cities, giving them life to emblematic neighborhoods and thus attracting more tourists and also putting in value that architectural heritage that we have, which is really Galicia's cultural identity. So in this legislation we have formulated the Global Strategy for Rehabilitation, which is already reflected in the 2017 budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that in the budgets this year, of 2017, of the Council, we gave a strong boost to housing, which has already accumulated four consecutive years of increments, but this year 2017 I assumed an increase of 8%, if we focus on investment chapters; games that place rehabilitation instead of more than 29 million euros — which means an increase, in terms of rehabilitation, of 19% compared to the previous year. [[Applause]] And to what we have to add the 10 million euros that we are dedicated to the Cooperation Fund, which, by its singularity, is not in the original credit of the budgets, but, of course, is a credit generated in the budgets this year. So, 40 million euros, practically, to devote this year to rehabilitation, and not only to continue with the new programs that confirmed their effectiveness, but also to create new programs, which we are planning to arrive, of course -- that is our goal -- to more families to facilitate access to housing. In this way, as I said, the areas of integral rehabilitation -pioneer Galicia in this matter, and it remains a reference - will remain a key tool in this legislation and this year 2017. This year, 12 million euros, and therefore 30% more for those areas of integral rehabilitation with respect to the previous year, which, as I said, Galicia currently has 70 areas, two, by the way, declared, within a few months of starting this new legislation, that of Recimil, Ferrol, and that of Caldas de Reis. Our goal is to continue to promote declaration of areas of integral rehabilitation and therefore the most emblematic, in which we are working intensively, is that of the Natural Park of the Atlantic Islands, with the aim of facilitating the rehabilitation actions in the housing in Ons. [[Applause]] As for public promotion housing rehabilitation programmes this year 2017, we are destined for direct actions by the Galego Institute of Housing and Only 1.4 million euros, and also aid to communities of public promotion housing owners, to which we will allocate one million euros. We must point out, for example, that a week ago, on 18 April, in the wake of this program, we have already auctioned the works of repairing new dwellings in Ferrol, of public promotion, - 142,000 euros - and last 10 April we also bid the works of repair of 8 new dwellings in Coruña. As for the building rehabilitation issue this year 2017, 2.7 million euros are the ones we have allocated to subsidies from collective residential buildings, thus generating an induced investment of 8 million euros, whose call we will publish in the coming weeks. Also in the coming days, more calls; we will call the aid of the Specific Programme for Rural Housing in historical sets, for the completion of facades and covers, 1.5 million euros; in the coming days we will bid this call. For the rural infra-vival rehabilitation grant line, half a million euros, which will be published in the coming days. And you also help the owners to obtain the building assessment report, EUR 800,000; a report necessary and indispensable to access these public aid. Let me also talk about the Rexurbe program, a program that brings together the direct rehabilitation works by the Galician Union, to which we are going to devote this year 3.5 million euros, therefore four times as much as expected in 2016. That of course will allow us to give new impetus to rehabilitation actions in historic areas, in emblematic areas such as Betanzos, Ourenses, Mondoñedo and also in Tinería, Lugo. [[Applause]] At Betanzos we're about to assist with new rehabilitation actions in the historical helmet. In Ourense last week, we started the rehabilitation works of two houses on Villar Street, and about - in any case, before summer - we will bid for two more homes to continue rehabilitating in the historical quarter. In Mondoñedo, we'll bid tomorrow and we'll start hiring two houses in the mill square. And in Tinería, in Lugo, tomorrow too, we will bid for the performances corresponding to five rehabilitation actions with an amount of more than 800,000 euros. In addition, to promote and facilitate all these actions, we're going to launch Rexurbe centres, offices for the impulse of rehabilitation and urban regeneration that have a particularly social and also dynamizing character. Of course I can't forget the old Vigo helmet, where 90% of the participation is from the Galician Union, where we will continue with rehabilitation actions, and this year, in 2017, two million euros to continue recovering immovables and also betting for rehabilitation in the old Vigo helmet. Your Honor, as far as new programs are concerned, it is important to stress that aid is already being activated to improve energy efficiency; new programs that we started this year 2017 and a new line of work that allows municipalities to perform live performances of their property and facilitate direct intervention by the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo in public promotion housing. In the first case, city council aid was activated last January 25 with 500,000 euros. The deadline for submission of applications ended on 26 March, and we are assessing the requests to grant these grants, which will allow us to grant up to 80% of the protective budget. On the other hand, within the framework of this programme, from the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo we will commit direct rehabilitation actions in the field of energy efficiency in public promotion housing built by this agency and, for the time being, they have already bided and evaluated actions to improve energy efficiency in three housing groups in Santiago. In total, we act in 116 homes: 70 in Belvís, 21 in Cancelas-Mallou and 25 in Ponte Pereda. Also last week, as we are continuing and starting contracts this year, energy efficiency improvements in public promotion housing in Melide, also in public promotion housing in Méndez Pelayo, in Vigo and in 45 homes in Becerreá as well. And over the next few months we'll also bid performances, to add to the bidders, in Melide, in Sardinia and Pontevedra, specifically in Monteporreiro. On the other hand, we also want to promote the rehabilitation of the old homes of the teachers; houses and dwellings existing in many areas of Galicia, mainly in rural areas, because of course we will pay attention and we are paying special attention to rural areas. In the second half of this year, we're going to activate these aids so that the municipalities can access them and rehabilitate these old masters' dwellings in order to recover that heritage built in disuse. It's EUR 400,000 that we're going to rehabilitate old masters' homes. And, ladies and gentlemen, we also have a new measure, a new social measure, which is the ReHaluga, a new program from Galicia. They are aids for the rehabilitation of housing for social rent. The goal is to encourage the empty housing program. In exchange for this help, the owner undertakes to incorporate his housing into the empty housing program, i.e. to create a social housing bag from an unoccupied housing set. [[Applause]] As you know, there are already 41 municipalities incorporated, and we want to encourage this empty housing program. This new ReHaluga program will allow us to reduce the number of homes in poor condition and, of course, most important, respond to the needs of families in difficult housing situations. The call for aid will also be published shortly, in the coming days, and will be provided with EUR 200,000, as well as with new measures and new initiatives. We are moving forward in the Leniency Grants Programme to individuals, which is also enhanced interests, which will allow for the renewal of households to be carried out. Last March 3 - advancing in this last line I have just commented on - we have signed with four financial entities a partnership agreement to encourage funding for the rehabilitation of housing buildings; an agreement in which Junta makes loans for zero interest available to individuals for those families with up to four times the IPREM. A home with three members, whose income is less than EUR 37,400 per year, will therefore have interest-free loans. It is therefore a new social measure in the field of rehabilitation. In this year's call, scheduled for next May, we will devote to this new measure EUR 500,000, which we believe will generate an induced investment for this year of EUR 9 million, and for the period 2017-2020 the aid will reach EUR 10 million, with which we expect a total volume of loans of around EUR 180 million. So we estimate that we can benefit more than 6,000 Greek families. In the coming weeks we will also activate a new call, the Town Council Cooperation Fund, a programme for these municipalities of less than 50,000 inhabitants; loans to the municipalities to zero interest in the purpose of recovering these buildings from their historic helmets or other rehabilitation interventions. From the Cooperation Fund - also a new rehabilitation measure - you will be able to finance actions promoted by the municipalities in the development of their competences that entitle them to urban legislation, rehabilitation works and urban regeneration carried out by the Council within their own municipal policies or also the acquisition of real estate for their subsequent rehabilitation. With this fund, which is equipped with EUR 10 million, the counties will be returned by the municipalities to form part of this cooperation fund again. In total, ladies and gentlemen, and summarizing this whole battery of initiatives, it is estimated that the set of aids and programmes of the Galician Union to be allocated in 2017 represents a total investment of 40 million euros, which will benefit 6,300 families, and which will generate an induced investment in 2017 of 58 million euros. Therefore, a package of quantitative measures, an ambitious package of measures to reach many more families, with new initiatives and with the reinforcement of existing measures in the past legislation. And a strategy of Welsh rehabilitation, where we've made progress on our way. In a few weeks, this rehabilitation strategy will be fully developed, having published most of the aid orders and having bidd out many initiatives, much of them planned for this year 2017; a rehabilitation strategy that will be enriched with other instruments, other tools that are also new, such as the XIS energy efficiency, to facilitate and improve the energy rehabilitation actions, and also with another important tool, which is the Vivenda Observatory, which we will create this year, to facilitate access to information and knowledge on housing and to support decision-making in the public domain and also on rehabilitation; an observatory that will facilitate the knowledge of Galician residential real estate market and of the needs and actions for rehabilitation by public administrations, by social agents and by all citizens. And perhaps the most important thing is that we will create a new regulatory instrument, which is Galicia's Rehabilitation Act, in which we are already working together with the Directorate-General of Heritage from the first day and the first minute in which we form government, whose main task is to boost and accelerate the actions in the field of urban rehabilitation and renewal, with particular attention to historical helmets. Facilitating private interventions and coordinating public policies is our goal. It's about enabling a policy instrument to meet the needs of local and residential action, improve infrastructure services, meet mobility demands and promote efficiency and use of renewable energy. This law provides for the implementation of feasibility and diagnosis plans and coordination measures, administrative simplification and also financing measures. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the wager of this Greek government for rehabilitation is clear. We will make an important effort in the area of rehabilitation, with substantial resources, promoting new measures, new work lines, new funding programmes that also favour and facilitate rehabilitation in Galicia, both by the Galician Union and by other administrations as well as private promoters and also by owners of real estate. With this rehabilitation strategy, we seek to maximize the benefits of citizens with actions in their homes that result in an improvement in the quality of life. We are also committed to the community as a whole by the recovery of neighborhoods and historic assemblies of our towns, our cities, which contribute to giving them life and also contribute to their social and economic dynamization, and also, with maximum regard to the environment, to the rationalization of the occupation of the territory and also to the recovery of the built heritage. A bet on rehabilitation which is a way to build Galicia, to work for a better Galicia, recovering emblematic areas from our cities and rehabilitating rural nuclei to create identity in Galicia. In this first intervention I tried to tell what the main axes of the Council are in this legislation on rehabilitation, the main action programmes and the forecasts we have. In any case, I will try in the following interventions to deepen in some case more or at some specific points that you consider. So, at your disposal to clarify, to complete any question or proposal you make; of course, I will pay the utmost attention to the suggestions and proposals that you all make. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u30	Thank you very much, Counselor. We now begin the round of parliamentary groups. Mr Bará Torres has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u31	Good morning. The truth is, Counselor, that it was a little disappointing to his intervention, because he did not actually make any new announcements, or very few. Most of his intervention was limited to repeating questions which he has already dealt with in his appearance of budgets and also in his appearance here at the plenary; therefore, there are few news. And the proof that there's little news and little enthusiasm is that he didn't wake up too much enthusiasm on the popular bench, even with those applauses a little disappointed and forced. The truth is, there wasn't a very good connection on his part, or at least there wasn't a lot of answers on the part of his colleagues and colleagues. I remain, as the principal announcement of his intervention, with the rehabilitation of the old houses of teachers in the countryside, which will be convened in the second half, with a count of 400,000 euros. I'm not saying it's not a matter of relevance to the recovery of these dwellings, but it seems to me a little ambitious and short-lived question, because most of the rest of the issues you've been talking about are -- I say -- repetition or explanation of lines that most of them have already developed. But, well, I think, in this case and in this matter, it would be good to make a little memory, a little history; history never comes wrong. You don't know where I was in 1997, I don't know if I was a militant from the People's Party at that time or was it later. I guess it would be... eh? [[Madam Infrastructure & Housing Advisor, Vázquez Mourelle, utters words that are not perceived.]] I was studying in... Is he finished his career? [[Madam Infrastructure & Housing Advisor, Vázquez Mourelle, utters words that are not perceived.]] All right. Indeed, in 1997, the liberalizing measures on soil have been approved - I do not know how to remember - by ruling the People's Party of the famous President, Mr Aznar. [[Murmurs.]] You remember the lords of the People's Party, don't you? Well, from that moment on, there came the boom and the real estate bubble, which then had the consequences we already know, with the worsening banking crisis. You don't like history, do you? Well, the reality is that this phenomenon — I don't mean Mr Aznar or Mr Rat, of what we're going to talk about later — has caused... No, it's not to... I said Castealo: "Don't laugh, the story is sad." [[Murmurs.]] Indeed, the story is sad because it led to a real social drama, hundreds of thousands of people who lost their homes, who lost their wages, who lost their rights. That is the recent history of this state and this country, which we must remember here, and which has led to a multi-millionaire ransom, with billions of euros from the bank at the cost of all this suffering, of all that social tragedy. And do you know who was the artificer of all those expanding policies and of...? Such a Mr. Rodrigo Rato, of what Emilio Botín said: "Rato, the best minister of democracy." And of what Mrs. Cospedal said, "I only have praise for Mouse." And of what Mr Aznar said: "Rodrigo Rato has long been the best minister of economy and finance of Spanish democracy." And also Mr. Rajoy, logically, spoke of Mr. Rato: "I'm going to make a policy" — he said in 2004 — economically as Rodrigo Rato did in Spain for eight years." And then he said later: "I think Rodrigo Rato would be an extraordinary president of Caja Madrid," — a visionary man, wouldn't he? — "and if someone doesn't believe it, let him say so, because to see who can put a stick to a person with a trajectory in the economic sphere like that of Mr. Rato." Well, we know that it happened to those governments of Mr Aznar from the years 1996-2000 and 2000-2004, the records that have to be charged, prosecutions and convictions, where some of these ministers are at this moment and we also know what is happening to the People's Party in recent times with regard to these issues. And the consequences also come here because the dangerous friendships of Mr Feijóo, who has shared or shared, over the years, the seat on the executive committee of the People's Party with this whole line of prominent leaders and rulers who are being charged and prosecuted for their corrupt policies. And this is also the case of Villar Mir, who touches us here, who has just begun, with such intimate and intense relations with the People's Party in the field of funding and who is awaiting transcendental decisions of the Galician Union. We will be attentive to all those issues. Well, the reality is that "of those dusts, these muds," or, more than muds, the stinking smell of the corruption that surrounds and grows around and within the People's Party. I suppose they'll be ashamed of all these issues, because the other day a member of the People's Party said that he was very happy with all the news that they were leaving charges and arrests. I suppose, deep down, deep in your heart, Counselor, you will feel ashamed of all this reality. And all this has a lot to do with housing, indeed, has a lot to do with housing policy, economic policy, social policy, housing policy that has been done in recent decades and has led to that situation. And now, in fact, they tell us about rehabilitation, but we have to talk about and contextualize rehabilitation policy in a more global context of lack of comprehensive housing policy. You are what they do are partial measures, limited measures, isolated measures, inconsequential measures and that in many cases are nothing more and nothing less than a response to situations of emergency, specific situations, social pressure, but they do not really go to the root of the problem, to guarantee the right to housing, to solve the dramatic situation that has hundreds of thousands of people in our country and that is caused by an economic model based on speculation, an essentially unfair and corrupt model that has led to impoverishment, policing and theft of income and rights of many people, and at high prices; human costs, social costs and economic costs, because among other matters it has cost the public era more than 60 billion euros of help to the bank. This has also led to an excessive increase in the public deficit, indebtedness to public administrations, and thus to the availability of less resources to be able to allocate them to social policies, including housing policies. And, of course, you're talking to us here about the 2015-2020 and the RehaVita Plan with a clear triumphalism in its manifestations, and the reality is that balance is not for so much triumphalism, because we're seeing as a delay, a low execution of proposed measures and budgets and therefore it's not for so much triumphalism. There is a failure, as there is a failure in the State Housing Plan 2013-2016. I won't remind you here when the conventions were signed, when the summons were launched, and why the Government of the State had to extend the deadline for 2017 when many of the actions planned there are not yet executed. The plan had to be extended for another year. We're looking forward to knowing what the new state housing plan will be for the years 2017-2020. So what we ask you here is a plan, a real shock plan, with structural measures, that will change the regulatory framework to ensure housing as a right and to promote public intervention in the housing market. We have a tool there that can be effective as, for example, the entire public park of the housing that is owned by Sareb; these housing could be mobilized. It's hundreds of thousands of homes that could be mobilized for rent in Galicia too and prevent Sareb from working like a public real estate speculating with housing that has been policeed to people who have lost their jobs for a bad economic policy. It's also clear that we have to support rehabilitation, but, of course, what you did here was announcements of measures that have already been made, and very few new measures, so I don't quite understand the reason for this appearance. I don't know if it's a sort of order that they gave him or routine what they have to come here to tell us things, but to tell us things they've already told us twice, because we don't see much sense in him. As far as rehabilitation is concerned, you told us, for example, about Plan Rexurbe, and the truth is that it is here that you are going to make rehabilitations in three or four municipalities, for all the needs in the country and for all the promises you have made, because, of course, Plan Rexurbe, so I understand the explanations you gave in your public announcements, it means the purchase of buildings and their rehabilitation with public funds. And I don't give my bills because, of course, with 3.5 million euros a year, I don't know how you plan to get there, because the announcement they made was 500 buildings, 1,500 homes and 350 commercial sites. How are you going to do this in a legislate buying and rehabilitating all those buildings? That's because not to mention the criteria that follow, for example, you're going to decide which municipalities are part of the Rexurbe Plan, because we also see a certain bias... the other day in the press that the mayor of the girl - the famous mayor of the girl - had talked to the director of the IGVS to make also a Rexurbe plan there. I mean, I don't know what the criterion is. I don't know if you can explain to us later what's going to be the criterion for deciding which municipalities will be accommodated at Plan Rexurbe. And, of course, you spoke of Betanzos, and Betanzos is not, precisely, a good example of the good management of his counseling. You haven't been all this time, but it turns out that in Betanzos the Junta bought in 2011 nine buildings and are still unrehabilitated, and now they announce that they will rehabilitate for the year, between this year and 2017, 3 of those 9 buildings that they bought in 2011. The truth is that the results are quite poor, eh! and Betanzos is not a very good example of what you've been doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u33	Yes, I'm done. In any case, we, if you like, can also give you good examples of how it is rehabilitated, how urban helmets are recovered. We can talk to them about Allariz, we can talk to them about Pontevedra. There are many good examples, many good practices — not just governments of the BNG — that are, by the way, examples of efforts being made by the municipalities to rehabilitate, to recover, to gain population, to dynamize historical centers. And then you surprise us too with denomination changes. Counselor, in the previous appearance, they told us that I was going to make a law of historical helmets; now it's called Galician Rehabilitation Law; I don't know what it's going to be called at last, but I'd like it to be clear to me. So to finish, what we ask of you is less propaganda, less bot smoking, more realities, more facts and more rights, and we tell you today, above all, that it is April 25th: more rights for the people, who is the most orderly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u34	Thank you, Mrs Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. I want to begin by celebrating the presence of the Counsellor and her initiative to move here today from the general lines of action to this rehabilitation legislation. And I think it's very convenient for you to do it, since, Counselor, you know, last year wasn't exactly your best year. Of the 15.2 million budgeted for rehabilitation promotion, only 2.15 have been implemented, i.e. 15.8% of the planned budget; and not I say, it is here in the budget execution data of last year. Something, no doubt, has failed — and in a very narrow way — in its rehabilitation policy. [[Applause]] So let me tell you that, naive of me, I thought you came here today to explain this terrible result. And after your intervention, I'm clear that no, that you must even think it was all a success. Although they have increased the budget for this year — and it is true — to the detriment of the policy of access to housing, there is nothing of the experience of last year, Counsellor, that makes us think that the level of execution this year will be better, and less even if they do so by withdrawing funds and budgeting programs that, curiously, if they had a level of execution above 90%. Let us therefore have deep mistrust of the success of this new course, which we see totally unnerved. And on the other hand, in relation to what I'm currently exposed to in your intervention, the result of the execution of last 2016, I have to tell you not to take us by surprise. In a Galician rainy, its policy is like dew: neither spring nor shut up; that is, it serves as an excuse for selling umbrellas. The Greeks, Counselor, in terms of housing, we are hoping that solutions will rain, and that you, especially you, will get wet. But waving or poalling plans with such a low level of execution are not strategies that allow nothing to sprout and grow hard. Because the rehabilitation programs of his Counsellor proved in 2016 to be that: small drops of water in a tremendous drought, which, by shyness, evaporate before reaching the ground. I've already told you recently, Mrs Vázquez: it's not like we can't fail to see the existence of the plans that are in force or those that have been presented today and announced, but let's be clear: the figures that precede them, the success of their execution, condemn them to insignificance. We're talking about a policy that only accounts for 0.024% of the total budget of Galician Union. I, who are from science and I understand the numbers well, 0.024% is the same thing as the zero trend, and for those of letters, the zero trend is equal to nothing. [[Applause]] That's the importance of this government for rehabilitation policies, the demonstration that the headlines offered to the Greeks are that: headlines, but they don't translate into anything, Counsellor, into nothing. To understand this, let's look at the precedents of some of these plans. In the rural rehabilitation and housing programme on the Santiago Road, the departures planned for both areas within the 451 programme are lower than budgeted last year, 80% less in the case of rural housing and 60% less in the area of the Santiago Road. I suppose they've already realized, by success, that they're not plans that can give much more of themselves. And by analyzing these plans, you can see that they're resistance aids. And what do I mean by this? Well, they're designed for help that should be an incentive and an impulse to rehabilitation to become a difficult process to overcome, of pure resistance. Let's see how they work. The interim rating report is first requested; this takes two months. Then the project is completed, the permissions, the licenses are requested; the average processing time in Galicia for the management of a minor license -- let's put the case agiler -- is about two months. The work begins; let's set another month. They finish the works, demand the final qualification and wait for the resolution within two months. Well, for now we've been processing a file for seven months. And once the final rating has been resolved, we must wait for the publication in the Official Journal of Galicia of the next call for aid and submit the application in accordance with the standard model published in conjunction with the call. Let's put the case that this happens the following month when the works are finished and final qualification is completed; they are processed and then expected to confirm funds and grant them within a period of three months. In short, we are talking about that, in the case of a minor work, which can be a simple façade arrangement, eleven months, almost one year, is the time to wait to opt for a subsidy, in the case — I repeat — of a minor work, and in the best of cases. Because if we get into the processing times of a larger work, make it clear that times will go more than two years, probably three. So what I'm telling you here is the reality of the street, what's happening to the Greeks and the Greeks who decide to undertake a rehabilitation and are considering getting some help. And I say, with this picture, do you really believe that this aid plan serves the function of encouraging someone to undertake a rehabilitation that I didn't intend to undertake? I don't know about you, but the help, from which you have to be clear from the beginning that you can't depend on them, for that will be extraordinary aids, rewards for patience, but never incentives for promotion. I believe that this is a subject on which they should reflect and which they should address, even more so when it is demonstrated, by the figures of last year, that it has not been implemented — I repeat — more than 15.8% of the forecast, which speaks of the high susceptibility of improvement of the current plans and their approaches. Also point out, in reference to aid and consideration of subsidisable facts, how there are still ponds or empty ones that are still to be filled in the aid ear. I mean, in the case of those unique architectures of Galicia, that, despite being in the catalogues of municipal plan protections, they can't access help because they're not included in any specific rehabilitation area or they can't be considered as BIC. Therefore, their owners have constructions that actually have all the protections and restrictions on them, but without an option to help and encourage their proper conservation. And, back to the idea of promoting the rehabilitation of those dwellings that are in the Way of Santiago, in the Socialist Group, both aspects of rehabilitation are of interest to us: that which safeguards the conservation of heritage and which puts emphasis on improving the living conditions of the Greeks and the Greeks. And why do I comment on this? Because if the end is the improvement in the landscape of the different sections of Santiago Road, what do you intend to do, Mrs. Vázquez, with the percentage of housing that is empty and that doesn't come into these aids because you don't have the potential to be rented? What kind of recovery measures are they planning to address? It cannot be obvious that in many of these populations the loss of it is a fact evident, which makes it difficult to offer it as rent housing. I give you figures: only on the French Way around 40% of the built residential heritage are non-principal housing, about 31,900, and half of these, about 16,000, are empty. Similar figures are repeated in the municipalities by which the rest of the six traces of the Way pass. We have to add to this the fact that in Galicia there are about 51,500 non-principal dwellings in municipalities of less than 2,000 inhabitants and about 40% of these, too, about 21,000, are empty. The aid therefore leaves about 40% of rural housing and between 30% and 40% of those located on Santiago's roads. And the voids, which make up 20% of the total, are the ones that really should worry them. Obviously, they do not need help, but policies that, given all this built heritage, can attract population to these areas, which are clearly losing it year after year, which causes a dangerous exposure to heritage degradation. And tell me, Counsellor, what do you contribute to reactivating that rural, besides waiting for people to come out of nowhere, renting or occupying those homes? You promised infrastructures, more efficient transport services, better connections to the great Greek cores, improvements to network communications, more work opportunities, but for how long? Are they aware that every year of abandonment in rural areas increases the chances of loss of wealth? There is no better measure to preserve the heritage than to provide it with use, since it is the use that favors the natural maintenance of assets. The rest is to fall into museums and stone cardboard cities. At this point, allow me to approach slightly, before we finish, the theme of historical helmets. It is well known that there are serious difficulties in addressing effective rehabilitation in these areas. The intact conservation of the heritage is often prioritising above rational use and its own functionality. It is therefore necessary to draw up this new line of understanding — I hope that the Law on Historical Helmets will go on this line — which will enable us to facilitate and encourage rehabilitation, with autonomous guidelines for all historical helmets, which will soon allow the planning to bring the local singularities in each one. It is essential to address the issue in those municipalities that lack up-to-date planning, which makes it very difficult to run projects. The lack of adaptation of plans makes it difficult to comply with new constructive or functional solutions, which are required even by the technical code of the standards of living in Greece; housing which, by their particular nature, require exceptional reports, but which are not always achieved. I'll leave it here. For the moment, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u37	Good morning to all of you. Mr. President, I promise to stick to the issue. Many times, in order not to perform rehabilitation in time, we must proceed to demolition. When there is too long when structures become corrupt, there is a time when rehabilitation is no longer possible, much more if the structures that have been built were not made to be habitable, but were already badly done. The People's Party is not in time for rehabilitation, it must be demolished, because they are not isolated cases, gentlemen of the People's Party. It's a political instrument your party to serve the economic powers and you as a party live from the crumbs that give them these economic powers. [[Applause]] The spectacle, between disgusting and outrageous, that we are watching these days, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is nothing more than the image of many years of a party working in connection with those economic powers to give them favors and plunder the country. That's what you've worked for all these years. They're not isolated cases. They're ministers, they're relevant people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u38	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u39	...are presidents of certain autonomous communities, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u40	That's the point, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u41	They're not isolated cases. Rehabilitation is not possible, we must demolish, gentlemen of the People's Party. You're in time to come here and apologize, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u42	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u43	Counselor, I would begin, as Mr. Bará, saying that he had been disappointing, but it would be a lie; disappointing it would be if we expected something more than generalities and that literature. Of course, what would you have to do if you didn't come here to release generalities and literature? So start with why he told us about the implementation of the support program for the implementation of the building assessment report, implemented in the 2013-2016 State Housing Plan, which you signed in October 2014 and operated in 2015. That program for which it is fundamental, Counselor? To know the real and reliable state of the housing park, to have — as you said — data to support policies. You've recognized that you're making policies without having data to support them. If you come here to say something, say how that program goes, what results did that program, counselor lady, or what results or what questions you're going to observe to see the impact of the programs you came here to explain. You need to have indicators of how these programs work. He didn't come to say anything about it either. We have a particular country, which has certain characteristics of the housing park, which has to have specific policies, and you came here to announce basic housing policy issues. We're in the zero year of the housing rehabilitation policy practically, because you've come to announce a Vivenda Observatory to have data to support, to make decisions, a basic question to start working. What have you been doing since 2009, not going back? And a Rehabilitation Act, in 2017, when you came here to sell literature that they bet on rehabilitation and regeneration. We're starting with the most basic issues. And it's not part of a Galician government conviction; part of a European directive that transposes the state directive, the state government, to give funds to autonomous communities, and autonomous communities have to focus their policies on the side; it's not part of their conviction. In fact, in the State Plan signed in October 2014, and put into operation in 2015, when it is a plan of 2013-2016 — if you see your interest in housing—, you didn't put a weight like Galician Union for rehabilitation, everything was state funds — not a weight—. And I can give you examples of most autonomous communities as they supplemented with money from autonomous communities for rehabilitation policies; you, not a euro. But you do not prioritize rehabilitation policy, because to say that you would have to have an integral policy, as the spokesman of the Socialist Party explained — and very well — to you. They would have to have an integral policy, and we've already criticised their Land Law adopted in 2016, where the right of royalty to empty housing, the Urban Regeneration Program, the right to so much and retract and other fundamental issues for urban regeneration is not regulated. And if we see the Housing Law, eight rather poor articles in that sense; they don't have it regulated, they don't have a bet; on the contrary, the Land Law continues to insist on urban expansion and on the facilities for soil reclassification. And so if economic promoters can get more benefits from the reclassification of cheap soil, they won't act in the already built. That's a fundamental question, which is not a question of aid orders, it's a question of focus. If there is no restriction on that expansion, which, in addition, destroys itself with agronomic, landscaping and environmental skills, the recovery of the building will not be encouraged. And so are the historical helmets. You're talking about Betanzos. As you've been told here, great work is yours in the historic town of Betanzos. And it's not a priority, nor in the budgets, that you have reduced since you arrived in 2009, or, as you were told here, in the execution of the budgets. I brought here the state of execution on 31 December, fourth quarter — the socialist spokesman told him — there were definitive credits, 13 million euros; authorizations, 2 million euros, approximately; balance available on 31 December 2016, 11 million euros. I think that's 15% execution. Or in the General Account, programme 451A, for the promotion of rehabilitation: final credits, 23 million; net recognized obligations, 11 million; 48% enforcement. Systematically, in the years of Government Feijóo housing budgets present the indicators of least execution year after year, systematically do not run. And you come here to make autobombs and nothing else. It's also here from the countryside, and you come here to talk about the help of the Santiago Road, the help of the ARIs, etc. Look, they're very good at complementing those aids. It is true that, as has already been said here, less bureaucracy, more technical support and much more economic support are needed; it is very good. But, once again, we need a comprehensive policy. Because the main policy of rehabilitation and conservation of the built heritage is that people live in rural areas and live decently and have economic capacity to cope with the rehabilitation of housing. And so it happens, with the abandonment and aging of the countryside, that the houses fall, the whole villages fall. So don't say here that you plan for rehabilitation, you have to have an integral plan of the country, which you don't have. So what had to happen if there was really a policy that really prioritized rehabilitation? We would have to start with the basics: having reliable data, having a transversal policy, that all the boards had to take into account that rehabilitation and regeneration is a priority. For all these issues that you have said, which is like the one in Petete's fat book, basic issues: it's more sustainable, it fights climate change, it creates much more jobs; 70% of the budgeting of rehabilitation works is for employment, while it's vice versa when it's new work, etc., etc. Yes, literature is very good, but we have to have an integral policy that makes when we make a Law on the ground take into account and prioritizes regenerating policies, and don't forget, as in your Law on the ground recently approved. We have to have less bureaucracy; people stop asking for help because of excessive bureaucracy, technical support and economic support. And then a separate one, Counselor. In your effort not to say any data, you have forgotten one of the most serious problems this country has: this country is the second autonomous community with a higher level of energy poverty; and you here said nothing, said neither the current state nor how evolution was, but it's the second, after Valencia. Affected nearly 200,000 Greek homes by energy poverty; after Valencia, the highest level. And that's got a lot to do with rehabilitation, which, ever since you got here, keeps coming down. When you arrived — according to IGE data — there were 938 rehabilitation works; in 2015 — the latest data — 331. Instead, the demolition data descends, much less rapidly; the proportion of demolition on rehabilitation has multiplied, even the new work — which has also had a decrease — on rehabilitation. Rehabilitation — according to the IGE — was the one who suffered the most from the economic crisis. Perhaps they haven't made a lot of economic policies, they've been practically empty for several years. And, therefore, we do not believe that bet, Counselor. We're still in time to listen to that data we're asking you to show us that they really are serious about rehabilitation and that they don't come to us again to tell us stories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u44	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, I'm going to start with you, because it made me very funny with your parody of demolition. And you're from the brigade and picket number 1 demolition; from that demolition brigade you're number 1. First, they tried to demolish the BNG, they almost got it, it's reverberating from the ashes — so to speak —; now, it's demolishing In Marea-Pomos, now it's the demolela, yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] But -- you know -- when a work doesn't have suitable professionals, director or director of work, because it usually leaves the building ruinous or twisted. And that's what's happening to you in this case. It's that simple. [[Applause]] And, look, as far as the People's Party is concerned, don't worry, because the October results were devastating, but to the opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u46	On the question, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u47	We are talking — Mr President, you are right — about demolition and rehabilitation, which, indeed, is what there is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u48	Yeah, yeah, but I get it, too. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u49	That's what's happening. Because some seem to be more interested in other issues than the real problem of housing and rehabilitation, which Galicia has just like other autonomous communities. [[Murmurs.]] Same thing. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm going to start now by Mr Bará, who also spoke... yes, yes, no, he made it a little funny, and I think that a companion of his didn't have much to like when he talked about the masters' dwellings, because I'm convinced that he wants the masters' homes to be recovered. And it seems little to you. But life is sometimes done with little details, even if that's a detail. Because there are other important details that the counselor has exposed here. And look, two years ago — when the RehaVIta Plan 2015-2020 was approved, there was an appearance to expose it — his predecessor said that he was smoke, propaganda and that he didn't create to any extent. Today it was said here that the measurements seemed good, although not enough. They bring ideas, they're making new proposals. And, of course, you also spoke -- I'd say that taking advantage of Lérez passing through Pontevedra -- from Madrid, from Mouse... it's a pity I hadn't talked about the river passing through Havana when you were the general director and spent that 1,300,000 euros in Havana, among them, part of them in mojitos. Too bad I didn't talk about it and didn't remember it. [[Applause]] It's a lot more recent! [[Murmurs.]] Hey, it's a lot more recent than that, it's a lot more recent! But, well, we can talk about it. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And look, the soil law of the year 1997 -- because it's always talked about it -- tells me that Galician municipalities, which -- if any -- who actually applied that regulation and which affected the urban expansion that was made in some municipalities or the growth, or the bubble was due to that law. Tell me, tell me! Because most of them remain unfortunately planning many of them without adapting to Law 9/2002 and, of course, less to the new law, to that of 2016. So, man, what did it affect you? Look, starting with Pontevedra, which I think is 1990. That is, it's time, after twenty-seven years, to try to adapt to the current legislation the General Plan. But, well, you'll know a lot about that, that's from there. Look, when the RehaVIta Plan 2015-2020 was introduced, there was a clear bet, there were several axes containing this RehaVIta Plan, which would mobilise EUR 307 million from the Council and would have a movement of around 600—because, logically, for every million euros contributing to public funding, a series of resources from other plants or private entities—was being moved, there were 152,000 people who could benefit, of 26,000 jobs. And the reality is that these programs are running, they're running. Four fundamental acting axes. One, which was access to housing to the most disadvantaged families; there are concrete measures, among them, some of the measures directed — these twelve measures with themes to avoid evictions — 107 million euros in those six years; 134 in rehabilitation — which is what we are talking about. Because of these 134 there were 64 others for the issue of residential exclusion and coverage of other situations of special vulnerability. Of these 134 today — if we balance what it's done — don't match my accounts, Mrs. Pierres, how it may be that if there are budgeted 15 million euros, if you run 17 million euros and you say it's 15.8%; the accounts don't give me; I'm numbers too, I'm science too, but then I don't think, we're talking about rehabilitation, I don't think. And if you go to the assumptions behind it, perhaps what you might not — which was the canteen Mr. Bugallo said — was the policy Mr. Zapatero had — yes, Mr. Zapatero — that to justify the investments of the Council that he had created of Vivenda, yes, and of the Ministry, yes, of the Ministry of Housing, sorry, to justify what it turns out to the autonomous communities in the Housing Plan the investments, which were inexecutable, and logically that would have to be returned. Therefore, they were splits that appeared in budgets continuously and that were not executables, and that's why the low level of execution. He was explained — and is shown in the minutes collected — on countless occasions in his predecessor, Mr Bugallo. What happens is, when you want to do demagogy, it's much easier. [[Murmurs.]] And look, there it is. And if the budget was the 15 million you were saying -- that's not so, but good -- you can hardly justify it when there's 17 million euros invested in 2016. There are, 68 ARI, now 2 more, there are already 70, 7.5 million euros, 984 actions, 360 of them in the area of Santiago roads, 128 municipalities that are included in these rehabilitation areas; rural rehabilitation and historical helmets, 5 million euros invested, 952 actions; rehabilitation and promotion of rent, 2.6 million euros; rehabilitation and improvement of public promotion housing, 1.2 million euros, 895 dwellings in which it worked; total, 3.644 actions. The budgets this year? There they are. Forecast: up to 38 million euros, 29 million more, 10 million euros that are at the heart of cooperation with the municipalities. What more do we want? Of course! But the pity — and it must be said — is the policy that the Bipartite has made. I remember there was a specific housing councillor. Do you know what the show they made for housing, you know what it was? Yes, a housing plan that cost 3 million euros that took over some architects and technicians who took care of it — 3 million euros — and that the BNG mayors themselves were relieved because it was imperishable. I mean, zero. They lived from the rehabilitation initiated in the previous mandate of the People's Party Government. Like in Tinería, they're selling there what they didn't do. And when you talk... and you're right that you have to make it obvious, you have to simplify the processing. [[Murmurs.]] He's right. [[Murmurs.]] And I hope you will inform the counties governed by the Socialist Party — in many cases, such as Lugo, with the support of Lugo Novo, that is, En Marea-Podemos and BNG — of how licenses are handled. Because for a licence in Tinería it took a year, and there have been other pendants for months and months without answering. And it's not Lugo an island, it's curiously happening in many other municipalities. And don't forget how you left the Living Council. I know BNG wore it, but how they left it at the time of the Bipartite! Because only by sanitizing the gestures, 263 million euros; that is equivalent to 3,000 dwellings, Mrs Pierres and the opposition lords; 263 million euros. Those are the numbers and they're there too, they're there. 40 million continually had to be done. Counsellor, I congratulate you on the new contributions you make, for the work done in the coming programs. And, of course, it seems to me that the ReHaluga program is very important. It seems to me to be an important subject, and I would invite — as now that you will count on help to convert or make habitable those dwellings that can be put there, aids that even come up to 100% of the expenditure you can invest to make habitable those dwellings that are incorporated into that plan — to be an incentive for municipalities such as the Coruña or the Vigo – where most housing problems are in Galicia – to be added and collaborated; and not only speak of words in the electoral programs that served to the municipalities, but that really collaborate and participate, that take that step forward and, among all, let us really make a housing policy addressed to the Greeks and the Greeks who now have housing problems. Let's hope so. I know the Council is working that way. Keep working on that path because of the opposition, of course, unfortunately, very little can be expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u50	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Replica, Madam Infrastructure and Housing Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u51	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering into the considerations that each of you have commented on, let me bring it into practice and remember that this government was the first government that approved Galicia's first Housing Plan, despite the fact that it was the Bi-Party Government that created a specific housing council that I will not remember again that they left absolutely broken and therefore that no approved housing plan had been approved. A housing plan, the RehaVIta Plan 2015-2020, which is characterized by the Government's sensitivity in facilitating access to housing; by betting for the future, for a rational and sustainable future; and by boosting that strategic sector, which is rehabilitation, which generates economic activity and also employment, because — as I said in my first intervention — is the most job-creating activity per euro invested. And a rehabilitation strategy that has a triple dimension: territorial, economic and social. Territorial, because the impulse to the recovery of the already built is crucial to the model of the country we seek and we want. And rationalizing the occupation of the territory is our country model. Economics, to generate activity and employment. And first of all social aspects, of course, by boosting rehabilitation actions, reducing the number of homes in poor condition. So we're opening one more door to meet the constitutional right to a housing, making it easier for the Greeks to access a housing, to respond to housing needs. And, ladies and gentlemen, the rehabilitation strategy, therefore, goes beyond a set of measures or a set of new initiatives, is a powerful mechanism of social cohesion. Having said this, Mr Bará, I see that either little information or little attention has been given, and few ideas on rehabilitation, because it has emphasized no more than the help in the rehabilitation of teachers' homes, it has invested more than half of its time in other matters that have nothing to do with rehabilitation. And from the indebtedness of public administrations, you know a lot. I'm going back to insisting on the breakdown of the gestures that you have left, which is hypothesizing the social measures that this council would, of course, want to push and it's pushing. They set up a specific housing council, but they left it at break-in with the gestures, buying alone anywhere at any price, no planning and no room for manoeuvre in the following years to be able to solve social housing initiatives as we are doing today. Mrs Pierres, I would like to stress again, Mr Castineira said: the Lugo Council took a year to issue a licence for rehabilitation works in the Tinería. So give us lessons to the rest of the administrations on processing... one year to give a license! What's the point of helping? I'll transfer you to the rest of the lords. Ask the 3,600 families we've given these help. I'm sure they know well so they can serve that help. Mr. Sánchez, you speak of what I say as generalities. Of course, I'm talking to the Official Journal of Galicia. Other municipalities may not, because they don't publish their bids and they don't run the budget. We speak to the Official Journal of Galicia by soliciting, adjudicating, granting help. There are 3,600 families with aids. What better indicator than the 3,600 families we gave the help to? [[Applause]] I'm surprised you don't know that Galicia is a rehabilitation reference, the whole state knows. So I'm surprised you don't know that Galicia is a reference to rehabilitation. The cost involved is more than 70%. You speak of technical and economic support, and I would add social. So I'm glad you bet on Regurbe areas because in that line the Regurbe areas go. And by the way, I think the Town Hall of Coruña doesn't bet on rehabilitation and doesn't give licenses for rehabilitation works either. Besides, some smaller investment for rehabilitation, which is smaller than in previous years, doesn't even even execute it. It is also the model of the Town Hall, or some other model, to paralyze the investments of the Union in the field of protected housing and public housing. We've been on leave since December for the construction of houses in the Office. Therefore, one, two, three, four months, and still waiting for them to grant the licence to make public housing in the Olympic Park of the Crown. And without forgetting that social aspect, Mr Bará — you only focused on the homes of the teachers — let me focus again and remind you of this new social measure, pioneer, which is the ReHaluga programme, which conjugates economic activity and also helps families access a housing. That's the ReHaluga program I wanted to highlight, which has overlooked you. Mr. Sánchez was talking about empty houses. I hope that this ReHaluga program will serve to encourage the incorporation of different municipalities, because we are talking about a helping hand to subsidise thoroughly those homes that are incorporated into the Empty Housing Program. Something important is that the owners decide to include these real estate, and we will finance the reform, maintenance and rehabilitation work to meet the living conditions. And there's also a program that will fund the equipping of appliances that are necessary to guarantee living conditions and living conditions in a new housing. So increase that social housing bag for people in difficulty. In the coming days we will publish this call, ReHaluga, with 200,000 euros. As I said, a new social measure that has also gone unnoticed is the Rexurbe Programme, which conjugates the economic and social aspects to facilitate access to housing. In rural matters, Mr Sánchez, you know I come from rural areas, and therefore I don't believe in a prosperous Galicia without a living and active rural — I always tell you — So, insisting on rural, that's also the social factor in this rehabilitation strategy that I'm looking for concrete proposals. We're taking into account the rural neighbours, betting on programs to recover the built heritage and improve housing. Here are the areas of integral rehabilitation, which we have increased the budget this year, from which 128 municipalities can benefit. In 2016 they were able to benefit 1,000 families. Another important indicator: rehabilitation of housing in rural areas and in historical settings, 950 families. Another important indicator: infra-inhabitants in rural areas, that line to which we are allocating EUR 500,000 this year. Therefore, calls and aids published and to publish in order to help families isolate their homes from moisture, improve safety, improve mobility, make housing more accessible, because all this is quality of life to make housing more accessible to families as well. New programs, therefore, with special impact — I insist — in rural areas, in the small population centres. From there, the master's housing line. In addition to the measure — which has also passed unnoticed for you — to set population in rural areas, which is the zero-tax programme on the purchase of habitual housing; a programme that has driven the Farm Council, which believes that we are coordinated and that we have a transversal housing policy, which covers 94% of the territory — more than 3,400 parishes — and which will benefit young people, large families and people with disabilities to buy that habitual living, and do not have to pay the taxes on property transmissions or legal acts. Of course, our goal is, of course, to achieve a living rural, with new measures and new tools, and also to bet on the measures that we believe have been effective. The Vivenda Observatory is also an important initiative that has passed unnoticed to you. I think it's an important initiative to provide more information and knowledge on housing, so that it will serve as a support for decision-making. They know that last April 12 we've already called for the study to work in that Vivenda Observatory and put it in motion. It will count on a web portal to publish the information; we will publish monthly e-mails. We'll set up a participatory channel on the web so they can intervene in discussions and opinions. Thus, total transparency and total participation in this Vivenda Observatory, with specific studies and statistical information. The forecasts at this Vivenda Observatory? Work in his elaboration and design until October. Once we have completed this phase, I hope that we will convene the first meeting of the Standing Committee on the Housing Observatory, which I hope will be in the third quarter of this year. The most ambitious instrument on housing and rehabilitation in this legislation is, as I have commented, the Galician Rehabilitation Act, where we are working with special dedication, and with particular attention, of course, to historical helmets. The purpose of the law is to revitalize and dynamize Galicia with a live rural area and, of course, also active metropolitan areas; and, together, of course, bet on a more prosperous Galicia. Facilitate and promote rehabilitation actions with a view to ensuring quality of life. We're talking about the first law of Welsh rehabilitation, and what we're trying to do is put in value that heritage that we've built and, therefore, create identity in Galicia. In this new policy framework, with particular emphasis on historical sets, the objective is standards and criteria for sustainability, dynamisation, but essentially and mainly administrative simplification, administrative coordination and new financing instruments, because what we are trying to do is to facilitate rehabilitation, respect the built heritage, improve the quality of life and remove the obstacles, the difficulties that are taking place. What we want is to encourage people to rehabilitate, not to be discouraged. To encourage the neighbours to rehabilitate, and that more and more people are betting to rehabilitate. So, summarizing, with this law, what we want is to promote the culture of rehabilitation; that people are increasingly aware of rehabilitation, that it is a personal and collective need and that it has important returns to society: increasing well-being, placed in the value of our landscape, our surroundings, our architecture, the revitalization of towns, cities; dynamism and economic development; and also enhancing our tourism here in Galicia. Therefore, to create identity; an instrument towards the future; to regain the past to cement the future, betting on our architecture. I — I insist — await the following interventions to make constructive bets and, of course, proposals to be able to study them and, of course, to be able to incorporate them, if they are constructive, into our strategy of rehabilitation in Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u52	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u53	They spoke of Mr. Castineira and Mrs. Counsellor for the Breakdown of the Housing Council and the housing policy of the BNG in the Galician Union. What led to the breakdown was the economic policy of looting the public accounts that you carried out. That's what led to the breakdown, the looting of public accounts, not to mention all the examples we're seeing of how they're putting their hand in the public accounts box. [[Applause]] That's what leads to the breakdown of public accounts and also to the breakdown of the trust of many people, who sees the bad example that you set. Mr. Castineira, I don't know, I haven't talked about the 1997 Soil Law, I've talked about the liberalization measures in soil matters, approved by the People's Party of Mr. Aznar and Mr. Rato, which have led to this disproportionate growth of construction with the consequences we all know. Don't worry about Pontevedra's plan because Pontevedra's fine. Pontevedra is a dynamic city, has a living historical center, has a historic center that I think is an example of dynamism and vitality as well, of regeneration and recovery. So, if you want proposals, advisor, come to Pontevedra!, let's go to Allariz!, because they are also examples of different sizes of municipalities where you can make policies by betting for yourself, betting for resources, wagering for regeneration, rehabilitation, confidence in the possibilities that the country has. Large size, medium size, small size, what they want. We can give them proposals to act, to reverse that situation that is having rural, besides decline, loss of pulse, loss of population and loss of future expectations. And, of course, you've been ruling for eight years and you haven't seen those results because, in fact, you don't have a comprehensive rural policy. Then you criticize the BNG government at the Galician board, but you're living in rents, because who created the Vigo Old Helmet Consortium? The BNG in Galician Union, and more in Vigo's municipal government, pushed that plan of recovery, regeneration and rehabilitation of homes in Vigo's old townhouse. And you're now delivering keys to the old Lugo helmet recovery plan that pushed the BNG in its day. Your example, the example you give us, is, in any case, that of Betanzos, I told you that they bought nine buildings in 2011 and they're in ruins. What balance do you guys make? Now it turns out they announce that three of these buildings will be rehabilitated, but I really believe that this is the clear example of the People's Party model. Betanzos: the result of these six years is absolutely zero. You didn't explain to me how they're going to do this urban rehabilitation program called Rexurbe Plan, which is about 1,500 homes, 500 buildings, 350 commercial sites and, including the Cooperation Fund, I understand that it's going to be 3,000 housing. We'll see the balance, because, as I told you, you're announcing that you're going to buy and rehabilitate these buildings and, of course, with the data we have for 2017, they don't give the accounts that in this legislation they're going to get even 20% of what they announce here. Not to mention what Mr Feijóo said in the election campaign, who announced the rehabilitation of 10,000 homes in the historic rural areas. Those are your ads. Well, the Vivenda Observatory is an announcement that comes, of course, too late. In any case, what we propose is that it be an independent body; an autonomous government body to study, analyze, evaluate and make proposals for public housing policies. But the ads we've got right now aren't very encouraging because they're going for a model that bets more on the privatization of that organism. And, of course, Mr. Castineiras woke up from Cuba. Well, I've already told you here once — and I'll repeat it every time it needs — that we, of course, bet and believe — and so we did when we were in the Government — in a model of external promotion of the Greek culture that he told, in addition, with the support and participation of all sectors related to the Greek culture, with the world of the book, which they were involved, believed and bet on that model. [[Applause]] And we also feel proud of the potential of the Greek culture, of the potentials it has, to carry it through the world with pride, with dignity, believing in our possibilities and without asking anyone for permission. Of course, to tell me here that the problem is that they spent 1,500 euros on a cocktail — besides mojitos, of course!, there they don't drink wine from the river—and that you tell me, that they made papacy of 5,000 people, of barbecues, in Bos Aires, in Montevideo and Havana... what example do you want to give us of waste and waste? What are you here to give us an example, if Mr. Fraga has traveled all over Latin America making papacy for 5,000 people? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u55	Of course, we have that kind of bet for the culture of Galicia, not for the demolition of the culture of Galicia, not for the destruction of the culture of Galicia, which started with you in 2009.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u56	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Castineira, as much as I read the numbers I have here from the execution of the budget... I'll read them, because I may have been wrong about year or budget, I don't know. Initial appropriation for Programme 451A, EUR 15,224,000; recognised obligations, 2,158,000; performance index, 15.8%. I don't know, if you manage another one, let me and all the Greeks get to it. [[Applause]] And on the other hand, Counselor, I have the feeling that I have come here with a constructive spirit, that I have brought some kind of initiative or recommendation, and I have taken it as everyone else. I don't teach anything, that's to start with. It's questions that aren't working. If you want, we'll all look somewhere else and let this drift away. I, for my part, am not going to do it. Let me tell you what to talk about, which is our obligation. [[Applause]] I don't know if they're missing, at least in my speech, speaking of Gürtel, Punic, or Leo, I'm not going around. I mean, I was talking about historical helmets, the flexibility effort that needs to be made to speed up and encourage rehabilitation projects. So we have to assume the problem -- if you said so -- that you are assuming the delay in obtaining the licenses. The delay in handling the records of historical cases is mainly motivated by the intervention of organisms other than the municipalities, and mainly by the intervention of the Heritage Service of Junta, in the case of historical helmets. Historical helmet projects usually require archaeological projects or studies that require prior reports in the municipalities. Once informed, they need another report again from the Joint Heritage Service, which will refer to the actions to be carried out in the building. All these pre-licensed processes that in some provincial services can last for about a year — at best — a year and a half of processing and even two; and I'm not talking about something that you don't know in much detail. What are those delays in the issuance of the reports? On the one hand, the lack of staff is evident; on the other hand, the lack of clear criteria in the interpretation of allowed interventions in each case by technicians and the commission itself. There are multiple cases of files in which the Heritage Commission denies a proposal for a solution in a building which, if it is curiously authorized in a neighbouring building, which, as it is to be understood, causes the confusion of the promoters and the technicians involved. Situations that end up blocking the files, which lead management technicians to personal assessments, and cause the stiffness and abandonment of those who want to rehabilitate, which is the most serious. And who loses with all this situation is not only the promoter or the technicians involved, but all the Greeks and gales, who see as the lack of incentives, speed and flexibility causes the loss of a common heritage. Let's also see what's going on with the offices in the integral rehabilitation areas of the ARI. In Galicia today there are a total of 69 ARIs, considering it recently — you also commented — the inclusion of the island of Ons as a new addition. And when we talk about appropriations, we want to talk about the reality of these ARIs. What happened to them in recent years speaks for itself. The last plan that funded and provided the ARIs in 2013-2016 was a plan approved in April 2013. In February 2014 the basic guidelines were given for the Galician Union. And in November 2014 it was the resolution of the State-Junta partnership agreement to implement the state plan. It was still late in October 2015 when agreements were made with the municipalities, which were the ones that actually launched all the offices. And what was the result of all this tortuous set in motion? That the offices had only one cash year, one year, to take advantage of all the aid, losing the funds of previous years. And now the situation is that of extending the previous plan for a year for this 2017, having all the rehabilitation offices doubt whether there really will be funds to assist and maintain the offices and will be out, and when, a new state plan. We are not going to talk here about the whole management problem of these offices, which is a lot, but about the importance of the fact that, when years ago 70% of an act was subsidized, with a maximum contribution limit of EUR 11,000, now the subsidy is half, with resources only from the state. In the past, therefore, the Board provided a part that is not now. In practice, what is happening is that the promoters — I have put an example — when before in an intervention of 14,000 euros would recover 11,000 euros, now to perceive those 11,000 euros have to invest previously about 31,500 euros, which is a big difference, because it mainly affects the Greeks and the Greeks with less solvency and more difficulty in coping with works that are often nothing more than improving living conditions. Help that, on the other hand, if it takes about a year to be received by the slow management process between offices or even the Ministry of Development. However, what we're trying to do is to show that any intention of declaring areas of integral rehabilitation or historical set seems to us to be all right. But, of course, this must be accompanied by sufficient budget allocations, as well as proper management. We know that this year's budgets provide for €3,750,000, which means an increase of 2 million. But since we find that 1,75 million last year were not reflected in the action grants, it would be interesting for us to comment, Counsellor — in case we know — on how they reflected it and what expenses were covered. If you count, 69 ARI — within just 70 — distributed throughout Galicia, with 3,750,000 euros, represents an average of 54,500 euros per ARI. If this is translated as a target by the number of beneficiaries, with the maximum support per promoter of 11,000, we're talking about an average of 5 performances by ARI. Something that's hard to explain, and even justify the mere existence of the ARI offices, where an average of 40,000 euros per year is invested only in their maintenance, some even more. It is therefore necessary to increase the budget significantly in order to be sustainable, since if we consider these offices necessary, even increasing their presence in the territory. By the end of the day, we still understand that attention should be paid to the management criteria of these offices. There are few that carry out the work of raising awareness and disseminating good practices in rehabilitation. They become mere helper offices, leaving aside one of the main criteria...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u59	...which rejects the State Housing Plan, as is the knowledge transmission. I'm done. We therefore reiterate our request for more commitment to budget allocation. And let them get wet, Counselor. Move. They allow Galicia to once again be that fertile land where everything grows and thrives. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u61	Thank you, Mr. Castineiras, but I'm not really a demolition. What is demolition is to check daily for those who work for the People's Party; that's indeed demolition. Don't come here to friflify on a very serious subject, or to reduce it to isolated cases, or to reduce it to individual behaviors depending on the ethics of each person. It's not like that, it's not like that! That affects every order of our lives. It seriously affects people's economy and people's well-being. I could put thousands of examples of this kind of oligarchy that already existed in franchise, like Mr. Villar Mir, and that when democracy arrived — which they left well tied — they had to bet on some political instrument to continue doing business at the expense of the administration as they did earlier in franchiseism, and they bet on you. And it's not the other way around, it's not the other way around. [[Applause]] They bet on you, and behind all decisions in infrastructure, in public services, in recruitment, that's it, Mr. Castineira. Villar Mir and OHL, who enjoys the favor of the gods in public administrations, is behind it. Who do you charge and who do you work for? That's the key! OHL and Villar Mir...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u62	We from Parliament... sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u63	...Sacyr...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u64	No, I'm sorry, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u65	Mr. President, yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u66	You listen to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u67	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u68	There are certain statements that I can't get there, and I won't allow them. Members and Members are receiving Parliament's public salaries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u70	...not on the other side. No, no, don't go that way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u71	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u72	No, no, don't go around because then I'm gonna have to call him in order. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Don't tell me about envelopes or... sorry, don't tell me about this. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm not... sorry, I'm gonna have to call the order. I'm not going to consent... No, no, sorry, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u73	...or are you going to say everything you want here and we won't be able to say things that are real? No, I won't let you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u74	Mr. Sánchez, Mr. Sánchez, I allow you certain statements and others not. So it renews the debate, which we are talking about infrastructure and housing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u75	I admit it, but I'm not willing to lie because you tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u76	It's not about that, I'm not going to argue with you. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u77	And that, while Mr. Castineira may speak of Venezuela, when in Operation Lezo who was doing business with Venezuela was Mr. Ignacio González. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u78	Hold on to the question, by the way!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u79	And when we just heard that the Minister of Justice, who never called the victim platform of Alvia, he sent messages to Mr. Ignacio González saying, "A strong hug. I wish the mess would be over soon. Luis is strong, etc. That doesn't matter to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u80	Mr. Sánchez, I'll call the matter. I'll call the matter for the first time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u81	That's the point, all right. Then let's get to the point! Counsellor, if it was the first speech, it was the second; and that of Mr. Castineira, let's not say any more. So here's the fault of the Bipartite, the Tide... the Bipartite, who has been four years — you've been ruling for thirty years — four years!, the Tides, which have been two years, and Venezuela, these are the culprits that the rehabilitation policy is not good. Those are the culprits! Look, see if I try it because I have a lot of morals, see if I try to explain it to you. When I talk about that the aids are not enough, I set the example that Mr. Castineira set: the 1997 Land Law. Why do we say that it is liberalizing, Mr. Castineira, and that it has had a demolition effect that has had consequences after the explosion of the real estate bubble, where many of the people's parties have been lining up and are now in Brazil creating bubbles again? What's wrong? Well, look, because it was defined that all the soil was urbanizable except the one expressly protected; except the one expressly protected. At that time, in 1997, Mr. Castineira, there were aids for housing rehabilitation. There were aids, basically the same. You guys haven't invented anything. Basically the same help in housing rehabilitation. What happened in the years after, for a lot of help in rehabilitation? That evidently the business was in the new work and urban expansion. So for a lot of help that they put on, if they don't change the model, and they put a law on the ground that they take into account, which prioritizes regeneration and rehabilitation, they won't change things transcendently. That's what we're saying when we bet on an integral and cross-cutting policy. You have passed a law of soil that continues to bet on the very easy recalibration in urbanized soil. Yes, the definition of urbanizable soil -- the article I think is 23, I don't know if I'm wrong -- simply says, "Those lands that are necessary for economic activity or for population growth, etc.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh The vague criteria allow economic promoters, of course, to do more business in recalibrating rustic soil into urbanizable soil, and therefore that will continue to be the model, which coexist with the abandonment of historical centres, where it is more expensive and more complicated to act. That's why we're also talking about bureaucratic obstacles and technical support. It's much easier for people to do new work, it's much cheaper for people to do new work, than rehabilitation in this country, and that must have been studied in the elaboration of the Law of the Land, as we proposed. I mean, transfers. We have to strictly calculate the transfers that have to be when there is a regeneration operation, because we have to see if that encourages or discourages urban regeneration operations. We're talking about this. We've come to be serious about this. We're serious, we're presenting 138 allegations, and you have an obsolete, inefficient and ineffective ground law for the goals that you yourself say you want to defend, and you have a law of housing and land that doesn't talk about evictions, that doesn't talk about housing rights and that doesn't basically talk about urban regeneration. Law of the soil that has nothing to do with the objectives that came here to say the counselor. They came to boast of the ReHaluga program. How much are you budgeted, Counselor, for the ReHaluga program? Can you say that here? As you're not going to say, I tell you: 200,000 euros; 200,000 euros for that ambitious plan. And it may not be necessary to budget more than 200,000 euros, because what it means is that you are starting, for the first year — and we will see the results — to make policies to promote rehabilitation for rental. It's the first time you've done it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u83	So maybe it's only necessary to budget 200,000 euros, but that's the reality. If you had been implementing rehabilitation policies for rent since 2009, it would probably take a lot more euros for people to access these aid. In the meantime...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u85	...you've even allocated just 200,000 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u86	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, I don't know if the demolition is or not, that will be your business, but, of course, it will bring solutions here, none. And look, here, our comrades -- I don't know you -- we charge Parliament for what we have been elected by all the Greeks to find solutions to the problems of the Greeks, many of them generated by governments protected by you, such as unemployment or the economic situation. We were chosen for that. So these charges keep them, I don't know if for yours or others. [[Applause]] In housing policy, lessons, little. You review your model; perhaps your model is that of Ramon Spinaar, possibly. I buy 10, I sell to 100, and with that 10% I'm going to fix it, right? That's what she says... or Mrs. Elvira García's. Senator's salary wouldn't give him a social rental. What are we gonna do to him! Maybe that's the model of you, of course! That's the model of you! Ours, of course, is there, and the Greeks and the Greeks said years ago, in 2009, that they didn't want the Bipartite. They were told loudly. Why? Because they didn't like the policies — including the housing policy, and others — that the Bipartite was doing. Yes, Mr Bará. I didn't speak, by the way, nor did I mention Venezuela. I mentioned Havana, don't confuse. I think Havana is not in Venezuela at the moment, even though they're close. I didn't mention it. Maybe he didn't listen, because they come with his speech, which is to demolish the PP. They don't care. His goal is, the worse, the better. That's the goal and how you work, and that's what you're looking for. But that's where we don't come in, much less, because we've been chosen to do a job, and that's what we're going to defend above all. Above all, Mr. Sanchez. And, Mr Bará, indeed, you... President — I mean it was the President Hotel where they went — perhaps prefer that to other things. Okay, you've seen it. And perhaps he confused the 5,000 that said that Mr. Manuel Fraga handled or went to his memoirs in Bos Aires -- yes, because he was appreciated and loved -- with the 5,000 women who took Mr. Anxo Quintana to Silleda, at best paid for by the Greeks. Or the buses that led Mr. Quintana. [[Applause]] Maybe he's confused. The figures are the same, but they're different. [[Murmurs.]] Maybe he was confused about it. And look, the 1997 Land Law... is that it's good for demagogy, it's good for demagogy! And this both for In Marea, for Mr. Sánchez, and for Mr. Bará. Liberalizing measures. I told you before: tell me one general plan or one council that had affected you and applied to Galicia. Since 1997, the Land Law came into force, where, in fact, they could develop urbanizable, the rustic soil could be urbanizable, tell me a urbanizable soil that had been processed in Galicia before the Land Law of 2002 — Galicia Act 9/2002 — which logically had already avoided it. Tell me. By the way, with the vote against all of you, and with the vote in favour, and law, of the People's Party Government. Tell me just one urbanizable ground, and even one planning, that I had adapted to the 1997 Land Law and not to the other. So, as much as they talk, it wasn't applied in Galicia, it didn't apply in Galicia. You forget, because the real estate bubble, the affect... the Town Hall of Barriers had a delimitation of the ground, that of Foz has a delimitation of the ground or subsidiary rules of 1985, or other municipalities, and it didn't affect them for anything the 1997 Law, so don't do demagox. Bring ideas, I think it's all right. And I want to thank Mrs. Pierres there. Why? Because it came in a constructive tone, and I think that's how it should be done. No, you have to recognize when you speak, and you're right about this: you have to share responsibilities in bureaucracy. You're absolutely right, and you have to say it. Indeed, in some cases Heritage is too slow or reversed to issue reports. And I took them out of Lugo because in that case it was efficient Heritage. In less than a month, he processed that report, and the Town Hall delayed sending the file to Heritage for eight months. That's what's unforgivable. But logically, it doesn't mean that all the municipalities are like this or that in all cases Heritage is so efficient. So, there's a need to be agitated. I totally agree. But I also want to remember that one of the subjects, the issue of the qualification certificate for rural rehabilitation, also delays all this processing. Don't forget — and you have to say that — who implemented this whole system was the Bipartite. There was an axile rural rehabilitation system, which I don't say is better this one or another with more processing, more control over qualifications or types of works to be done, but, careful!, there was a license from the county and it was passed to grants. And then half of Galicia in rural areas is rehabilitated. Not half, much more! Countless traditional buildings were recovered from those subsidies and aid from those rural rehabilitation programmes in the 1990s and from the early 2000s until 2005, until the Bipartite arrived and that program was eliminated and changed completely. But well, what we're talking about is the future, and the future, of course, I think it's going in the right direction. It goes well with the applications proposed here, with the proposals, with the development of the current and new proposals such as the ReHaluga plan. Yes, the ReHaluga plan I think it's a good proposal; the Rehabilitation Act is a good proposal; the investment of nearly 40 million euros for this exercise that develops, that runs, I think it's a great proposal; and, of course, we're going to work on that line and it's going to count on our support. And, of course, yes — Mr President — the 70 ARIs, and I am glad that one of them is on the island of Ons, which, by the way, has been approved in this Parliament. Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u88	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Close the show, Madam Infrastructure and Housing Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u89	Thank you, President. I, in my intervention, tried to explain with maximum clarity the reasons of the Greek Government for this bet on rehabilitation. I'm here to talk about public policies and measures of interest to the Greeks. I'm sorry that you're using this gallery to talk about anything but the matter you brought us here today, which is to talk about housing. I've come here to talk about rehabilitation, about wagering for the rehabilitation of the German Government, which will lead to a dynamisation of the economy into a key sector. But, above all, what we consider is that rehabilitation is an effective channel of response to social needs in terms of housing for people, for the Greeks and for the Greeks. We have marked this priority to facilitate access to a home, and we want rehabilitation to be an instrument to build a future, to recover the past, which is the architectural historical footprint, and to cement Galicia's future by recovering that past. Those were the reasons that inspired us to bet on rehabilitation, which we've been pushing for a long time. This rehabilitation support has increased substantially in recent years with specific measures for rural nuclei, for historical sets, for housing in the Way of Santiago, aid for rehabilitation and direct actions of the Galician Union. And that's why in Plan RehaVIta we've already given a special mention, a special attention, to rehabilitation. And the programmes collected repeat them again: areas of comprehensive rehabilitation, rehabilitation of rural housing, in historical assemblies, aid to communities of owners and public promotion housing, rehabilitation programmes of housing buildings, subsidies for rural infra-vivals and direct actions of the Galician Union. I believe that a barometer to identify the battery of measures and also the good welcome are the families that we benefited, because it was practically 3,600 families who benefited from these aids and these measures, with an investment in 2016 of more than 17 million euros. They are positive results that motivate us, of course, to continue working and boost the rehabilitation strategy and to include these programs also in the rehabilitation strategy, which this year foresees an investment of nearly 40 million euros. And in the Greek Government we always understand housing policy as something dynamic, capable of evolving at the pace of demands and needs of the Greeks, with initiatives I have already mentioned in previous interventions, with new measures, new measures, such as improvements in energy efficiency, aid for old masters' housing, to rehabilitate these homes of masters, or ReHaluga, Mr. Sánchez, a pioneer, social measure. For now, the only great city that has this program active is Ourense, of course, that the budget arrives. Because Santiago has not yet published the order, Ferrol has changed his mind but has not yet become incorporated and, of course, the Crown continues to say no, despite the urging of the People's Valedora to join. I hope that with this new initiative we will be able, among all, to make a set of social housing based on a set of unoccupied housing. There are also the loan of interestless individuals and the cooperation fund to help the municipalities also rehabilitate and with zero interest. This is Pontevedra and Allariz. Mr Bará, I'm ARI, I'm ARI. I think you know it well. The Board has made the investments in these ARIs. Therefore, in Allariz and Pontevedra rehabilitation was possible for an investment by the Galician Union of more than 10 million euros. So it wasn't just the result of the BNG governments. I suppose you'll know they're integral rehabilitation areas. I thank Mrs. Pierres, of course, for her constructive initiative of administrative simplification, and that's why, of course, I understand that she is betting on the new law of rehabilitation. Because, as I said in my speeches, what we are looking for is administrative simplification and administration coordination. The goal is to make it easier, to make it as much as possible for people to be encouraged to rehabilitate and not become discouraged to rehabilitate, as it is happening. We therefore intend to accompany the citizens in these commitments for rehabilitation, which the municipalities also wager for humanizing and regaining the heritage. And we believe that this package of measures, this battery of important measures, is a measure in the future. In 2017, this strategy of rehabilitation of the Galician Union is expected to reach 6,300 families, so it's twice the number of families we've reached last year, last year. And the induced investment we estimate will be €58 million. So we're going to work to continue to provide better answers and solutions to the housing needs of the Greeks and the Greeks, with new instruments, as I said, such as the housing observatory and the new rehabilitation law, which is a future bet for Galicia. It's the first Greek law of rehabilitation, a law would say social and also dynamizing to improve the quality of life of all the Greek families, of the singular neighborhoods, and to promote the culture of rehabilitation. Creating Galician identity I think it's a collective task, a task of all. We have the obligation to work together as a country for the future, for the cultural heritage we have, and thus to regain the past to cement the future, to recover that architecture that is our architecture in Galicia. So I hope that among all of us we can improve Galicia by betting on rehabilitation. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u90	Thank you, Counselor. Institutional statement on compliance with the European Union Court of Justice judgement on Western Sahara
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u91	I am now reading an institutional statement by agreement from all groups on the fulfilment of the European Court of Justice judgement on Western Sahara. Leo: "Last December 21, 2016, the European Court of Justice ruled that Western Sahara is not part of the Kingdom of Morocco, which means that no trade agreement between the European Union and Morocco is applicable in Western Sahara and that no commercial activity or export of Western Sahara natural resources cannot be established without the consent of the Saharawi people. This judgment is bound to be complied with by the European and State authorities, and it is also a duty, in addition to respecting it, to give it knowledge of citizenship for its proper implementation. Even so, according to UN Security Council Resolution 2285 of April 2016, the achievement of a political solution and the improvement of cooperation between the Maghreb States will contribute to the stability and security of the region. As already mentioned on previous occasions, on February 26, 1976 Spain brought an end to its presence in Western Sahara, leaving the decolonization process which was already under way within the framework of the UN and affirming that the Spanish State has a historic, legal and moral responsibility to the Saharawi people. For all this, the Galician Parliament: 1. It calls for compliance with and compliance with the European Union Court of Justice judgment of 12 December 2016 establishing that the association and liberalisation agreements between Morocco and the European Union are not applicable to Western Sahara. 2. It expresses its concern at the exploitation of Western Sahara's natural resources, including European companies, contrary to European international law, and insists on remembering the illegality of any commercial activity with Western Sahara without the consent of the Saharawi people. 3. It calls on European, Spanish and German companies to act in conformity with European international law, so as to cease their activities that may favour the perpetuation of the Moroccan occupation of Western Sahara and the exploitation of its natural resources, and urges all authorities to implement the existing legislation on the basis of the recent judgment of the European Court of Justice. 4. It comes to the knowledge of solidarity with which Galician society has long demanded a just, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution through a self-determination referendum that puts an end to the conflict in Western Sahara." [[Approved by consent.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u92	We continue to be full on the third point of the agenda, which is motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. Maria Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the ground health transport service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u93	This motion was tabled with an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u94	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u95	Good day to all and all. We'll talk again today and discuss urgent health transport. And I want to begin by saying with all clarity that the situation of health transport is no more than a symptom of the disease that is suffering from public health in Galicia, a diseased Greek public health of cuts, a disease of lack of staff, a disease of waiting lists, copiers and privatization. And this situation is not by chance, it's not a set-up, nor is it a consequence, as they wanted us to believe, of a crisis situation and lack of economic resources. It is the result, therefore, of an ideological bet on the right to the service of economic power. And that goal was nothing other than to turn public health into business into everything that depends on the People's Party, business for the companies of friends or even directly — as we are seeing — militants and positions of the People's Party. In the full past, in the interpellation that gave rise to this motion that we are debating, the councillor was asked a number of questions on behalf of workers and workers. And today, two weeks after that plenary session, because the situation is still the same. The Galician Union continues without receiving the workers and workers. The counsellor was unable to address them, nor was he, nor any of his team, to find a gap in the schedule to receive them. The employer still doesn't sit down and negotiate with the workers and their representatives, and the service continues to deteriorate. We believe in the BNG that it is urgent and needs a correction of the policy that the Government of Galicia, the Government of the People's Party, is carrying out in land health transport. Throughout the interpeleration of the full past, we could not observe any will on the part of the counselor or any willingness to take note of what the situation was. And, of course, if you don't notice the situation, no means will be taken to solve it. So at that plenary session I took a review of what this situation was, a description of that situation, a situation in which the People's Party was deteriorating the service with all the decisions it was making, with the adjudication of a contest to a company that was preceded by scandals and conflicts in other communities and in other parts of the Spanish State, a company that was involved in its majority by a venture capital company and which in front of it is located that mayor of the People's Party, prominent member, of Castile and León. It's a situation in which there are suspicions of treatment for the company that has been adjudicated, by which Judge No. 2 of Santiago has opened an investigation. It's a situation in which there are findings that before opening the stakes there were ambulances already prepared in the concessionaires, ambulances of this company that proved to be adjudicate; a situation that we qualify as low-fearing, because the company to whom this bid was awarded made a lower offer than the others competing, even reaching a 12% discount, a 12% discount, which is resulting in obvious problems with this service. If you make the cheapest offer with the highest technical offer it's impossible to match numbers, it's impossible, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Don't tell me you're with your head, because it's impossible to say that you're going to make everything cheaper by paying the workers and workers what they want and having the material, the ambulances and everything, in the maximum conditions and with the maximum benefits. This is a situation where there is no control by the integrated management organization structures, which are the ones that are responsible for doing this control. No controls on the number or time of ambulances serving in hospitals, no protocols or disinfection records of these ambulances. They're using support ambulances in a way, of course, by scratching illegality, especially by scratching recklessness. There are companies that have in each area the number of support ambulances and the service they have to provide this same company. We're finding ourselves that the company that's been in charge of urgent transport has ambulances even other companies, ambulances with the endowment of a single person who goes to the ambulance, without any support, without any technician, just the driver. They're using these ambulances not for exceptional cases, not for timely support cases, but they're sending these ambulances to accidents, infarctions, real emergency situations, emergency situations, with these ambulances that are not of advanced vital service and with one person. We have denounced the situation of the workers and workers of these law firms, who are denouncing the breach of the agreement. They refuse to negotiate an agreement, there are wage freezes, there are bad conditions on many bases. The convention ended its vigil on 31.12.2015. He'd have to be more than negotiated another convention and he's not. And with all this it is clear that the quality of care is worsening, with the use of these concerted ambulances as support. And it's also reported that it's becoming a rule that, instead of hiring staff under the same conditions as the staff that is already in, you're using the contract in practice by companies. We have workers in practices with less rights and less wages, and they're trying to consolidate this situation of precarious work. In short, a whole chain of non-compliances is being produced that affect the operation of the ambulance service. The workers and the workers are being harmed, and obviously the patients and the quality of care. And these non-compliances are danced by the law firms, but it's obvious that the responsibility is Sergas, 061, who know perfectly what the situation is and are not doing anything at all. That is why the BNG is here today presenting a motion derived from the appeal of the previous plenary, and what we are asking for is the correction in the policy of primaryizing the economic criteria on the quality of care, what we are asking is explanations of what the situation is, reports of what the management is being done, of the controls being carried out on the provision of the service by the companies. And it's a motion that demands that the public administration exercise control. Because what is there is evidence that there is no control over concessions, and that means risk to the health and life of patients, means risk to workers and violations of their rights. What we are asking, in short, in this initiative, is that the policy correction of this initiative is to correct the policy of primary the economic criteria on the quality of care, that this monitoring and control work is being carried out on the provision of the service; that the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the tender of the urgent health transport service service is in this initiative is this correction of the policy of the policy to prioritize the economic criteria on care quality, that this monitoring and control work is being carried out on the provision of the service; that the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the competition of the urgent health transport service service; that the present in this Parliament of Galicia, and at this session, a report disaggregated by each EOXIII, by each integrated management organisation structure, by each integrated management organisation structure, where that evaluation of that assessment is being collected, that control isrequired , that the service is being carried out in the provision of the provision of the provision of the service provided by the service provider of emergencyservices , emergencyservices , emergencyservices , emergency services being being being being aconstant ; and services being being provided by staff services provided by thestaff , andstaff , and staff who are being provided in thestaff , and staff who are provided in theother , and staff who are in theright , without the resources of the resources of the other privatehospitals , while without theresources , and staff in the resources of theother , while without the resources of the resources of the other privatehospitals , and staff of the resources of the staff of the resources of the staff of the staff of theother , while without the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the resources of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the resources of the staff of the staff of the staff of the resources of the staff of the staff of the staff of the resourcesprovided , while while while while while while while while while while while while while while while in thejob , and who are in the task of the task of the task of the task of the job as they are in the job as they are being being being being being being being being being being being being being being being being beingprovided , and thejob , and the job as they are in thejob , when they are in the job as they are in thejob , when they are in the job as they are being being being being being being being being beingbeing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u97	...that they guarantee the working rights of workers and workers who provide their services; and finally that they open the files that must be opened for the non-compliance that is taking place. Waiting for the support of the rest of the House's groups, for now and many thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. We will undoubtedly support the initiative being presented. We believe that what is being considered about health transport is basically consistent and correct with the position we have been defending publicly for some time. It gathers the foundation of what we think, and we have clearly expressed our position. We propose, in addition, an amendment to supplement, an amendment asking for data, asking for information. We're the ones who usually ask for data. I know the People's Group doesn't like it and they always vote against us when we ask for data and reports. We have the strange desire to use data, information, to try to develop our positions. And we ask — curses from ourselves — data and reports on things, as we have added in this proposal, with the intention of being able to make as well-optimized proposals as possible and to contribute, in a way, to improving the operating system, a system that is now clearly inefficient. It's inefficient, first, in its management. We have several deficits in the technical management of land health transport. Why? First of all, because we have staff making enormous efforts, staff in working conditions, besides, difficult, that are not being received, that are not being cared for. And it's the staff who have to drive ambulances in extreme situations, who have to meet urgently, personnel who respond to vital needs very, very, very necessary — worth redundancy, and that we have to have at least one decent working condition. There are failures and inefficiencies in the operating plans themselves. The time criteria that the Council itself marks are not met. Patients are exchanged in gas stations, and in this country patients are exchanged in gas stations. Support ambulances are used to cover emergencies, when support ambulances should not be used to cover emergencies and, however, are used. No one gives any explanation about this. There's a clear lack of resources, we don't have the necessary medical ambulances, the SVAs. Why? Because, simply, they're expensive. So there's someone who decides that it's very expensive to have a necessary ambulance, even if it saves lives, because they have a price. And, of course, other things are a priority when it comes to managing. We therefore consider that there is a clear inefficiencies, but, of course, we are surprised that it is always a question of essentially economic resources, when we then see things like inefficiencies in the concession itself. We're talking about a service that in its concession--they're first very cheap concessions, and then we have to put on, put on and put on, as in the works of the low-fearing, which then we have to put on, put on and put on, and, after all, as my grandmother said, the cheap gets expensive. Then you have to put money on, put money on, and at the end you ask yourself if who's in charge of the concessions is the Counsellor who offers a service or the company that acquires the concession. Who runs the Health Council concession policy? Who's driving it? In the case of building hospitals we already know: private builders. And in this case, who's driving her? Because we have a lot of doubts, or, what's worse, few. Because we are faced with a grant of EUR 121.6 million for ambulances that were labelled, equipped and waiting before the tender was put forward, labelled and equipped before the contest — EUR 121.6 million —. Of course, there aren't so many doubts as to who runs the Public Service recruitment processes in this case. But, of course, when these inefficiencies exist, of course we share these motions, and others. And what surprises us is that no one gives an explanation. We're talking about very serious situations. I repeat again: EUR 121.6 million. It gives the feeling that someone is making oppositions to the president of the PP in the Community of Madrid, and goes in the right direction, good merits. [[Applause]] So I already know that you're going to tell us that we're always with the same canteen, that this is a disaster, that we can't be saying it's all wrong. It's not all wrong, but the things that are wrong — that unfortunately are more than we want — you have to say them. And I would like, if we were to be opposed — which is fine — to do so by explaining things like this to us: EUR 121.6 million for ambulances that were before the contract, before the contract and concession were opened, before the contest, stored, waiting, labeled after Sergas, equipped... Ignacio González would be proud. We can always be wrong, we can even kick. But we'll never put our hands on it, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u100	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u101	Thank you, President. From Marea we will of course support this motion, which is also in line with the proposals we have already tabled in committee. We do not rarely debate in this Parliament the situation of 061 and the health transport generally in our country, the result of multiple protests, strikes and struggles of workers and workers for claiming their rights. This time, again, they're right now accompanying those 112 templates, which take more than a week of indefinite strike precisely because the Galician Union refuses to sit with them and they are negotiating the conditions of a transfer that has been made effective without a negotiation with the representatives of workers and workers. As far as the competition is concerned, we have also moved our position at its own time. We consider this investigation to be a very serious fact because of this alleged pre-emption in that competition initiated in 2014, and judged in 2015 by 121 million euros. We understand that all these cases of corruption that are coming out is evidence that the Administration is not, of course, acting in a transparent way, against what is being moved on a lot of clear occasions. And we asked in his moment for light and appearance on this circumstance, and, as usual, the only thing we found was total silence. Of course, in this respect we support this proposal that is being made today. On the steps that must be taken to implement measures to improve and support this health transport service, we have also brought them on another occasion, and here the circumstances of support ambulances have been trivialized. We have already told the Health Committee that it was very serious that a resource which, in our view, did not have to exist, but that, in theory, there existed as a possible circumstance of, precisely — worth redundancy — that support, if it was being used in a regular way. I don't think health workers and health workers, these techniques and techniques, lie about their work; among other things, because they are in very serious situations, as if they've already moved to us, in which they sometimes have to choose between attending to the person who goes back or driving the ambulance. And yes, they told us that they are being used — so for us, fraudulent — at times when there is a vital commitment. We've already said that if you've notified us of any deaths. And therefore, obviously, as we call for in the Health Committee, today we also support here the withdrawal of these support ambulances. We believe that they should be replaced by 100 percent of the 061 resources and, of course, with two technical persons in the case of assistance ambulances. We have also proposed — and we support it here today — both in the budgets and in the Commission itself, on the number of ambulances that consider precisely the technical associations, and also the trade union centres, that it would be necessary to implement, both with regard to the assistance ambulances and the mobile UVIs in our country in order to provide a proper service. Mrs Prado has made a storyteller here, and also the spokesman of the Socialist Party, about the problems we have raised in recent years and which are experiencing a lack of resources. We must remember that about eight years ago, some of the services have been abolished. There have been timely complaints in many places. I recall precisely the debate we had — as we said in the Commission — about villages such as Baiona and other centres that were tourists and that were left without that health transport. At present — and precisely those ambulance technicians and techniques — need to be moving the ambulances of other municipalities in order to be able to make the transport urgent, with absolute precaution where at times there are no means of transport to make that transfer. It is obvious, therefore, that more resources need to be implemented to provide this service correctly. And we also believe that all requests for information must be implemented in this Parliament, because today's reality is that we continue to request information, both in the 5th Commission and in the plenary itself and requests for Article 9, which are not satisfied. In short, we understand that this service should be 100 percent public, that the reality is that these workers have the right to adequate working conditions, and that we are going to support the non-law proposal in this regard. Tomorrow we'll talk about 112. And I, of course, appreciate that the workers and workers of the 061 also support those comrades and companions who are on strike in a very dignified manner more than a week ago. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. The first thing I want to point out is the difficulty of responding to a motion of ten rather complex points in a five-minute time. But, well, I'll try to adjust as much as possible and talk about all the points that give me time. We agree, Mrs Prado, that urgent health transport is a vital service. But from the People's Parliamentary Group we think that the Government of Galicia considers it so. Of course, we disagreed with the rest of his intervention, both today and in the past interpellation, which was the reason why this initiative was presented. The Public Emergency Health Foundation in Galicia called for a contest and assisted the service in various lots and to different companies, not to a single company. And you say that it is done in low fear when you know that this concept is perfectly defined on the basis of any competition, which refers to Article 85 of the General Regulation of the Law on Public Administration Contracts. At the first point of his motion he asked the German Government to rectify its policy of primaryizing the economic criteria on the quality of the tenders. And I ask you to make that recommendation to the Concello de Carballo, which has on the web the adjudication of the premises of the home aid service and which score with 55 points for the economic offer and 10 points for human, material and technical resources. You also ask at another point of the motion that the German Government guarantee the working rights of workers. And I return to the same plea, at the request of the Carballo SAF, who says, "The Town Hall recognizes the right to collective bargaining of the workers of the service subject to this contract, although it will not in any case take part directly in the previous negotiation nor take any part in the execution of the agreements reached by both parties." Why isn't the German Government yes and the BNG Government of Carballo? These Carball workers expressed to this spokesman serious labour problems with a company that hires them, and they met with the mayor and the government without achieving any results of any kind. Even at yesterday's plenary session, the mayor stated that it was not his competence and that they would comply with it, and that they would file a complaint — which was what the advisor said — and that, once there is a firm resolution, in fact, that would be valid to terminate the competition or adjudication. In addition to anecdotes, in the past he made very serious accusations on parliamentary immunity in connection with the appeal for the adjudication of this service. I suppose, Mrs. Prado and Mr. Torrado, that everything they say here that was done in that contest will have been denounced in the trial. Of course, the eleven appeals before the Madrid Central Administrative Court of Contractual Resources have been settled in favour of the Administration. And of the three cases before the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia, there is a ruling in favour of the Greek administration. It also speaks in the motion for Watch and Control, and it was also stated in parliamentary headquarters that there is a commission of transport of the foundation itself, an internal working group made up of workers representing the different areas of the foundation, and in addition that the foundation itself carries out periodic inspections of all vehicles. The assessment of compliance with the quality indicators of the services collected in the nail said the advisor here who reached, averaged 94% of all companies. You ask that the use of the support ambulance be prevented as an emergency health transport. He also stated that this represented 3.88 % of all services rendered and that these ambulances have been used since 1988. Of course, the one used in Carballo — which is a company — has even a DESA, a defibrillator, in the ambulance itself. And they're talking about the exclusivity of the resources of 061 for your job by Sergas. I'd like to know if that means that if an official goes to the emergency room with an infarction, as he has a private insurance, he can't go to an ambulance in Sergas. Or another: traffic accidents have been mentioned, and traffic accidents are covered by private companies, private insurance. Is it legal or not legal for an ambulance in 061 to transfer a sick person from them and then pass the bill to Sergas — which is how it was done and how it was always done —? Of course, this universal health thing is going through bits as well. With regard to the number of resources being used, the advisor explained that there are 2 medical helicopters, 11 advanced life support ambulances and 106 basic life support, which is a higher than the number in the nails. By the way, between 2005 and 2009 — as we speak in this Parliament — no single ambulance was acquired or held — in the years those of the Champions League, the money, the money and the things that were there. And before and after they were hired. Probably at a given time, because, indeed, in some area there is a need for more. But during those years, of course, nothing was done at all. Look, Mrs. Prado, I also talked to workers of this service and they showed me that, within the possibilities of actually negotiating an agreement — which is a right and which must be done — they are better than they were before, they charge more than they had before, they have better materials than they had before and they have new ambulances that they didn't have before. And, of course, as far as labelling is concerned, I'm not going to say anything. You said they don't put Sergas. They don't put "Sergas," they put "Health Council," together with Galicia, 061, health emergencies." I think it's quite easy to distinguish from what's agreed upon, I think it's absolutely easy. That's what you said in the plenary. Actually, it doesn't put "Sergas," I don't think it's necessary to put it. Look, Your Honor, we're in front of the best-valued healthcare service by the citizenry. There's a survey that says that 98.9 % of those who used it would use it again, give you a 9.1 over 10 points. And from the Popular Parliamentary Group we want to congratulate the staff of the foundation and the different companies for their work. We believe this work is what makes this service copied by many autonomous communities. We're not going to support your motion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u104	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the motion's own group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u105	Well, persist and persist. I don't know who of you'll play the role of Esperanza Aguirre and come and say after: Well, I haven't watched enough. No, keep looking the other way, it's okay! Here you keep looking somewhere else that's okay. Let's go for a little bit. First, Mr. Centeno, will you be the candidate of the People's Party for the Mayor of Carballo? I'm saying it because, as you come here to campaign... well, it's because you know, uh, because you know... [[Applause]] Look, another question, you say what the counselor said, repeated the counselor's data, which is only used as 3.98% support ambulances. What would you think if he touched you or a relative of yours when he had an infarction or an accident, a 3.98 percent? How would you feel if I got there an ambulance with no means with a driver to meet a vital emergency? Bad luck, right? It would be bad luck if you were one of these 3.98%. What happens is that the Members and Members of the People's Party think that they will never happen to you, they think that this situation that I described here and that you have not been able to beat up — because I didn't say that all ambulances were out of label, but there are ambulances without labeling — they will never happen to you or any of your family members, will they not? They believe that when you pass through them and have an emergency, you can always call on another phone or other resource, that nothing of these matters will happen to you. But I'm afraid so, and I'm afraid that when they pass, they remember that they voted not to watch. Why do you say the BNG initiative? Of course, of course, when it happens, they'll say, "Well, they were right! They were right, which turns out not all the resources are in a position; they were right, that they send emergency support ambulances when they couldn't do that. Because, look, you know what the BNG initiative is asking for? Basically controlling the company. And you're going to vote but not the one who exercises the monitoring and control work on the provision of the service. What do we say? Exercising compliance with the conditions laid down in the invitation to tender. You're not going to vote! Okay, perfect. What do we ask? Let a report be submitted to Parliament on the evaluation — which sets out the request — be submitted. And you are going to vote that no, that no evaluation is done and that Parliament is not brought in, that there is no use of support ambulances not equipped for emergency health transport. They're going to vote no! When they vote that they don't, they mean yes, that they really think they're going to support ambulances without personnel and emergency supplies. Well, they're going to vote yes, I think it's all right. To which the number of ambulances established in the prayers is demanded, they will vote only. Perfect, perfect, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! I insist: I hope that if you see one of these situations, you remember — just like when you voted not to care for the sick of hepatitis C and other things — that when you press the button it has consequences. The BNG presents here all this battery of resolutional part requesting that it be rectified, controlled, monitored and filed when necessary. Look at what strange things BNG is asking, which you would have to do on your own, which is demeaning that you should come to Parliament to ask what the Government should do on your own.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u107	Because you know the Council, you know Sergas, you know 061 and you know her, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. What they don't want to do is do nothing, with which the government is responsible, and you're complicit and consensors that this is the situation you're in, and that it's getting worse. Complicants and consenters of that situation. You sleep peacefully at night. I hope so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u109	And I really hope that you will be in the situation of other patients so that they will say, "Oh, you can touch me, too."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u111	You might as well be able to touch them someday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u112	Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u113	Sorry, I accept the Socialist Party's amendment because I think it has an impact on what the BNG is asking for. And I also thank En Marea for supporting the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u114	Thank you. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, on the registration in the Register of the Property Property of the Catholic Church
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u115	Two amendments have been tabled, one from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the other from the Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u116	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u117	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good afternoon, almost. It's April 25th. Yesterday the Portuguese Prime Minister, socialist, said that building confidence in democracy is the best way we can defend democracy, the best way we can give it life. And from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we think that this motion that we bring today, which is walking towards the confederation of the state, will strengthen — or should strengthen — confidence in democracy and democracy itself, not only strengthening. [[Applause]] Two weeks ago we said in this same forum that you, Members of the People's Party, should copy the progressive liberals who made demortization in Spain. But unfortunately, in the speech that came to us here, which came to tell us, Vice President Rueda seemed to be more of those moderates who were working with the Catholic Church in the 19th century and paralysed the demoralizing process so that the State would support the clergy, consider Catholicism to be the State's religion and recognize the Church the possibility of acquiring all kinds of goods. That same spirit — we said moderately — was what inspired José María Aznar, who was president of the Government two hundred years later, to reform the mortgage regulation and not to strengthen, in our understanding, democracy. Three weeks ago we set an shameful example of this reform of the year 1998, which was the registration of the Córdoba mosque for 30 euros in favor of the Catholic Church; the Córdoba mosque that the Socialist Parliamentary Group believes cannot be inscribed on behalf of anyone because it is the World Heritage; it must be out of the trade of men, and much less the name of the Catholic Church. And so also was the secretary of the Córdoba Council to the Municipal Group of the People's Party. When they asked him, he said that the shameful prayer that King Fernando III had made to Bishop Lope of Fitero in the 13th century was not enough for registration. Exactly the same, eight centuries later, to register the Córdoba mosque for 30 euros is not to strengthen confidence in democracy. Today we bring a motion that aims to recover those unregistered assets in favour of the Catholic Church from that Royal Decree of 1998, when the reform of José María Aznar, president of the People's Party at that time and president of the Government, allowed them to register for the Church and to improperly approach many immovables as if it were a bird of rapture. This attitude has been denounced by all kinds of platforms, by citizens' representatives, by diminishing rights and property over public domain. What do we want from the Socialist Parliamentary Group with this motion? Three basic things: first of all, we want to know the effects that Galicia has had on the implementation of this royal decree -- an intriguing theme between the governments of the People's Party and the Catholic Church. The vice president himself came here, said he had no data, because he didn't know, because it was data that the registrants had, that the government didn't have them, and that, therefore, he couldn't give us that data. Interestingly, two parliaments, which are not suspected of being Marxist-Leninists, the Basque and the Navarro, if they have that data and if they shared it with those municipalities where they were well inscribed in the name of the Catholic Church, precisely so that those municipalities, those municipalities, could go to the judges through the timely legal actions and claim, if possible, better rights over those goods. Therefore, that discourse of impossibility of intimate connection between the Catholic Church and the Government of the People's Party fell sharply, and we ask here that the Government of Greece and the Government of the State insist that a study of the goods which were registered in Galicia in favor of the Catholic Church from the Royal Decree of 1998. If it could be done in Euskadi and Navarre, we understand that we will have that possibility in the Galician Parliament as well. The second thing we're asking is for the Government to analyze the property titles that the land registers brought. It seems — according to news from us — that the Directorate-General for Registers and notaries gave no instructions to the registrants of the property for registrations. And we asked them if you know, whether or not the German registrants received this kind of instruction. If so, we'd like you to answer our request. And finally, and thirdly, we understand that it is necessary to put in place actions to prevent consolidation, not only of property, but also of any other kind of real right in favour of the Catholic Church, in order to be able to recover those goods that have been improperly registered, public domain goods and those that, not yet listed as public domain, cannot be registered by anyone. What we asked them to do is to end with a privilege in favor of the Catholic Church — and more — if the inscriptions they made didn't have a title that justified them or if they couldn't be done because the goods were in the public domain. We believe it is essential that we once and for all compensate for the perverse effects of the amendment of the mortgage regulation that was made by Aznar in 1998 and that you defend. It's high time we took firm steps to the confederation of the State, because this registration in favor of the Catholic Church, these varied, multiples and many registrations are probably a clear example that confessionality was not a reality and that it was treated and treated the Catholic Church as if it were a public institution, if it wasn't, it's a private institution. Here is the tax allocation of 0,7 % in the IRPF, the tax exemptions and subsidies, such as the property tax, and up to what point and time the Church intends to benefit from public money, if it has to submit to the principle of transparency and control by the Board of Auditors. We understand that this motion we bring here today is of justice, and, as I said at the outset, it serves to strengthen democracy in itself -- including in that transparency and control of the brushes in the churches to collect alms -- and all because in that real decree of the year 1998 they have forgotten two fundamental principles: first, that to arrive at the Register of Property does not create rights -- inscriptions do not create rights -- and, in addition, that there are certain goods of public domination, there are certain properties of the World Heritage — as I said, the Córdoba mosque — that have a much more important rule hierarchically than the divine law, which is the Constitution of the year 1978. That's our request. We have asked you to ask the General Directorate of the Registers and the Notariatate to ask the General Directorate of the Registers and the Notariats to claim a study with the relationship of the unregistered goods in Galicia in favour of the Catholic Church since 1998 from the Royal Decree of 4 September 1998 ; it is not difficult if in Navarra and in Euskadi, I repeat, it has done so if it is done so; they refer in six months a copy to this House of this House which, after the end of 1998, we represent to all citizens of Galicia until these matters are resolved ; we can also do a copy of which were those goods; let the Government of the State be asked a five-year extension of the deadline provided for in the Spanish Historical Historical Historical Historical Heritage Law so that all the Catholic Church is prevented from selling or transferring the goods until these matters are resolved; and we will also be able to start all kinds of action to prevent the rule of the Catholic Church from being established by itself, and other kinds of real rights on these good that they have failed to ensure that they failed to achieve and have accomplished. and you establish and you establish as you to establish as you to make as you as you as you establish. and as you establish. as you as you establish. as you establish. as you as you as you can. as you can achieve. as as you can achieve. as you can achieve. as as as as as you can propose. as you have has has accomplished. Then I'll talk about the amendments tabled by the BNG and also by the En Marea Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u119	Thank you, President. To the thread of the debate on this subject, which seems to me to be of the utmost interest, I would like to express our concern at the discrepancies which have been noted in recent days in the People's Group on a question which had to do with the statement to the court of the Couña Cultural Councillor, José Manuel Sande; the discrepancy, we can say, between the Puy position and the Tellado position. Even though we remained calm, because Mr. Puy publicly said, "We are not a panda of clumps," he said that they have discrepancies or that they may have differences. But well, in this case, I think you have won the position, unfortunately, officer, the position of Mr Tellado. Of course, we are more in agreement with what Mr Puy said, in the sense that an abuse of the criminal procedure is being done to resolve issues that could be resolved in the civil sphere, in the field of the right to honor and in the administrative dispute. I hope they're going to solve the differences and, in any case, they're going to dominate the position of thinking what they say and saying what they think. With regard to the question that is brought here today, for, well, it is supposed to put the focus back on -- we have done it in full fifteen days ago -- in the privileges of the Catholic Church, and also -- although you do not like to remember that -- in the franchise heritage; the franchise inheritance that this implies, the inheritance of national Catholicism, that Church that supported and enthusiastically legitimized the crusade, genocide and dictatorship. By the way, a situation that remained in time after 1977 and 1999, when a new agreement was signed with the Vatican, with the Holy See, for all the governments that passed through Moncloa over these forty years. That state of the matter, that state of democratic exception, we can say, has been maintained over the course of time, over these forty years, with that constant confusion to which we attend every day between the Church and the State. We have just attended the public media, the media, the Holy Week processions; that anachronism of processions where the Army, the Legion, participates in singing "I am the bridegroom of death". This can only be described as an anachronism which must be eradicated because it goes against the most fundamental principles of a democracy: the treatment of favor, the privileged presence of the Church in all fields, essentially in teaching; it has also recently emerged the question of hospitals, the advantages and tax privileges in this regard, for example, of the IRPF, the tax exemption, IBI, heritage, societies, or the theme that it occupies us today, which is the privilege of being able to register goods without having to prove property, simply by a signature of the representative of the archbishop, of the bishop, and with absolute opacity, because even the Catholic Church has prerogatives and privileges that do not have public administrations, because it does not have to submit to public information these records. This led not only to the case of the Córdoba mosque, which may be the most resonant, but to the exercise of an authentic right of eternity with the policeman, the appropriation - it is considered - of more than 5,000 properties - only in the case of Navarra were detected more than 1,000 - and we are not talking only about goods dedicated to worship, but about all kinds of goods. It is true — as was said in the previous plenary — that there has been a regulatory change in 2015, a change in legislation and the mortgage regulation, but this issue has not solved some fundamental questions: firstly, to know exactly the goods that are registered, i.e. advertising, and also the question of retroactivity with regard to inscriptions that have been made in a way that we can only consider as unfair and illegal, because there are even rulings by the Supreme Court that question the constitutionality of such measures. We therefore feel that this initiative is appropriate. In addition, there is a recent agreement a few weeks ago from the State Parliament that urges, precisely through a non-law proposal, the State, the Government of the State, to the recovery of goods and also to the relationship between these goods. And in that sense also the adds of BNG to make a public inventory of the assets registered by the Catholic Church since 1998 and also to take steps to recover those goods registered by the Church. We think that this agreement would help to end with the privileges, with that state of democratic exception that favours the Catholic Church, and also begin to overcome the inheritance of frankism, that treatment of favor of what the Catholic Church enjoys. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u120	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u121	Thank you, President. Good for all. We too, from the Marea Group, will support this PSdeg initiative with an addendum that we will explain at the end of my intervention. So to begin with, I want to say that the position of our group on how the relationship between religious confessions should be and the state is quite clear in this regard — we have expressed it on another occasion very recently — and we defend as a basic right the freedom of worship, but we believe that this must be confined exclusively to the private sphere of each person. We want to insist very much on this issue. It can't even be an option that a particular religion influences on state structures and public powers. Unfortunately, we see this separation as dubious, not only in Galicia, but also throughout the Spanish State, where Catholic religion always exerts a great influence on our democratic structures. Without going too far in time, specifically last Holy Week, the banners of the barracks waved half to commemorate the anniversary of Christ's passing, something that is absolutely surreal, in our opinion, for a state that declares itself aconfessional. Just as Mrs Cospedal must not have understood this article of the Constitution correctly and therefore approved this action. Acts like what I've just mentioned show us that this separation between the Church and the State is still too far from being a reality. One thing is the private sphere and another is the public. I, for example, can be in favour -- I have made it clear here too -- of certain statements by Pope Francis, but that doesn't mean at all that he is in favor -- or that we are in favor -- that the Church is trying to condition the structures of the State itself. The possibility of professing one or another religion, or none -- which is also another option -- must never supplant another fundamental right either, because there are people we choose, as is my case, for not professing any religion at present, which is freedom of activity and expression as well. For example, recently it happened - it was mentioned by the Group of the BNG - a case in the Coruña where the cultural concierge, José Manuel Sande, will have to declare before the judge by a poster from the Entroido that reproduces the drawing of a person disguised as pope. That justice intervenes in acts like this, when we see cases and cases of corruption every day in the media -- today also, again, the festival of corruption -- it's absolutely shocking and incomprehensible. Yes, it's incomprehensible and shocking, but it's not something that we just say, from our group -- and it's something that has already been said -- Mr. Puy, your spokesman, one of the statements to the media this past weekend, said one thing that has the whole logic of the world, and for us, for our group, is to thank someone in the People's Group for maintaining wisdom on these issues too. He said that the open process against Mr. Sande made him feel uncomfortable because it provoked in justice a waste of effort and resources, while other matters more relevant from the economic and social point of view suffer delays. The next day, we met with public statements from both Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Tellado disallowing Mr. Puy's words. So you should agree with your advisers because, in the end, we don't really know what the People's Group thinks about this. Returning to the subject of the privileges of the Catholic Church, we see how through the public administrations throughout the Spanish State organizations and institutions related to the Church receive a total amount of between 9,000 and 11,000 million euros annually, 1% of GDP, where, for example, in teaching, this county can reach close to 5,000 million euros between grants, concerted centres and pay to teachers who share Catholic religion. This is something unacceptable to ensure the separation of Church and State. So to be more specific, it is estimated that about throughout Galicia we no longer perceive an average of 3 million euros a year, because the Church buildings do not pay the taxes on immovable property, a figure that would have a very positive impact on the Greek municipalities, financially drowned by the disastrous Montor Law, and these, for example, can increase the share for social spending or to promote public policies for municipal employment. The Church has privileges like these, which also affect the whole of society, and we cannot agree on this matter. So, and to finish, that's why we're going to defend this motion of the Socialist Party of Galicia as a first step, since it's necessary to know the goods registered in Galicia in favor of the Catholic Church; a first step necessary for the Church to start paying once and for all the IBI, because these are money that is directly taken from citizenship and that must necessarily be invested again in them. That's why we make the addition amendment to urge the Government of the State to review the agreements signed with the Holy See to allow the properties of the Catholic Church to pay the taxes on immovable property. No more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me begin by replying to Mr Bará because, as well as you began your presentation, how sad that criterion of distinction between what is criminal and administrative was not so clear when there were seven accused of the Government of Santiago! Right, charged with a strictly administrative matter, to those whom you have slaughtered unpunished and who, thank God, ended up in a complete acquittal of any responsibility. Too bad I didn't make it so clear! It's a shame I'm not sure you can disagree, but how you do it in the People's Party. [[Applause]] The last discrepancy of you already sees what cost them, they're practically nothing, and we know you can't afford another, if you don't want to disappear. But I'm going to get into the subject of the debate; interesting debate that brings us to Mrs Vilan, where she intends, yes, to introduce certain variables a little distant from the reality that show the facts. I think, Mrs Vilan, that doesn't strengthen democracy. Mrs Vilan wanted two weeks ago, and today she also wants to show the popular party's convolence with ecclesial curia, in contrast to the ever-combative position of the PSOE in defense of the interest of the secular people almost always — and I stress that of "almost always"—dangered and voracious Catholic Church. Mrs Vilán blames a supposed massive inscription of immovable property by the Church for a change in the mortgage regulation made during the government of President Aznar; an amendment, to Article 5, which literally said "that immovable property of public domain may also be subject to registration in accordance with its special legislation." In this essay Mrs Vilán appreciates the legislator's desire to favour the Catholic Church, forgetting to mention, that is, that such a change is due to a question of unconstitutionality, as it is also explicitly collected in the royal decree, which literally says: "The ban on the registration of temples destined for Catholic worship is unconstitutionally suppressed." Therefore, I think it is clear that where Mrs Vilán appreciates the relevance, there is only the will to comply with a Constitutional Court judgment. Obviously, Mrs Vilán knows this, but she needs an excuse to be able to turn the People's Party and, by the way, to slip the bulk by concealing the double morals of the socialists in relation to this issue, because the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that the supposed privilege of the Church to which Mrs Vilán refers is that it allows her to register immovable goods by issuing certifications comparable to certain public officials. It is collected in Article 206 of the Mortgage Law, which dates from February 8, 1946. And of course, Mrs. Vilán needs a crutch that allows her to hide... that supposed privilege which today has been denouncing during the fourteen years of Mr. Felipe González's presidency, without being approached at any time his derogation or his modification. [[Murmurs.]] Although it is also true that Mrs. Vilán's crusade remains somewhat scarce because it does not explain why that fiendish maneuver of Mr. Aznar's government in 1998 was not corrected during the eight years of Mr. Zapatero's government superprogressive, which did not move a finger to correct this issue nor was it undertaken by its partners at that time. Mrs Vilan, among the many abuses that have occurred, you think, is that of the mosque in Córdoba, which is both the outrage, and which was registered on 2 March 2006, two years after Mr Zapatero acceded to the Presidency of the Government of Spain. So you didn't think it was a good time to take those measures that today require the Government of the People's Party? Of course not, because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the position of the socialists regarding the state-church relations varies according to the institutional space they occupy. If socialists govern, they appeal to loyalty, respect and mutual trust, as Ms. Teresa de la Vega said, reaching the Government of Mr. Zapatero with the Episcopal Conference a new agreement on the financing model, which, of course, does not hesitate to criticize yourself; according to what you have reached. Instead, when they are in the opposition, they replace this stance with fierce criticism, the impulse of secularism, they question the Holy See's Concordate, they demand the elimination of the tax allocation that you yourself have agreed on, or, as proposed today in an amendment, they demand the elimination of the bonus of the IBI, which is not totally subsidized, only for what is foreseen: elements destined for worship, support for clergy and the exercise of charity. Of course, nothing is said in this amendment about the other beneficiaries of the same exemption from the IBI, namely: state real estate, communities and local entities affected by citizen security or educational and prison services affected by national defence, communal goods, joint neighbouring mountains, non-Catholic confessional associations, Muslim mosques, Jewish synagogues, evangelist churches, the Red Cross, diplomatic, consular representation, foreign official bodies, railway lines, railway stations, warehouses and any other service indispensable to the railway service, educational centres, monuments and historic gardens, archaeological areas, historical assemblies, forest rest areas, without forgetting this, foundations and public utility associations, NGOs, sports federations, the Olympic Committee, the Paralympic Committee, and the Kingdom Committee, as well as the foundations. But you propose to withdraw this unique and exclusive benefit to the Catholic Church. Of course, because of their concern for religious and social non-discrimination, which is nothing more than a disguise for a deep sectarianism, the fruit of their anti-clerical feeling, nothing more than that. [[Applause]] Your Honor, I believe that the intervention of Vice President Rueda during the interpellation was very clear: the registration privileges of the Catholic Church no longer exist because they have disappeared thanks to a reform of the Mortgage Law made by the Government of the People's Party; a change that has been made according to you, that they have requested the elimination of a holiday law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u124	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u125	...to avoid massive registrations, and so he woke up. The data you request do not work in the General Directorate of Registers and Notaries, but only in the registers of the property of each district. And in addition, the question that brings us is not of autonomous competence. In short, Your Honor, I hope you will begin to show some coherence and keep in opposition positions similar to those held in the Government, reasonable postures and not nonsense like those you mentioned yourself when fifteen days ago, quoting Julio Caro Baroja, said that "the total extinction of religious orders is the most gigantic step we have taken...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u127	...at the present time and a real act of reform and revolution." That's why you don't count on the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u128	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u129	We believe that tolerance, respect for civil liberties and collaboration with all confessions is a democratic reform worthy of defence, and there you will always find us if you want to reach agreements.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u130	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u131	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u132	Author group of the motion, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u133	Thank you, President. My grandmother had a saying in her head: "The foolish words, the deaf ears." And so I'm going to apply that saying and I'm going to decide to answer who I think I have to answer in my intervention. [[Murmurs.]] Nine years ago the Navarro Parliament decided... nine years ago the Navarro Parliament... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] President, I didn't interfere, I didn't bother, I'd like you to leave me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u134	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u135	...to end my intervention without sounding below. Thank you. Nine years ago the Navarro Parliament, at the request of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, was able to request data from the registers of the property which, of course, depend on the Directorate-General for Registers and the Notary, on those goods which were registered in Navarre in favour of the Catholic Church as a result of the Royal Decree of 1998. On the other hand, we are not entirely surprised at the position of the MPs of the People's Party and the MPs of the People's Party, who we understand will vote against, especially because this same Friday President Feijóo came to this House at the commemoration of the Council of Auditors saying that corruption — related to the Catholic Church — came from Adam and Eve and therefore from the original sin. And perhaps you with your vote right now what you're going to pretend is to forgive them the original sin of corruption that these days afflict us all, to each other much more than others. [[Applause]] We want to thank BNG and En Marea for their amendments. We're going to accept them in part and, if the president permits me, I'm going to read as the text will remain and then we'll pass it to the House services for them to have it. The first point is exactly the same: "Parliament urges the Joint Committee to request the Government of the State to claim what the general address, the study." The second point: "...which remits within an improbable six-month period a copy of this study to the Welsh House." The third point is part of the amendment to add BNG: "to request the Government of the State to carry out a public inventory of the goods registered by the Catholic Church in Galicia between 1998 and 2015. The fourth point would be the third of the Socialist Parliamentary Group motion. The fifth, a transaction between the amendment of the addition of the BNG and ours: "To put in place the legal actions and measures to prevent..." and the socialist text would continue. And the sixth point, the amendment as set out in the Amendment to Marea, that text. And, for our part, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. After the debate on the motions, we proceed to the vote on the motions. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u137	We started by voting for the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da María Monserrat Prado Cores. He said he accepted the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the ground health transport service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u138	And we now vote on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Patricia Vilán. You've already explained here the text that we're going to vote on, with the appropriate transactions. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, on the registration in the Register of the Property Property of the Catholic Church. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u139	We suspended the session until sixteen, thirty-four and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u140	Let's resume the session. Good afternoon. We resumed the session with agenda item 4, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and seven other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece to support the FP centres and the ICFP as the driving force behind innovation in the Italian business sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u141	This motion for a non-law was tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u142	Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u143	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. In 2000, the Lisbon European Council pointed out that the European Union faced the challenge of facing a huge change in globalization and the imperatives of a new knowledge-based economy. These changes would affect all areas of people's lives and require a radical transformation of the European economy. This step to a digital economy based on knowledge, fruit of new goods and services, had to be a powerful engine for growth, competitiveness and employment. And in this context, the promotion and development of vocational training plays a central role in the construction of 21st century society. We live in a constantly changing society, and that requires us to be prepared to face this changing and dynamic socio-economic reality. Vocational training is now one of the best tools to move forward and adapt to changes, as it allows young people to develop a work activity, providing the necessary professional skills and also facilitating adaptation to technological and organizational changes that characterize the labour market. It is known to everyone that the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order is making a strong commitment to strengthening the entrepreneurial culture in teaching, promoting the innovation and creativity of the student and also promoting the direct contact of the student with the productive fabric and the environment around them; a bet that has resulted in, in an era of economic crisis and rationalization of public spending, an important investment effort in vocational training centres to equip them with means and materials that allow them to adapt the teaching of vocational training to the demands of 21st century society. This effort has transformed the model of vocational training in Galicia to become state-level, since in the education system of Greece today more than 50,300 students are studying vocational training, which is supposed to double the number of enrolments in 2008 and which gives good account of the high demand of these studies, which are characterised mainly by innovative and quality training, job opportunities that are able to generate and the technology of the productive sectors. Vocational training must be one of the main drivers that contribute to boosting economic development and employability in our autonomous community, since these teachings have an important potential as a entrepreneurship, research and innovation farm for the development of our productive sectors. We must not forget that in recent years the offer of vocational training qualifications has earned in prestige and has also helped to meet the job integration expectations of the student. As you all know, according to the most recent data, we can say that about 80 percent of the graduates of vocational training have work; a clear proof that things are doing well. In this sense, in recent years vocational training has experienced a genuine silent revolution - even though this expression has given them grace - based on new cycles linked to the social reality of each area, in the commitment by integrated vocational training centres, in the development of business farmers and in the expansion of collaboration with the business world through training practices in work centres and dual vocational training. It is worth noting that the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order is making a strong commitment in recent years to dual vocational training as a fundamental way to further advance in the general impetus to vocational training. In this sense, in this course 2016-2017, 22 cycles of dual vocational training in Galicia, 15 of them completely new, which led to an increase in the offer of squares by 101%. But it is necessary to continue to enhance and strengthen this model in which the student supports training in the classroom with the work centre, since dual vocational training is a great opportunity for the business sector, because it offers the possibility of training in a specialized way and from the beginning the future worker. Therefore, it is necessary to re-evaluate vocational training by giving it the place it deserves in the education system and in society as a way of training for the innovative future and flexible to change. We are therefore faced with an ambitious horizon in which the fundamental objective is to articulate vocational training that responds to the demands of our productive sectors, to the technified society of this century and increases in addition to the qualification and employability of human capital. On this horizon, the line of work has to be directed towards a bet determined by the achievement of professional training that is useful for people and for Galician society; a vocational training that serves to enable people to develop knowledge, creativity and talent, because this, ladies and gentlemen, will have an impact on the advancement of Greek society. These prestigious professionals will be those who conform to our future society and those who can modernize, technify and bring solutions to the new challenges that mark our future. To achieve these objectives, we must continue to advance in the design of an educational offer adapted to the environment, in the approach and support of the company, in the empowerment of the network of integrated vocational training centres, in the generalization of dual vocational training, in vocational guidance, in the promotion of quality, in innovation and also, like, in entrepreneurship. At the same time, a key issue for achieving this goal is the involvement of the company in the training process. Vocational training must maintain very close links with the company, supporting, collaborating and promoting the entrepreneurship and development of projects that enable companies to move towards new strategic sectors, improve their production systems and incorporate innovative techniques. In this two-way relationship, vocational training centres have to be real drivers of innovation in the Italian business sector, for which, at the trial of this parliamentary group, the German Government has to boost a genuine network of innovation through the territorial deployment of integrated vocational training centres. It's about valuing the relationship between educational centers, innovation and companies so as to generate competitive contours of high strategic value. "Innovation," ladies and gentlemen, here's one of the key words to understand where the 21st century's vocational training should go. The continuous and rapid technological advances that are being made in society and in the labour market require versatile vocational training, which is constantly evolving, which incorporates new ideas and trends and has the ability to adapt to the changing needs of the productive world. Technological innovation in vocational training must be the lever that enables us to foster the transformation of knowledge and creativity into the improvement of processes, products or services that can lead to an increase in the competitiveness of our companies. At the same time, it will facilitate quality training in which the Greeks and the Greeks see their employability and their possibilities for professional screening and integration improved. In this context, vocational training must be the driving force behind the strengthening of the links between education and business, in order to foster entrepreneurship, knowledge and innovation, since entrepreneurship is a source of wealth around it by acting as an engine of innovation, competitiveness and growth of economies. Therefore, from the People's Parliamentary Group we wish to submit to this plenary agreement through which we call on the Government of Greece to support vocational training centres as true drivers of innovation in the Galician business sector and to take advantage of, in addition, the territorial deployment of integrated vocational training centres as a genuine network of innovation and relations with the productive world. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. Parliamentary groups are now involved. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u145	Good afternoon, everyone. The first thing we thought about seeing this initiative, or at least to me the first one that suggested, was a question: what is this? And what is this? Because to support vocational training centres in our country, as it collects the decisive part of the proposal - we in our amendment add what we believe is a key word, which is to support "public" vocational training centres, and then we will see it here in another initiative that we have registered for today, at the last hour of this session, and we will be able to speak very slowly about this - and, in particular, public vocational training centres, is a legal obligation for the board of Galicia. It's up to whoever holds the government in our country to support them. It is good that if we want to shake the action of the Executive from this House, in fact, from the Nationalist Block of Galicia, we also believe that it is not the policy of the Galician Union in the field of vocational training at hand and that it must therefore be renewed, but we did not just understand exactly what this initiative was meant to be for. In that sense, a little bit on that line, goes our amendment. Then, in the second round of interventions I suppose it will be positioned in respect of it. In that sense, with the amendment that we formulate by our group, on one side, what we remember is the obligation of the Galician Union - I say - not only to support, in abstract, the vocational training centres, but to provide these centres with the necessary resources both human, material and economic to offer what we believe must be a quality service to the whole of the student who wishes to pursue this type of more technical training. By the way - and I think it needs to be remembered - there have been many people, a very large number of students, not only in this course that is underway, but even in the previous course, who have been unable to pursue the first option that had been chosen by the lack of sufficient groups, in particular in those branches of vocational training that have greater demand. Meanwhile, we have found other vocational training centres, other areas of vocational training, which have a lot of open squares each year. In this respect from the Galego Nationalist Block, we believe that it is necessary - we also have it defended and debated in the Education Commission itself - which calls for rethinking the map of vocational training in our country in order to correct that imbalance with which we find ourselves in the offer, increasing it and bringing this formative modality closer to the students' own demands, in particular those students who live in the rural areas of the country and who are currently obliged to travel many kilometres to other county heads or even directly to go to live in the cities of their surroundings in order to be able to pursue their studies. And we've also been deeply fond of the evasive ones that are lacking in a collective transport worthy of such a name in our country. But we also believe from the BNG Parliamentary Group that supply should be brought closer to the industrial fabric and to the strategic sectors of the Greek economy. In order to develop Galicia of the future - we agree - we need to have a proper vocational training, which has the weight it has within the education system of this country, but look!; eye!, because in the exhibition part of the initiative itself we cannot agree on the perspective or focus since the formulation of vocational training by the People's Party. It is not possible to confuse vocational training by introducing it in the economic, industrial and productive reality of Greece by putting vocational training centres at the service of the interests of companies with the sole objective of cheap labour nutrition. You were talking about a high percentage of job insertion by students who are studying for vocational training, but the question we are asking is, what conditions?, with what type of recruitment? And, above all, how long do these contracts last? We believe that vocational training must, from some point of view, be turned into a sort of sort - I said earlier - into a kind of space to feed businesses — especially large companies — of cheap labour. And we must try to escape, from our point of view, those forms of vocational training, such as dual vocational training, which have been developing for many years in other territories and countries of the European Union, as Germany can do, and what we see is that it is not that students themselves are being trained better, but that they are making it easier for businesses themselves to hire labour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u147	...in some precarious conditions. For our own sake, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Mr Álvarez Martínez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Fernández Gil, if I were the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, I would order you to put the flags on average even without me mediating ministerial order in the middle, because, in fact, my own parliamentary group urges me to support something I've been defending for weeks and months, which I've been supporting since there are courses, it's at least a little interesting. [[Applause]] You're going to understand that you qualify this initiative as a self-starting initiative, with reference to those sprays that started the diesel engines in the 1970s, or self-stimulation, in any case, of a clearly endogenous nature. That is to say, if you want to come here to take a look at the vocational training of the Autonomous Community of Galicia by saying that we are a state-wide reference, I would also like to thank you — as some fellow member of my parliamentary group has pointed out — for making a reference to the wage level of vocational training graduates who enter the labour market thanks to this magnificent system, which is not bad, but it is not to warn the rocket maker either. Look, things as they are. So let's put things in their place. Tell you what to push. Who will deny the Lisbon agreements on education, the European Union agreements, the objectives, not necessarily shared by all the groups of this House but, in any case, consensus of Europe 2020 — 20-20, as some like — in any case, those objectives? Of course, yes, and we're going to support the initiative. Now, I also tell you one thing, you should look at -- or you should be informed correctly, at least because we don't all have to know at all -- the scope of that network of integrated vocational training centres and their relationship with dual vocational training, because, look, they haven't passed on to you correctly, because you have a sort of state-wide impulse to expand the network of integrated vocational training centres, as if they were the salvation of vocational training in the autonomous community. We are the autonomous community that most integrated centres have all over the state, different from the relative level we occupy. And what does that translate into? Little by little in relation to the expectations that were expected to meet, and therefore the level of efficiency of that network is much lower. In particular, you spoke — and you did well because I too would do so — prudently, without exaltation, of the dual vocational training network of this course, saying that 22 cycles of vocational training are being given. But you didn't mention that most of this dual vocational training refers to a few modules with very few squares. And besides, you didn't mention that in order to be able to put that network into operation — which is implemented in 9 municipalities of the entire autonomous community exclusively, of the 22 integrated vocational training centres there — three orders were to be published: one, in June; another, in August; and another, in September. Look, if you have to publish three orders to get such a small network of integrated centers that they provide vocational training, we're going wrong. And if we add to this that of all the centres offering dual vocational training this course — which are 14 in the autonomous community — it turns out that only 8 are integrated centres and the rest — i.e. 6 — are ordinary secondary schools -- currents and mills, i.e., without any kind of elitism, no kind of label, no special consideration — and therefore 43% of the dual vocational training offer is in ordinary centres, it is not to come here and draw on the network of integrated vocational training centres, because they are not responding by far to expectations. From vocational training you don't have to tell me, and not just you, but any other members of the House, because I've run a center for years that I've been providing vocational training and I know perfectly what's first-hand. I know that the innovation capacity of vocational training centres is often related to the innovation capacity of teachers. As in mathematics, the Spanish language, the Greek language and history; it is a matter of personal impulse many times; of course, it must count on the support of the Administration. And, therefore, our initiative goes in the constructive sense that we have been constantly repeating that we should modify that support that should already exist — let's not mention Newton's laws here, we're not going to drive so much a system that acquires infinite speed. But having said this, we are therefore going to assume that it is an initiative — I insist — of endogenous consumption; we are going to put that focus, that impulse, in all centres that provide vocational training, regardless of whether they are integrated or not; and, therefore, we are going to support its proposal not of law, but we would also thank you for accepting our amendment — I insist — made in an absolutely constructive way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u151	Good afternoon to all and to all. I left the caravel, but I can't resist saying that "on every corner, a friend and on every face, equality." The subject has to do with equality, the subject has to do with equality... it's a very deep subject. I've had a little bit of the same thing when I read in the middle of the leaflet so little argument for such an important subject for our country. In the future, I want to say that we want our youth to get into a decent, stable job, to a job that is not really precarious, unpaid, and not to take advantage of the situation of the great swindle that was the crisis to take advantage of our young people and girls. It's not enough to say: we promote innovation, and invest in R+D+i a 0.8%. Don't you think at least this is a paradox? In our community, people with secondary education are very little more than 55%, which is a data for reflection. To say that training and itineraries are like a staircase, I think it's a pretty good picture. The economy is a historical process, reality is framed by the past of this historical process. Obviously, as Mr. Álvarez says, we have to make an endogenous perspective. But we have nuances about this. I don't know as well as he does vocational training, but I do know that he went through many different stages. I know, for example, that in 2012 students, for example, of a higher cycle of vocational automotive training, went to companies, were well qualified, and 70% got jobs. Well, the success of vocational training lies in balance. Balance has to be sustained on legs, and those legs are teaching, it's companies and society too; and therefore within society, territory is an essential step. To talk about vocational training and to get through basic vocational training is not receipt because basic vocational training is a real nightmare and it's a first step from that ladder that I was talking about. Why? Because basic vocational training is a nightmare for teachers, a nightmare for centers. What is going to increase inequalities, limited the supply; from 301 PCPI to 147 basic training programs. The deviation of demotivated students, from what some people call remnants, that is, the students we have to put in a broken bag... but that was interesting to make up the numbers of absenteeism. And they actually got makeup and lowered the level of students leaving middle school. But this is quite false because vocational training shouldn't be a bag where it takes everything. And then, when he talks about the silent revolution, forgive me, but it doesn't make me any fun anymore, none. Because, first, we're on Revolution Day - peaceful - of the Caraveis. What silent revolution does it mean? I'd like you to explain. Is this Mr Aznar's silent revolution, privatization and debt increase? If that's the one, we agree, they're making a good silent revolution. But it's not a joke, it's a coat of hair and it's an insult to intelligence. The German production and service model has nothing to do with the Italian production and service model; this is a model that could work by transfer. Germany is the most competitive country in the world practically. Germany has 5% unemployment or less. What percentage of unemployment do we have? What does this have to do with your great outsourcing, speculation, funding policy? It's not the trade unions here, it's not the educational community, it's not the companies here; it's the finances that design the economy, according to their interests, to achieve benefits. And his great policy is based on privatization — there is data. To privatize vocational training are designated this year around 19,000 euros... Sorry, I say exactly the figure: 16,733,659 euros for FP concerts. Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u153	...the companies have no more than seven workers. What we want with our initiative, with our substitution amendment, is that we have real land prospects, that we have good territorial planning, that we do not take so much into account the private sector, without collective and territorial perspectives, that we are looking for suitable companies and that we are improving those that fail to succeed. I mean, that of the 22 you signaled...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u154	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u155	...in Ourense and Place there are three. If this is territorial balance, let him come, I don't know who and tell us. This isn't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u156	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u157	...balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u158	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor for the parliamentary group that is the author of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u159	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. The truth is, well, they told me they were a little surprised when they read the initiative, they didn't know very well what it was going to be. And the truth is, I believe what they say because they talked about anything less than what the initiative really put forward. So, look, we're not going to fall into the demonization that you want to do, from some groups, private. We will then be able to discuss educational concerts; we will leave the arguments for that moment. But, in principle, what I can say is, first of all, the education system has to be based on quality. And I suspect that the same quality can be imparted through a privately managed teaching that is a public teaching. I mean, I share that the quality of teaching can be exactly the same. But, well, it's model differences that, I say, we'll have a chance to discuss later. There is a question that they reiterated in all their speeches, and they were speaking precisely that they recognize that the level of employment integration of students who enter vocational training is an important level of employment. But they talk about precariousness or precarious contracts related to the inclusion of vocational training. Do you know what the most precarious job there is? What you don't have is the most precarious job there is... yes, yes, it's true. [[Murmurs.]] I know it can cause them some grace, but it's true. Perhaps you prefer an educational model -- because they criticized basic vocational training -- that drove people out of the education system and that they couldn't get a degree that would make them access to the labour market. Maybe that's your model of education policy and, in that case, they have to come to this House and tell the Galician society: no, we believe in a model that aims to expel the boys and girls from the educational system and not give them a degree that allows them to enter the labour market. It's a position. We do not share it, we share the opposite, what we are doing, a model that exactly allows -- and you recognize it -- to achieve early school dropout data, the best in the historical series. Well the truth is, I think that's something worth putting into value; regardless of whether you might agree or not, that's something worth putting into value. Look, they also said that if, in the end, this education policy of vocational training is a policy that is at the service of the company, to create workers in the service of the company, which will have precarious contracts... Home!, I think that dystopian novel speech is very good for drinking beer or something, but not for bringing to the House. We understand that here we have to be a little bit more serious, a little bit more rigorous and think that when we're talking here and when we're working here, we're somehow trying to influence and improve the lives of citizens, the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks. And so you have to have a little more measurement with the use of certain arguments. And on the other hand, I'm going to tell you the truth, about the amendments, that we are not going to accept the amendments because we understand that our proposal is a clear proposal and that you want to ask this House to do what you've been demanding for a long time, which is to support the momentum that needs vocational training in Galicia. And in that sense, if you don't agree, because you reject the proposal, of course they're right, but you know that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u160	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u161	...they're doing him a weak favor for Greek society. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. In Marea, at the initiative of Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members, on the extension by the Greek Government to nine months of the duration of the reinforcement staff contracts for the summer campaign of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u163	This motion for a non-law amendment by Mr. José Antonio Quiroga Díaz of Galicia Socialist Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u164	Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u165	President. Ladies and gentlemen, last week was The Irish, with 70 hectares; Carballeda de Avia, with 22 hectares; Vilarino de Conso, with 34 hectares; Lobios, with more than 100 hectares; yesterday Cervantes, for the second time in the year, and Sober, with more than 120 hectares each; Cualedro, with more than 20 hectares; today, two fires active in the Vilarino de Conso. Since 2012 the employment relationship of the Rural Council collects a number of squares with a temporality in a service provision of up to three months; sites ascribed to the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service. The above-mentioned, newly created squares have been collected in OJ No. 130, on Monday, July 9, 2012, where it is claimed that, according to the Forest Fire Prevention and Defence Act, it gives the competent forest-related body the design of the forest fire-fighting operation through the Fire Defense Plan, the Pladiga. The Galician Board argued in 2012 that the above-mentioned amendment of the Rural Media RPT aimed at dimensionalizing the organizational structure of the staff and adapting it to the needs of the Fire Prevention and Defense Service in the summer, which, permanently and declared as a high-risk period, provided support for the firefighting tasks. This amendment approved the creation of 436 squares, with services of up to three months for the staff of the Public Defence Service against Forest Fires, towards the reinforcement of the high risk of fires, as reported by the DG. On the other hand, in DOJ 213 of 3 November 2008, the V Single Collective Convention was published for the staff of the Galician Union, and within which the special working conditions of the staff of the Galician Union's Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service are established. As stated explicitly in Article 1 of this Agreement, "This collective agreement establishes and regulates the rules governing the legal and labour relations between the Galician Union and the staff which, subject to labour law, lends their services under their dependence and that of their autonomous bodies." Article 2 reads: "In this agreement, workers who, following the publication of this agreement, will be integrated into this agreement, depending on the Council of Galicia or its autonomous bodies". As noted above, the Fifth Collective Convention collects the special working conditions for staff of the Public Service for the Prevention and Defense of Forest Fires. In paragraph 2, in point 2.2, it states: "The work regime provided for in the Galician Union of Workers' Convention will be applicable to workers performing their work in the service itself, except in the aspects specifically developed in this agreement, which will have a dominant application." In its point 3.2, in paragraph 3, it says: "The period of work of the staff has been fixed and discontinued..." and it literally collects - "in order to contribute to the improvement of the job stability of the staff of the service, it is remembered with effect since 2008 for an uninterrupted period of nine months of fixed and discontinuous staff. The Rural Environment Council, as a result of improved results of prevention policy, undertakes to extend fixed and discontinuous staff contracts from the public service to nine months, modifying the current TPP. The tasks of this collective will be primarily prevention in the months in which there is less risk of forest fires and of monitoring and extinction in the high-risk season." Therefore, the regulations governing the legal-labour relations between the Galician Union and the staff providing their services under its dependence, including the staff of the Public Forest Fire Defense Service, only collects the 12- and 9-month period of work. In the 436 employment contracts which workers and workers sign with the Galician Union, with the Council of the Rural Environment, in the first clause binds the public service worker; in the third and fourth clauses, there is also a link between the worker and the fifth collective agreement; as well as in the additional clause 10th. In this regard, individual demands were brought before the courts of First Instance and the Social Court, by looking at law fraud and by violating what was collected in the Fifth Collective Convention, where no three-month employment contract was collected, as we had previously reported. It would therefore be necessary to extend the recruitment periods of workers and workers who serve during the months of July, August and September, and who rise to the number of 436 people, to a device that does not count enough means to meet these new challenges. We just saw it with the fires mentioned above, and in the view it's after observing what's happening these days. It's no more nuance than it's a clumsy collective, spread out by the geography of the country, and it's already strategically located today as territorial coverage refers to and with the added value of a broad knowledge of the territory, then, after more than twenty-five years worked. In view of the argument of the lack of funds to expand the recruitment, we can demonstrate how the Galician Union is trying to expand, to date, the recruitment and the number of heli-transport brigades, increasing the time only to private heli-transport brigades, to offer prevention, while sending the staff of the fixed public service and discontinuing to unemployment. With this, we're not suggesting that the air media is not necessary, it's obvious that their employment in an appropriate way is fundamental, but while the heli-transported brigades themselves from the public device if they manage to withdraw the helicopter one month before the end of the brigade contract, the contractors from Inaer and the workers from Natutechnia have increased the duration of the time worked, including as a new task prevention, something that was not previously collected. And in this collective agreement, prevention was set as a medium-term objective for public service personnel, so by progressively increasing prevention activities, the length of stay and working conditions of the Public Defence Service against Forest Fires would be improved. Today, from En Marea, we have seen a reduction in the number of fire prevention and extinctions in 2017, and there has been a 100% reduction in the purchase of forest fire vehicles. Right now there is a departure in 2017 of zero euros, less €130,000 for renewal, PPE equipment for forest firefighters and zero euros for the acquisition of all-earth vehicles. I don't know if you know the state of the whole world of agents and forest and environmental agents, with more than 400,000 kilometres of roads and clues, always in poor condition, which causes most of them not to pass their corresponding ITVs. You are, gentlemen of the People's Party, playing many times with the life of the heroines and heroes who are leaving their lives in our mountains to save what you are unable to do. As for the PPE, it's not nice to see how we're being cut into firewood, forest firearms and forest firearms. The forest fire prevention and defence device has been reduced this year to EUR 4,800,000, while the air media has increased to EUR 10 million now. Less prevention and more extinction, that's the policy they've been applying since the Conseilerie du Medio Rural in recent years, and if it's in the form of Inaer's helicopters, it's better than better. In the best years of the behavior of fire, the composition of the forest fire prevention and extinction device was mostly formed by the Public Defence Service against Forest Fires, which accounted for 84% of the total. With the introduction of the new People's Party model, after the year 2009, the specific weight of the Public Defence Service against Forest Fires has diminished to the 38% we have today. So I think we've already brought up technical arguments. And we make a clear proposal to exchange this model by another based on a single device that consists only of a Public Defense and Prevention Service against Galician Forest Fires, where the specific weight of the motorcycle-bridging binomy is recovered from the excessive use of airborne devices, which are necessary but not so effective. From an economic point of view, direct recruitment of personnel by the public forest fire prevention and defence device is more economical than by any of the other companies that have been involved in the extinction tasks in the last years, such as UME, Operation Centinela, or Natutechnia itself. The precariousness of work that workers and workers are subjected to with the times and modalities that exist at this time increases with the simple passage of time. It is scandalous that the public administration itself fosters these slave and poor contracts, not guaranteeing the basics in order to maintain living conditions worthy of our workers. After four years since the last change in the RPT of the Rural Council, staff receive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u166	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u167	... —it has ended — a wage less than 75% of the minimum interprofessional wage, since the German Autonomic Administration should not allow, beyond the extremely exceptional situations, if we consider that this is not what we are now dealing with. We believe that the conditions that give rise to this modification of the RPT have changed and it doesn't make sense to keep these precarious contracts any longer and our people at home while the mountain continues to burn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u169	For all the above — I am going directly to the GNP — the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea makes the following non-legislative proposal for its full debate: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to amend the current employment relationship of the Conseilería do Medio Rural, in the sense that the duration of the reinforcement staff contracts for the summer campaign of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service increases over the current three months, being equated with workers and workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u170	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u171	...—I'm just reading...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u172	Yeah, with a minute and I'll pick it up. You have another shift later, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u173	...manual labor has done and discontinued, broadening his contractual relationship to a total...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u174	Thank you very much, then you have another shift. The Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor Mr Quiroga Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u175	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rodríguez Estévez, I think we're going to have to repeat more on this subject and have more morals than the Alcoyano, because I don't know if it will come out of this subject, despite the importance, of the grip and transcendence that would have a measure of this caliber. Go ahead and we'll support the initiative. And then, in the amendment, we're willing to compromise so that nothing is wrong and things are quite clear. And we're basically supporting it for two reasons or two reasons: one of a kind of work and the other of an environmental nature. The labors, well, because it did-decontinuum for three months is a contractual condition which, in all light, does not bring stability of any kind or benefit to anyone, and rather seems to be a contractual condition of the underworld, of another past era, which does not correspond to this twenty-first century or with a long trajectory of struggle for job improvements. If that condition of precarious work is provided by the Administration, regardless of the service justifications it puts on the table, this does not seem to be the best example of moving it to society. If the three-month decontinuum figure is extended to other groups under the Administration, as is the case, then the exception goes to the category, and we consider that it is not from receipt that the Administration itself can potentiate this model of contractual relationships. Because what message is being moved to the street, if you are moving to other initiatives? Well, a light, a path, a street that we understand is not exactly what to follow or the best to follow. In addition to the economic-laboral aspect, there is another aspect related to this one which has a lot of transcendence, such as the factor of training at work, the factor of experience, which we understand cannot be thrown into waste. Today you bring this proposal here to the Chamber as a clear exponent of the labour situations that must be — we understand — overcome and, in any case, we understand that the Administration should not prolong or extend, but that, as you know and all know, this is not the only collective subject to these draconian conditions, to these conditions more of its own centuries, but there are other collectives who are, or other better known collectives, who are in a very similar situation. That's why our amendment, because there's no greater triumph for the system than dividing the forces, individualizing them, and finally making leirs, because so no effort is added and no reach or are harder to conquer the targets. And in that sense goes our amendment, which we'll then talk about it to make it concrete and to gain as much support as possible. The second factor is the environment, which you have already referred to as the beginning of your intervention on the subject of fires. It's almost two thousand acres on which we go from year to year, surprisingly, unusually, but which at best begins to take letter of nature the extension or the extension, unfortunately, dramatically, of the storm of fires. The 436 people who make up this group are, as has already been said, part of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service. And being the fires a country problem, an environmental problem, a social problem, a cultural problem and even a budget problem, you can either either make an effort and look for a fit that, on the one hand, stabilizes these workers' collectives and, on the other hand, helps in the fight against this big problem, that crack we have in this country that is the fire, in addition to being a luxury of experience and a disregard to leave aside the human factor that these collectives represent, these workers who have been in their jobs for so many years, even if it is in a way discontinuous. If, moreover, we note that this is the legislation of rural areas, with the unanimous agreement to increase prevention as the best way to fight fire — and I think that everyone agrees — if we consider that the cleaning and monitoring of the mountain are fundamental, that the forestry treatments are basic, then we have to bet to protect the professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u176	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u177	...related precisely to extinction and prevention, not to cut them off, not to have them in a situation of precarious work — I repeat — more than another century or other latitudes — I don't care. Finishing up. It is important to start by considering, in addition, that we are in a new cycle, in a likely new climate cycle, which will lead — or is already taking — to the firestorm, the high heat of the fires every time is prolonged, if it is expanding, as we were able to check this year since Christmas. This new situation will also have to give new answers. And the new answers don't have to go looking for the antipods, we have them next door, we have them inside the administration, and they're also a collective, or they're highly qualified or prepared collectives. So it would be normal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u179	...if you want to end this problem, access this initiative. As it has already been shown, it has legal fit, it has a reasonable cost and, therefore, the request seems fair and necessary and we will support it and then we will talk about that little nuance as to the amendment we propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u180	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u181	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Law 17/2015 of the Civil Protection System, in Article 17, requires that forest firefighting services be considered as public intervention services and assistance in civil protection emergencies. As competition units collect, it is not a matter of changing the functions of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service; they are simply expanded to act as first interveners and carry out support work, in addition to continuing the work already carried out today on forest fire prevention and extinction. Beyond the law, the Administration has no interest in using forest firefighters on the emergency device, when it would be a valuable tool in any other context. To show, the time of about a month ago, where they were not called for any kind of continence, being the devices of civil protection overflowed. There was clearly negligence, not using a tool that was there, that they had there. It would be interesting to know what is the reason why the forest fire crew is not used for these tasks that the new State Civil Protection Act orders it and there are already other territories where they develop them. As for prevention, the only management plan that exists is Pladiga, a plan that is presented for the summer, usually between May and June, and which focuses on the extinction plan. Prevention itself is not crafted at the Greek level; each improvised district. It is the duty of an administration to safeguard and look for the good of its citizens; it must conform to reality in order to properly fulfil that function. Climate change, which has already been mentioned here, is there, whether it's seasonal or not; it's there. The Pladiga this year is late. Even though the press didn't say anything, the fires were with us all this long period of drought. Finally, from the point of view of job insecurity, the situation of these 436 workers was uncontinuous. We have no limits on the search for words that disguise cruel realities, because the situation of these workers, along with Seaga's, that we should include in the same package of demands, is cruel and inhuman: to wait all year for three months of work. In addition, since last year, apart from not extending the contract time, the workers of this service have been extended to private heli-transport brigades, where they are already hired during the prevention period. We therefore support the initiative of the En Marea Group and would seem fair to us to include the PSdEG amendment, which clearly refers to Seaga workers, who are in the same marginality and we believe that they should go in the same package of measures. I know that this is stimulated by "dividing and you'll win," as my fellow PSdeG has already mentioned, to maneuver with the collectives. But it is also true that the Fire Service is increasingly in need of a single body of forest firefighters trained, trained and prepared for all kinds of intervention and emergency civil protection assistance. Within the new tasks of the law for forest firefighters, the new competition units appear, among them to attend as first intervener in accidents or emergency situations in rural areas, as well as to carry out support work in continence in the natural and rural environment. The conditions that led to the modification of the RPT have changed and it doesn't make sense to keep these contracts with such reduced timeliness any longer. By, one, being out of agreement, remaining in a situation of continuing irregularity of work. Two, for being overwhelmed by more than 50 judicial judgments in the first instance. Three, for being in the civil protection device with the new competition units and new responsibilities. Four, by the appearance of a new kind of fire that demands more personal and more prepared. Five, because these events are total time coverage every day of the year and not a specific period. Six, for and for a better use of a public resource and eminently rural as is that of forest firefighters, already equipped with means. Seven, because it is a matter of political will, because it is economically cheaper than the current waste in air media — UME, private company brigades, etc., etc. — And eight, because an administration cannot subject to conditions of precarious work and extend them over time, as it does today with this collective of 436 more Seaga workers. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know In Marea or the PSdeG, we are willing to bring, how many times it is necessary, until they learn or yield, or until they're tired of hearing us, but this is unfair of law, of form, of ethics and of everything. They have to give him a solution once and for all — with forgiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u182	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balseiros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that this proposal has already been discussed in the middle of the 8th of February of this year, and today, like that, we are going to try to put a little tenderness and rigour in the corresponding debate. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, there are currently 436 jobs created by the Galician Board in 2012 to meet the needs of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service during the summer campaign. And this creation comes from a situation well known to all, but which, once again, we are forced to detail here. Until 2011, and for the reinforcement of this service, the Galician Union was hiring at the beginning of each possible summer worktime campaign, under the specific mode of work or service — by the way, opposition lords, exactly as you did in the four years in which you ruled the Bipartite in Galicia. These contracts were of a potential nature and did not guarantee workers their employment year after year. The workers hired by work or service filed judicial complaints that arrived at the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia, which recognized that the contractual modality suitable for successive summer campaigns was de facto discontinuous, and that was understood to be a real, structural and cyclical necessity. At the moment that the High Court of Justice recognized the workers' claims, the Galician Union proceeded to carry out the actions aimed at bringing workers' claims to an end. For this reason, in 2012 the Galician Union has made a fixed and structural strengthening of the forest fire prevention and defence service device during the summer season, and for what it did, first, the creation of 436 jobs for fixed-term benefit for three months in summer campaigns, and secondly, the coverage of these 436 jobs for temporary workers under the mode of inter-internity. With this measure, ladies and gentlemen, 436 workers gained job stability and from 2012 they were assured to work each campaign and also for a certain period of three specific months: July, August and September. So the staff won, in addition to the certainty of their contracts year after year, the determination of a duration of their contracts, which became always three months. And you continue to maintain the impossibility of these workers to make replacements of non-vacated squares. Well, created on the 436 squares, a call is made that allows you to subscribe to 436 internal labor contracts of uncontinuous fixeds. This staff, bound by an interim employment contract as it did, could not be called to occupy more long-term pure vacant squares; the only way it had to maintain that expectation was to give up its contract, which involved a penalty to access the lists for a year. Aware of this prejudice, the Galician Union has amended Decree 37/2001, which regulates the recruitment lists, and therefore, since September 2016, workers in the summer campaign may choose to fill vacancies or not vacant posts without penalty. For all of the above, we cannot agree with your non-law proposal so that workers and three-month-old workers can choose to fill vacancies and not vacancies, because today this is already possible: giving up their contract, without penalty, they can occupy both the vacant squares as well as those that you call not vacancies, and which are temporarily unemployed, for having a right holder reserved for their job. Finally, to clarify that the amendment of the listing decree falls within the jurisdiction of the Directorate-General for Civil Service rather than the Rural Environment Council, without prejudice to the fact that this council would support any measures that workers benefit from this service and be in favour of the provision of the prevention and extinction of fires. Any amendment to the listing decree is negotiated by the Directorate-General for Public Service with trade union organizations, as happened with the amendment adopted in September 2016. But, ladies and gentlemen, voting against this initiative does not mean that we stop pushing the legitimate demands of these workers; on the contrary, as it is believed in the actions that have already been carried out, previously reported, and as we did at the meeting that we held representatives of the People's Group with them on 17 March and how we will be meeting with them in the future, listening to their problems, their concerns and their aspirations. But we will do so honestly, seriously, rigorously and responsibly. Only in this way will it be possible to move forward towards the fulfilment of the demands of these 436 workers, to whom we want to express our respect and gratitude for their work in the exercise of their responsibilities as professionals in the fight against fires and to make ourselves fully available so that, in a truthful and legal way, we can manage. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u184	Thank you, Mr. Basketballs. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u185	Mr. Balsairos, I believe that if you vote against this non-law proposition today, you are depriving 436 workers and workers of decent working conditions, who are here with us today, accompanying us, in the Public Service for Defence against Forest Fires, who work three months a year, and that's a given and it's there. I don't know how you come up with arguments to override the precarious situation in which our workers and our workers find themselves. Today, the surface of fires, the surface of fires, from 1 January to today, which has been burned on 2,384 hectares, all of this without counting the fires under 20 hectares, because they don't appear on the Middle Rural Page, so we can be talking about more than three thousand hectares, and from the first day of the year to this day more than six hundred fires. Mr. Feijóo's rural environment policy, which he so presumed here at the beginning of the campaign, is reduced in this painting that you have given us in the budgets. Fire prevention, 171,000 less; fire information process equipment, 200,000 less; forest treatment and forest mass improvement, 338,000 less; forest infrastructure, 118.000 less; restoration for forest mass recovery, 1 million less; studies and work-training programmes in the mountains, 126.000 less. These are your policies you have this year for the rural environment? I don't know. Mr. Feix..., Feijóo—nearly escaped from Mr. Beiras, I apologize—very much assumed here, at the beginning of the legislation: this was the campaign, the legislate of the rural environment. This isn't the legislation of the rural environment, it's all a farce and a pantomime. And in view, there's the privatizing urge that you have, the people of the People's Party, as far as forest fires are concerned. The business of fire for the People's Party exists and right now is experiencing happy moments, because our mountain continues to burn and continues to burn and you continue to privatize the service. The private companies that are distributing the cake are today more fortunate than ever. Last April 13th, in the middle of Holy Week, decreed the high risk of the forest fires in Galicia. Although the Union has its own forest fire defense service, the device is not operational in the absence of 100 percent of those 436 people, who are at home. Since last April 13 we have seen an unstoppable escalation of burned hectares in Galicia. Just between 18 and yesterday, more than 1,500 hectares were burned. Apart from ecological and environmental loss, let's remember: material damage, as happened recently with the calcination of a motorcycle in the fire of Mandía, in the county of Ferrol. Do you have suitable vehicles and stations the 498 firefighters and firefighters of the comarcas parks, which Mr. Rueda includes within the Public Service against Forest Fires? Why is it not necessary to incorporate 73 fixed watches stopped in September? They can detect fires when these are incipient, ensuring a response time much faster. Where's the advisor's promise he gave to the African workers and workers to meet with them after the election? And Galicia is burning today at a rate of 100 hectares a day. There is no need for the district focal point to be open twenty-four hours a day; it's not happening right now. In short, wouldn't it be much more logical and more operational than the firefighting device was once public and you stopped atomizing it? Wouldn't it be much more logical and more operational than in the firefighting device at Junta incorporated all the specialized personnel of the Public Defence and Forest Fire Prevention Service at high risk? We're sick and tired of seeing our country burn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u187	Another forest policy from En Marea we think it's possible and you're an accomplice to the disastrous consequences that occur in forest fires, because they don't want to fix it. The president of the board no longer comes with his shoes and with his hose shut off, while our workers and our workers are still at home. They feel guilty when they see our mountains all dressed in black. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u188	About the amendment of the PSOE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u189	With regard to the amendment, we accept the amendment of the Socialist Party and the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u190	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and two other Members, on the adoption by the Government of a plan to combat fraud in autonomic public procurement
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u191	This motion for a non-law has been amended by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u192	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u193	Yes, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, too, the assistants in the rostrum. On February 15 this year there was an answer from the Galician Council, in addition to a question from the People's Parliamentary Group itself, regarding the plan to improve public procurement, the state of execution of the objectives of this plan, which was a plan drawn up for the biennium 2014-2016. In this response, the Vice-President and Chairlorship, which was practically developed and would end up in 2017. This plan — very quickly — referred as an objective of resource optimization, maximizing competition, ensuring the possibility of electronic processing, operating as an active element for stimulating pemes or introducing transparency mechanisms and good practice. Axis 5 of this plan, precisely with regard to transparency and good practice mechanisms, does not, however, take up at that time, any concrete action which specifically referred to the fight against fraud and corruption in tenders. In the field of public procurement, it is therefore necessary to make further progress in the adoption of technical and legal measures than, beyond the necessary transparency and regulation of processes and criteria, to fight and avoid fraud systems in public procurement. Data: The National Markets and Competition Commission itself estimates that the overcost caused by bad anti-competitive practices amounts to EUR 40 billion per year, 4,5 % of GDP, which exceeds even, as we have seen on occasion, the deficit forecast that Spain had committed to Brussels in 2015, which was 4,2 %. This data would mean nothing more and nothing less than Spain could have resolved its budgetary imbalances, which come by bleeding public accounts and that such deterioration has caused precisely in public welfare services, and not to mention the estimate of about EUR 100 billion in tax fraud. The National Markets and Competition Commission considers that public tenders account for 15% of GDP; more data than on another occasion we will also have occasion to point out. The World Economic Forum itself points out that corruption accounts for 5% of global GDP, an increase in business costs by 10%. The World Bank itself, too, estimates the cost of public sector bribes, both in rich and poor countries, at a volume of $1 billion a year. And the European Commission, by giving more data, estimates at EUR 120,000 million that were lost in the 27 Member States due to corruption, i.e. the amount equivalent to the total budget of the Union. As I am therefore an absolute priority in the fight against manipulations in public tenders — and I am not going to deepen at this moment precisely in the news that is happening, I no longer say these years or these months, or even these weeks, even these days, but minute by minute by many of the directors, and I have to say so because it is so, of the People's Party — as I said, in the light of this evidence that it is flooding, it strikes the judges and the media, the National Markets Commission itself and the Competition has just approved a guide against fraud in public tenders, offering the adjudicator powers a whole series of indications that can prove that we are in the face of possible cases of manipulation in tenders. That is, to analyze whether there is a small number of tenders, if we are faced with incoherent offers of the same tenderer, if we have suspicious similarities in the tenders submitted, suspicions of boycott, non-competitive offers, patterns of suspicious behaviour between bidder companies, unjustified subcontracting between tenderers, offers presented by the same physical persons or ETU among bidders without apparent justification, are a whole decade of measures that can help to show that we are faced with hints of corruption and fraud in the public tender. And above all this bleak picture of data, of course, as on many occasions we have many of the parliamentarians already pointed out in this House, both in full and in commission, the second concern of citizenship is precisely corruption. But this concern about corruption, with the latest CIS barometer, is divided into 7.5 points more than the previous barometer, placing — as I said — in that second concern for 73% of the respondents. I couldn't tell which position, or I wouldn't be able to tell if the mercury from the CIS barometer would break completely if I had just done a new inquiry into citizenship today. [[Applause]] It cannot be that the second concern, after unemployment, is corruption, when the fourth concern is — and I will say it in the first person — the political class and it turns out that health can be the fifth problem and education and education the seventh problem. Today the National Institute of Statistics tells us that 23% of the population in Spain is at risk of poverty, and we, with these numbers and with these corruption actions. But the documents that the self-government itself can provide to try to fight in a decisive way against corruption practices are multiple and varied. The new mechanisms, the new integrity pacts that are being put in various public administrations and that allow, precisely, an external agent to be monitoring the adjudication work between the adjudicator power and the bidders, are instruments of high relevance which I believe should, without delay, incorporate into the bidding practice of the autonomous public sector; in fact, the European Union itself is promoting the use of these mechanisms. And in this sense, another document in which I believe that one can work perfectly to incorporate without delay would be the guidelines that the European Commission itself, already in June 2014, gave to the Member States and managing authorities to manage the European Structural Investment Funds. A whole mechanism is established, a whole system of self-assessment and risk assessment of fraud to try to identify indications that may cause the European Anti-Fraud Office itself to act. The Commission recommends that management authorities adopt a proactive, structured and specific approach — and hence the nature of our non-law proposal — to manage the risks of these funds. What we've seen to support is that all these fraud risk assessment methodologies can be incorporated into the whole and systematic public tenders. All the programme authorities say that the European Commission must commit itself to zero tolerance in fraud, beginning with the adoption of a proper attitude from the most responsible posts, which is not exactly the situation that is being presented to us with many of the actions we are observing. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, gentlemen of the People's Group, I think corruption never goes out with the polls. This was a unfortunate statement that the current Minister of Justice offered public opinion at the end of last year. He said political responsibility for corruption goes out with the polls. I believe that this is the opposite way, precisely, of progressing in terms not only of transparency, but, basically, of democratic quality. I do not want to finish this intervention, especially in the context of news that we are in and without wanting to go into personalizing in any way, without failing to claim an old letter from Professor Solé Tura and Professor Eliseo Aja, who already in 1977 — forty years ago — gave a series of lessons on constitutionalism, analyzing the constitutional period between 1808 and 1936, and who said to us: "The vast majority of our contemporary history has developed under clearly conservative constitutional texts or under the sign of the denial of constitutionalism. Frankism — it was said in 1977 — does not appear as an innovative rupture of the political tradition of the Spanish oligarchy, but as a development of it towards its last consequences. That is why — teachers Solé Tura and Aja told us — the current constituent period will not lead to democratic stability unless it involves a profound change in the relationships of the social forces." It seems to have been yesterday the meaning of these statements, and they are really up-to-date. That is why we in this House put forward this proposal, so that Parliament, this House, urges the Government of Greece to adopt an anti-fraud plan in a specific way in the public procurement of the autonomic public sector. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u194	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today, the Socialist Group is presenting an initiative which, as Mr Díaz has just explained, seeks to adopt an anti-fraud plan in public procurement in the field of the autonomic public sector. First of all, Mr Díaz, we have to deny the largest, which is said in the explanatory part of the non-law proposal, because it is not true that nothing has been done in the fight against fraud in tenders in recent years. The fact that there is no concrete plan doesn't mean that there are no concrete measures in this direction. Examples such as Article 23 of the Law on Rationalization, which speaks of transparent procurement and which promotes competition — since you have just spoken here — are a precept that takes up two concrete measures aimed at combating fraud in tenders, which cover the two sides of the problem: on the one hand, the internal functioning of the administration and, on the other hand, the agreements between companies. These measures are, on the one hand, not to invite related companies in the negotiated proceedings, to avoid distorting the procedure, and the complaint to the Galician Competition Council if such practices are to be found. While it seems that Article 23 is nothing, it may seem to you that it is nothing — you voted against that law — it is in fact quite enough, because, on the one hand, it obliges the Board to diversify in its invitations to undertakings for minors and traders, which implies an objective measure to ensure that such tenders are not limited by the Administration to competition fraudulently, and, on the other hand, because it compels the Administration to denounce the possible agreements between undertakings that it can detect in the tenders. So we cover both sides of the same problem: that of the business agreements and that of the Administration, with the aim of protecting competition and avoiding its distortion. And the same Council also conducted training sessions for staff of the Board and sent questionnaires and information to the public staff, in order to make known the possibilities for action in the event of agreements between companies prohibited by competition law. So that's also fundamental, that public personnel are trained to apply the regulations. And we can also talk about the ethical code, where the first of the ethical code procurement measures is the publication of the declarations on the contract platform to ensure the equality of all bidders and avoid the distortion of competition. So I think there are measures. You can't say you haven't done anything. And also the training of public administration staff. Both Junta, for example, is organized by the Business Council in February 2017, as well as the EGAP, which has also periodically organized different days in the prevention of corruption, in particular by prosecutors, in the course that was organized with the Board of Auditors, as you well know, that although they did not refer exclusively to the prevention of corruption in public procurement, they did include this matter in their contents. And also in the field of health, they've been organized for days. So there's action. What can we talk about a new plan? Well, yes, there are reasons that justify this new plan, it's reasonable, because the plan ends now in 2017. On the one hand, the entry into force of laws 39/2015 and 40/2015, which affect from the point of view of the electronic procurement administration. Also, the direct effectiveness of public procurement directives after the date on which they are transposed, Directives 23 and 24 of 2014. The forthcoming adoption of the new Public Sector Contracts Act, as well as the various documents which have been approved and prepared by the European Commission, the State Anti-Fraud Office, by Competition, on the prevention of corruption, such as the Guide to Conflict of Interest in Public Procurement Procedures, in the framework of structural actions. And those to be drawn up, the new functions in the prevention of corruption of the Galician Council of Auditors, and the recent adoption of its regulation. Mr. Díaz, I'm not going to enter "and you more." You have just made a parallel here between the increase in poverty and corruption, and considering where you've been stopping the money from the formation of unemployed people in Andalusia, taking into account the percentage of unemployment in that autonomous community, which is the autonomous community with a higher percentage of unemployment in Spain, 28%, 900,000 unemployed, because you could also extend that reflection that you have just made of poverty and corruption with unemployment and corruption. [[Murmurs.]] We are also overwhelmed by cases of corruption, come from former presidents of the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, come from former presidents of the Autonomous Community of Madrid, and therefore we present an amendment to its proposal that proposes to go beyond what the Socialist Group is asking. [[Applause]] We want a new plan of measures for public procurement in the autonomic public sector. But we believe that it must also contain measures which are in progress and which have proved to be effective, taking into account the new legislation, both state and Community, as well as the European Commission's position on competition and the prevention of corruption and which includes measures to update the training of public employees in this field. We would be facing a new plan to improve the prevention of corruption in the public procurement of the autonomic public sector for the years 2017-2020, and I hope that we can reach a unanimous agreement on this matter, because I am aware that this concerns all the groups that we are part of this House. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u197	Good afternoon. A few years have passed since Nicolas Sarkozy uttered that famous phrase: "Capitalism must be refounded on ethical grounds." It's rained a bit since that, and what we've been attending was a legitimation operation, whitening -- we can say -- of the system itself, a lampedusian operation. It was apparently all about changing everything to keep it all the same. Therefore, the creation of an appearance to conceal, to camouflage unfair policies, replacing reality with words. Of course, then the words, replacing reality, created the appearance that we were really in front of transparency, in front of good government, in front of governance, in front of participation. And the mantra of transparency, through laws, through norms, through decrees, through bodies, through councils, for it seems to invade everything, and it seems that simply by creating more organisms and more standards that speak of transparency because we already have a more quality democracy. We, of course, did not share this system analysis. Because, in addition, it turns out that the supposedly independent organisms are proliferating around to monitor transparency, and we already know what's behind them. For example, a very well-known one, which is International Transparency, which is a genuine deception, a fraud, because it has as its source of funding big lobbyies, big capitalist companies, and also the same Government of the United States. So, look at the independent bodies, too, look at the reports of the World Bank or the World Economic Forum and even the National Commission on Market and Competition, which inspires us also, at least, some mistrust, as inspired by the International Transparency itself, which also actually has a manual for the prevention of corruption in public contracts — it must have been the manual they used in the Isabel II Canal, this one of International Transparency. Well, the National Markets Commission and Competition really does not inspire us any trust, because it is precisely the one that allowed what happened in the banking field, what happens in the field of energy monopolies, and also in the bottom is that it is sharing these impositions of European and state law, which are actually leading to a monopoly in public procurement, because it is that every time, with supposed transparency, with a supposed publicity, with a supposed equal access throughout the world, in the end the big contracts always end up in a few hands, which are curiously the hands of the companies that also later finance the back door. So we do think that we need to go to a profound reform of public procurement. You have to break up with this model from the very beginning, and you have to do it in the light of a new legal framework that is made into a country key, and also a social key, although of course, it has many limitations in a capitalist model like the current one. For it is not bad for us that an anti-fraud plan is certainly proposed in public procurement, but we are also aware of the limitation, within the current legal framework, that this model has. I don't take the merit of insisting on you. They also bring an inquiry here on the issue of transparency and good government. They are persistent, they are insistent in the Socialist Group. We have, I say, a certain unbelief, a certain distrust, especially that which is falling, because it turns out that they proliferate the laws, the rules, the counsels of transparency and good government and we see that it is falling down to that which is falling. And even today we also – no doubt at all, the truth is that we are no longer a place for unbelief – to the last news that implies the same minister of Justice, Mr. Catalá, who also sent him a text – as the famous Mariano's "Luis, be strong" –, like no!, Ignacio González: "Ignacio, I wish they would soon end the mess". For the reality is that there is more and more confusion in the People's Party, there is more and more fraud in the system, there is less transparency and less ethics, because ethics is fundamentally incompatible with capitalism, and, if there were any doubts, Mr Feijóo has already made it clear to us with his use of biblical myth. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u198	Thank you, Mr Bará. I have here noted Mr. Sánchez now to intervene. Who's in charge? Well, they didn't report it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Are you going to talk? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then, you have the floor. You have a right, but I haven't been told that incidence. You'd have to do it, I understand. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have the floor, Mrs. Santos, but you have to report it, of course!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u199	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to start by reading them a poem within the framework of Book Day, which has just been called Economy, and says, "Politics, preventing a war from going out cheaper than paying it." I consider it to be a very noble poem, of course, by its literal meaning, above all, in view of the belligerent times in which we are immersed, with the dangerous rise of populism in governments such as that of the United States or that of the neighbouring France. Yes, populism, because, even if they were to put that label on us, historically — and unfortunately found — populism was much more pessimistic with the extreme right than with the left, with those authoritarian parties or leaders and xenophobics like Trump or Le Pen. But really, what I'm most interested in today's verses is to point out how to have effective measures against corruption, whether through this initiative or through a specific anti-corruption prosecution for Galicia; a proposal that we have already discussed here, the initiative of our group, and that we will bring back to the Plenary, as it would save us all a lot of money after the theft and the police to the public that has been unleashed in recent years with a major protagonist, the People's Party. And also because you'll have to spend in administration of justice and penitentiary, because at this pace in the People's Party you won't be corrupt or the last to close the door. Money, on the other hand, which served to fill their accounts, accounts A and accounts B in Genoa; and some also accounts of their most prominent managers and friends in places like Switzerland and Andorra, while the country collapsed and precariously affected the crisis and the current aftermath of this crisis. Mr Rueda said today in press about the scandal of Ferroatlantics — Mr Villar Mir and the accused son-in-law — that En Marea was being opportunistic and sinning of a lack of rigour. But it's logical that any minimally intelligent person thinks Ferroatlantic can be influencing the PP for his own business benefit — as our spokesman Luis Villares said yesterday — because it seems that there is a direct relationship between the deal of favour to this company and the financing of the PP. But we are equally misunderstandings and the contributions that have been made to the People's Party by the OHL, by Villar Mir, for EUR 530,000, or Sacyr, for EUR 480,000, are fruit of chance and not of small incentives to secure a succulent public contract. But, of course, the PP focuses its utmost concern as a government of serious and responsible management on the social networks of the opposition rather than on its initiatives, on the fight against corruption or on social issues of silence. And at the same time that you were ensembled in such important matters for Galicia, your great leader, Mr. Feijóo, presented books in Madrid saying that the crisis had come very well to Spain and congratulate Cristina Cifuentes for ruling without a majority—he would not know how to do so, he said clearly—and with the excitement of the moment—as if he was trying to place Mr. Rajoy's dolphin—he was rescued by the "grey areas of party financing" that brought him under the cover of these evil El Mundo newspaper. And from there, above being the accused party, the festival begins: the judgment of the girl, Urdangarín, Blessa, the president of Murcia, Rodrigo Rato, Ignacio González, Zaplana, the government delegate in Madrid, Anti-Corruption, who complains against the dispatch of Mr. Montoro, the call to declare Rajoy and Cifuentes by the Gürtel and the Punica..., a tsunami that is taking forward the Community of Madrid, Genoa and Moncloa. There seems to be a strange war in their ranks, or we're also misconsidered. As it is one without stopping, we also learned this morning that the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office said unknown but did not deny the chivazzos that Ignacio González has been receiving about the investigation and the message of courage of the Minister of Justice in 2016. And, at the same time, a Twit of Spanish Television Informatives yesterday said textually: "The judge points out that Ignacio González placed on Spanish Television a journalist to defend his image. We have asked for explanations." The government of Aznar, with all its former ministers charged or in boards of administration, but that's what they have plots, which weave with time; and these muds, these muds. Remember a swan full of razors crunching through the mud. Now they want to unwind: isolated, undesirable cases, rotten apples, Mrs. Aguirre resigns for the third time after she — according to her — uncovering the Gürtel... just like Mrs. Prado surprises us any day saying that she broke off Pokémon. You want to represent a different PP, but it's not only that they are the same, but that many of us suspect that they are so involved or more than their heads in Madrid, but time will tell. Meanwhile, keep watching and talking about Venezuela. For us they have the same modus operandi. More examples: "Indra investigated for irregularly financing the People's Party with 700,000 euros". By chance, he gets contracts for 30 million euros later in the past year. "Rogelio Martínez, Mr Feijóo's right hand in Ourense, will finally be judged for misappropriation of European funds." Around the PP we find ourselves with another epicenter, with the branching of the plot, sadly; the plot of corruption with designation of Greek origin: Pablo Crespo, Louzán, Baltar, Count Roa, Pokémon, Pikachu, Orchestra, Naseiro, Martial Dorado... I suppose they will sound. For all this, we are going to support this PSdeG initiative. It is urgent that justice act, of course, and that appropriate measures be put in place to prevent fraud and theft, because corruption destroys democracy. So I want to finish, as I began, with a couple of verses that I offer as advice and that I offer them from the heart, because, although they think the opposite and they spite my vehemence and passion, mine is not the ring or boxing; I don't conceive the political debate, and much less the institutional one, I prefer literature and the caravans. That's why he says: "Remember that Ovnis, like certain friendships, do not come to ours, but to theirs."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Thank you very much. I have Portuguese sources. It looks very good on me. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I'm probably from the House, which is best for this caravel. Thank you. [[Applause]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u201	Thank you, President. Mrs. Prado, I believe that never, precisely these days, the People's Party, anywhere in Spain, but the People's Party also in Galicia, should have any kind of killing to do to the absolute necessity of carrying out a serious plan against corruption, in matters of recruitment and in matters of public procurement. [[Applause]] It is true that measures have been taken in the period 2014-2016, but in the area of administrative management, in the management of public procurement. And one thing is standards, actions to improve behavior and management, and another question is, precisely, to deepen behaviors that they're looking for is to overthrow the legal channels of turning to public procurement. Because, as I said before, what we are witnessing is not corruption, not even systematic, but a perfect circle of corruption of this country's oligarchic system, which is very different from the system of corruption of simple organized crime. We are not going to deepen on that issue, but I believe that at this moment it is even a frivolity to try to amend — as they are doing — this non-law proposal, which only calls for an anti-corruption plan in the field of public procurement. Nothing more and nothing more, Mrs. Prado. Because they are not exactly examples of behaviors that favor competition, for example, what is happening, as you well know, with the bidding of cleaning services. It turns out that the Galician board bids cleaning services amounting to 45 million euros without batch distribution, and it turns out that all the professional associations in the sector, all the pemes, are fighting against this bid. This morning we also observe that it is happening with the granting of the 061 ambulance service. It can't be that we're in this situation and that we're trying to be contemporary. Indeed — and we will see it in the Special Committee on Relations with the Board of Auditors last morning — the Board of Auditors has to have, and it will certainly — because we trust it — a proactive role in the area of monitoring corruption as well. I believe that all groups of the House will contribute in that sense, without any doubt whatsoever. Because what can't be said is that, before he's fallen, we are called upon by original sin, as has already been said in several of the interventions by President Feijóo. Because he told us — I think I remember — that, since he has no scientific explanation on the subject of corruption, it was necessary to go to Adam and Eve. I may not have an explanation of quantum physics or particle physics -- which I do not know, but it does have an explanation from the point of view of social sciences, which is another of the branches of knowledge. Economic science, legal science and political science can explain why corruption. And in that sense, we insist on not accepting this amendment in any way, because it is very clear how much sense we pursue with the wording we have given it. I understand Mr Bará's scepticism when he talks about these issues. I'm also often very skeptical. Sometimes semantics can introduce us into a sea of confusion. But it is true that we have to go to the public management mechanisms that we have in hand in order to try to cut this gap. I am also grateful for the position of the En Marea Group to be able to bring forward this Anti-Fraud and Anti-Corruption Plan on Public Procurement in the Autonomic Public Sector. And I trust the People's Party to see it that way too. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u202	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and three other Members, on the realization by the Government of Greece of a report on the state of compliance of the autonomous legislation on equality laid down in Article 67 of Legislative Decree 2/2015, of 12 February 2015, in the autonomous bodies, in public societies, in the foundations of the public sector of Greece, in the public authorities linked or dependent bodies of the Autonomous Community and in bodies with differentiated appropriations in the general budgets of the Autonomous Community
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u203	Two amendments were tabled: one from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and one from the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u204	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today we are presenting an initiative which, on the one hand, is not welcome, and is not because it once again shows that inequality is a fact demonstrated that it needs specific plans to push and support its eradication. And you're not grateful for the part that has to get the colors out of the reality that affects the administration itself and the management of this government. I'd really love to be able to come here today with another initiative, one that talked about the steps taken and the few that are left to take, but it's not; sadly, it's not. The fundamental right to equality of women and men constitutes a fundamental value for democracy and is an essential necessity in a democratic and modern society that wishes to end the patriarchal, andrócentric and sexist system. The purpose of full compliance with this right must not only be legally recognised but must be exercised effectively, involving all aspects of life, politicians, economics, social and cultural. Legislative Decree 2/2015 of 12 February adopted the Consolidated Text of the Legislative Provisions of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the field of equality, and in Article 67 thereof states that equality plans will be compulsory for the autonomous administration, its autonomous bodies, public corporations, the foundations of the autonomous public sector, the public law entities linked or dependent to the autonomous Community and the bodies with differentiated allocations in the budgets of the Autonomous Community which, when lacking legal personality, are not formally integrated into the Administration of the Autonomous Community. This condition of compulsoryity is the one that drives this initiative, and it does it because one thing is that something appears in an article of a decree and a very different one is that it is put into practice. To be sure of that compliance is what we bring here today; to know what is the true state of equality in public bodies or their dependents and that they should be mirrors and examples of private ones. It is interesting that on the website of the Board itself, as an example of good practice, the equality plans of many companies or entities of a private nature, and only one, that of the University of Santiago de Compostela, in public character; plans, by the truth, of the antiquity—all of them—about seven years or more. Undoubtedly, the lack of information and transparency of the General Secretariat of Equality itself is lacking in this regard, drawing attention to the desire of this council on a subject that should be the axis of its daily work. Article 66 of the same decree speaks of another concept, of transparency. And he says that, without prejudice to the internal control and external evaluation systems on the fulfilment of the objectives set out in the Equality Plan, transparency will be ensured in its implementation through the access of workers and workers from companies and public bodies with competences in the field of equality and in the field of work to the content of objectives and their degree of compliance. Where are those plans of the bodies of the Union? Where are your goals? Where's your degree of compliance? But let's also see what the goals of a business equality plan are. The equality plans include the setting of targets, a code of good practices and effective systems of internal control and external evaluation on the fulfilment of objectives, as well as mechanisms for the re-adaptation of those objectives based on the results achieved. It is precisely the lack of transparency of those equality plans that should be in force that does not allow them to be used as models or to know in detail the objectives achieved in order, in any case, to re-adapt the objectives. What control are you doing? Is there any way to know that data? We understand that this is not about asking for an appearance here by a director general or counsellor; it is about the preparation of the report that we are demanding here today, why he collects the fulfilment of Legislative Decree 2/2015, of February 12, in his article 67, and that he does it with the utmost speed. We've been thinking about it in two months. It's enough time, since plans always have their own follow-up, or they should have it. It must be remembered here today that it was the Law on equal work for women in Galicia, which entered into force on 3 February 2007, which it conquered the first measures for equality in work, with measures to reconcile the working and family life of parents and parents, among others. For the first time, the flexible schedule, reception permits, lactation permits... since then, you've been walking, but how much? We stress the importance of the Administration's example in this area. The Equality Law requires only those companies with more than 250 workers to implement equality plans; the rest, unless they have their agreement, they are only recommended or awarded, but they are not required. That's why it's essential to set an example, to meet deadlines, to set goals, to encourage private initiative. We cannot place equality as the priority axis of a government and not act accordingly. The fact is that equality plans do not have a legally established duration, but it is necessary to set a time limit for the execution of the various measures, to be able to assess their effect, to be able to modify them, as if testing their effectiveness or detecting new needs, another reason to request this report. What are the deadlines this government has set in its plans? What evaluations did you carry out? What conclusions? The plans of the different organisms, when they were implemented and what vigil do they foresee? The truth is that I throw these questions into the air, because, frankly, by talking to employees of administration-dependent organisms, the answer is practically unanimous: most people don't know or know about the equality plans that affect them. Someone points to a plan for the entire Union. What they are talking about is the Seventh Strategic Plan of Galicia for equal opportunities between women and men from 2017 to 2020; a plan for all Galicia, not for workers of the Union and dependent bodies. Something, therefore, is failing in its implementation. Recall what Article 66 — I repeat — says about the transparency and accessibility of plans. Of course, you can't know or access what you don't have, or you're hidden. It should be noted that the decree is very clear: compulsory equality plans in each autonomous body, public societies, foundations of the autonomous public sector, linked public law entities or dependents of the Autonomous Community and bodies with differentiated appropriations in the budgets of the Autonomous Community. I know that the Government must consider that a generic and strategic plan of the Government serves to cover the entire spectrum of work dependent on Galician Union. What gives me the impression with all of this is that what is happening is that this government has once again understood that equality is a subject with which we can exercise the policy of cuts and that equality plans are a minor issue for this government. Once again, a lot of legislation, a lot of intentions and a lot of sales of smoke from measurements left in the drawer; and I don't say so, tell the unions themselves. UXT itself repeatedly denounced the failure of those plans to which the decree obliges. Here I am with these allegations which find out what I am commenting on: I wish this government that, since the adoption of the decree, it has already had a period of more than two years to approve it. Therefore, no plans in autonomous bodies, in public societies, or in foundations of the autonomous public sector, or in public law entities linked to or dependent on the Autonomous Community, or in bodies with differentiated appropriations in the budgets of the Autonomous Community. Like the French would say, nothing at all. There's a lot of data that is still alarming, and that's why we're very concerned that we're not fulfilling objectives and measures that this decree contemplates. In these days, we can read headlines like this: "The care of children and greater strength to 30,600 Greek women leaving the labour market." "Women still assume the role of caretakers by majority, 92% against 8% of men. """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""".""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" 63% of management positions are for men in a 70 percent female plant. "The Autonomic Administration has more women employed by the high presence of women in the fields of health and education, highly feminized work. However, women continue to be the injured in the presence of executive positions and high office positions." If today we are more licensed than licensed, 62% compared to 38%, how can we explain that this is not reflected in the achievement of executive positions, liability positions? Is it an act of women's mass generosity, or is it more likely that their careers are hampered by the reality of employment contracts, social penalties, the lack of co-responsibility and conciliation measures? These are all the issues that give meaning to equality plans. That is why I have already requested the support of all groups to this non-legislative proposal, which seeks only to obtain the data of the degree of realization and execution of equality plans in the field of bodies, public societies, foundations of the autonomous public sector, linked public law entities or dependent bodies of the Autonomous Community and bodies with differentiated appropriations in the budgets of the Autonomous Community. And to do that, yes, within two months, something that is undoubtedly feasible, because the report -- it's going to be very short -- it's going to be just three words: the plans are missing. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u206	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u207	Good afternoon, everyone. From the Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group we will vote favourably on this proposal, regardless of whether or not the Socialist Party partners accept the amendment we tabled and what I will then refer to, to begin with because we share a concern and a fundamental idea that brings the initiative together, with which we are in agreement, and which agrees, in addition, with the spirit of other proposals that we have brought this political organization to this House, which addresses - or has addressed some of them - which we also know as the Equality Law. And it is the concern that the role is not only in this, in a mere role that does not apply in practice in institutions, administration, or other areas of life that surrounds us; that concern that what we approve of in these parliaments does not have a translation on those issues which may depend directly on institutions and public bodies, as this whole issue mentioned by the comrade in regard to equality plans. We are concerned about the degree of compliance with this law, but especially by these public bodies, because, on the one hand, they are the ones most responsible for those who have to be more demanding and on those who are also presumed to have greater capacity for action and impact, to be examples, precisely, of other non-public institutions that can look at them. They are precisely, therefore - we think from the Galego Nationalist Block - these agents who should be the vanguard of equality measures, in front of other areas such as private enterprise, in which it may be more difficult to enter. In this sense, I do want to make a point on a question that we understand has to do with equality plans and that it is important to take into account. We understand that they are a necessary tool, that they are a useful tool, but that, if they exist, they do not automatically guarantee the achievement of the objectives they report. We want to put a couple of examples. There is a report made by the research team Antigona, of the Autonomous University of Barcelona, which is frankly interesting about the impact of equality plans, in this case in companies, but which has reflections that we understand could also be applied to other types of institutions. For example, as a technical starting point, as a theoretical point, macro, of these equality plans, it is often not aimed at achieving effective equality, but at applying formal equality or applying mere compliance with organic law, in this case, at the state level, of 3/2007. And they don't identify structural issues on fundamental inequality, but they simply refer to issues such as working climate, human resource optimization and so on. Not in vain, 45% of the companies studying this report - indicates this report, as I say - although they theoretically bet on promoting equality, do not provide for necessary measures to achieve that objective. It seems important to us to stress that not by naming equality in plans or in the law, if you will automatically get it if you don't get it from a plan that requires an evaluation, as proposed also in our amendment and that you also require a resource allocation. On the other hand, this study also marks the routine character or merely testimony of many plans, which are made because they need to be made, as a bureaucratic act more, a bureaucratic act that, as we see, our administration does not even bother to comply in many cases; and that lack of will prevents them from being seen also by the workers themselves and the workers themselves and by their employers as something useful and as something that deserves a delay. We understand that these issues need to be corrected and that the Administration should have a proactive role to contribute to this whole issue. We think it is important to know that organisms comply and that organisms do not, as the socialist spokesman himself said; it is mandatory by law and therefore necessary, but we did want to focus on a deeper issue as well. We're in a context where there's no recast text that brings together several laws and various legislative decrees, no transparency or self-assessment. It seems important to us that, in addition to knowing who does and who does not comply with these regulatory provisions, we should be able to promote a self-assessment that entails today this legal framework, that changes would be necessary to comply with and what impact it has to have on whether or not it should be updated, because even if the recast is 2015 it doesn't add any new question, it stirs up legal texts that some of them already have more than a decade and there may be issues that are out of hand; therefore, it's time to go further. But in any case, we feel very positive about the proposal made by the Socialist Party and we will vote in favour of it, whether or not this amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u208	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u209	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u210	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. You have the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u211	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot agree with the diagnosis made here about the situation of equality in the autonomous civil service. In recent years, starting in 2013 exactly, in the preparation of budgets, it participates in a cross-sectional subcommittee to analyse the impact of spending programmes on equal opportunities between men and women. And this is reflected in a full report of gender impact of general budgets. Also in 2013, the first Interdepartmental Commission on Equality was established; all councils working together to coordinate cross-cutting equality policies. It was the commission to devise the draft Decree on equal and prevention training against gender-based violence by staff at the service of the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, a text which is about to be adopted and with which we will be the first autonomous community to regulate equal training for all its staff. We have established possibilities for reconciliation so far unpublished for the administration's staff: 9,000 people enjoy flexible hours and also the telework initiative. In the new Public Employment Act we were the first community to extend the duration of birth, adoption or reception permits to 18 weeks. A month ago exactly, we approved the VII Strategic Plan on Equal Opportunities for Men and Women 2017-2020. In the first chapter of this ambitious plan to be carried out, one speaks of the integration of the principle of equality into the policies and actions of the Government, with twelve priority actions that reflect consolidation, strengthening and strengthening in the integration of cross-cutting into the policies of equal treatment and opportunity. Through this plan, this VII Equal Opportunity Plan will strengthen the inclusion of the principle of equality in the development of sectoral plans for the Union and its evaluation, the gender perspective that brings budgets to detect inequalities and prioritize public action on them will be enhanced, the inclusion of criteria in public procurement in the recently adopted Guide for Social Clauses, but also in the sub-ventional activity. Through the above-mentioned training decree, a formative model will be developed which combines basic training in equality on the basis of a specialized approach. Through this VII Strategic Plan, content on equality and prevention will be included and strengthened in the fight against gender-based violence in the areas of selection processes for access to public employment. Coordination and collaboration with local administration will be strengthened so that we can cope with possible inequalities in different countries. The Union has neither been nor will it be with arms crossed inside and outside the Public Administration. Today we have an administration with more possibilities for reconciliation and more gender perspectives than we had in 2009. However, and by noting these advances, the important thing when talking about equality is to talk about what remains to be achieved, and you pay attention to a subject that is true that remains a matter pending. The establishment of equality plans for the people who work in the public administration themselves if it's a pending task. This group has no problem assuming reality. Even if we move forward in equality, in the public service there are things to do and this is one of them, and it's the most important of them; hence our amendment. You ask for a report to make a note of what remains to be done. We, from the People's Party, have tabled a substitution amendment going one step further, assuming that ejaculation and making a proposal to solve it. That is why we call on the Government of Greece to draw up a plan for equality between men and women in the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and the instrumental public entities in the autonomous public sector. As we have defended since the beginning of legislation in the issue of equality, the important thing is not to blame or medals, the important thing is to move forward. Today I tried to expose everything that has been advanced in these years on many issues related to equality, but in the same way that I think it's important to put those advances in value, it's even more important to fix the pending challenges.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u212	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u213	Yes, I'm done. In this particular matter that you bring to the House, we give you the reason. We accept that it is true that it is pending, and we assume that it is true, that it is necessary to do so, but we believe that it is not enough to keep that finding that is what they are looking for with their text. That is why we propose an amendment for this pending challenge to be addressed now and done with the support and momentum of all political groups. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u214	Thank you very much, Mrs. García Míguez. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u215	Thank you, President, and good afternoon. The fact is, to me, quite contradictory, the speech of the People's Party, even though I'm already quite accustomed, in the months I've been listening to it. Because, on the one hand, they say that the opposition only makes very negative reports, that reality is much better than it is — although today, at least, they assumed that in this particular issue they have a challenge pending — but then they talk about the gender perspective in their budgets and to me this, frankly, seems insulting and false, and the data, fortunately — I am not going to talk about the budgets today because we have this debate and because I want to focus on the PSOE initiative, they are in the eyes of everyone. That's why I understand it's not necessary to extend much more. From Marea we will vote in favour of this initiative because we understand that it is particularly worrying about the situation in which we find ourselves in the autonomous administration, because it should set an example in progress towards achieving equality, but we often see that this remains in good words, in good intentions, sometimes also in good legislative measures and in good plans. And in this too, I wanted to talk about the comment made by the spokesperson for the Nationalist Block of Wales: everything we write will do nothing if that goes behind a real commitment of all, and, above all, with a commitment not verbal but also budgetary. For example, it would be logical for the public administration to be vanguarded in the implementation of these equality plans, and we see today as, a long time later, there are still shortcomings. And to assess exactly what degree we are failing, we must study the situation in detail, so we understand that the Socialist Party's initiative is appropriate. Two months of time seems to us to be sufficient, which is reasonable. We're not satisfied with the amendment of the People's Party because we just understand that it's not going any further, but quite the opposite; it's putting back something that has already been announced on other occasions but without commitment to a specific date, a specific time, which is what we really need. We don't need to say that we want and that we need equality plans because that's already said on many occasions. We need to know when they will be evaluated, what equality plans are right now, and that is why we want specific dates. Then I think it's urgent for us to do self-criticism and make the Government self-criticism, because we don't understand that we are in a very favorable situation. To claim that we are better than in 2009 should not be used to brake us, but quite the opposite. The gender perspective needs to be improved, which is absent in many budget programs, regulations and self-government plans. As I said before, many of these advances are indeed collected in the law, but we must think that, just when we see that these advances are collected in the law and not serve to advance in real equality, what we need is to find out what we're failing at, evaluate everything we put on and why ultimately it doesn't translate into improvements in gender equality. Of course, we think it is fundamental — as I said — that this decree should be complied with, but of course, we believe that it is not enough. We think we should take one more step, push equality plans in all companies, also in private companies, including small and medium-sized enterprises, and we understand that these plans cannot be voluntary. That is why we believe that the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block complements the initial proposal of the Socialist Party. We especially agree, and we must stress, the necessary communication with social agents, organizations and feminist groups, because we believe that it is not being done as it should be. Feminist collectives are often going to talk about the evaluation of the Equality Law to the Equality Commission, but that is absolutely useless, unfortunately, because they have many lessons to teach us and perhaps since the Government is not listening with enough attention. I think this subject is still a secondary subject. If it is true that you are now much more in the political agenda, you speak more, but -- as you have commented -- plans are either nonexistent, or are insufficient, or are unknown to workers and workers. What we need — as I said — is to put feminist policies into practice in all areas, and it would be essential for the public administration to set an example. They show their real will by voting favourably, two months is enough time, because what we need are resources, more political will and less beautiful speeches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u216	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. You have the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group that is the author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the explanatory statement has already been duly presented by me as well as the rest of the speakers, I will place myself directly on the amendments tabled. We agree to add the amendment tabled by the BNG Parliamentary Group, since we believe it will complete ours. The review and the study on the impact and degree of compliance of Legislative Decree 2/2015 appear to be achievable, since today, among other things, the failure of many of its points, which has to lead us to reflect on whether concepts such as compulsory concepts are viable; whether these concepts imply something more than the value of a word. In this case, of course, there are no consequences for non-compliance. The other amendment that the Group of the People's Party proposes, as a substitution, seems to us to be a little bit of a hit on its replacement version, because it does not contemplate times and makes what is already known: that there is no updated plan or follow-up. The lack of initiative demonstrated so far by the Government to comply with what the decree itself requires, leads us to include deadlines to achieve a first step towards the implementation of the equality plans called for. So, Mrs. Garcia, I invite you to turn the replacement amendment into an add-on and to include a deadline. The step you said goes further, we see it well. Let us show him the pace of the passage. Since what is pursued here is the start of the plans, I think what we all have to worry about is its delay of two years until the moment in implementation, and they lead us to impose deadlines that are already urgent, I understand. But as before these plans we believe that if it is necessary to analyze the facts so far, even if it is nothing — because swims too reflect realities to be analyzed — we cannot accept its amendment of substitution without more. I call on them anyway, and I urge them, in this first instance, to support the preparation of this previous report, in addition to, as you propose, the development of the Equality Plan. The popular voicer also speaks of the existence of a subcommittee that monitors the fulfilment of equality and the prospect of gender in Galicia. I said it myself. I'm sure there are steps that have taken, that's right. If you're already counting on the work done to assess that subcommittee, I understand that you shouldn't have a problem moving them in the report you're requesting here. So we'll be in those delighted to support your amendment. I understand you should have no problem with this conciliation I propose to you, and you should add your proposal as another new point, with that deadline set for what we can talk about. I would like to thank the support of the other groups who have already shown their support for this non-law proposal. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u218	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and nine other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government for the drive of the modernisation of the railway connection between The Coruña and Ferrol, as well as strategic planning in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u219	This proposal was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez; another of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco; and another of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galego, on the initiative of Mr José Luis Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u220	Mr Martín Fernández Prado has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u221	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I believe that it is clear that in recent years, the road map of Greece is the subject of a profound process of renewal and modernization of lines and services that has already been translated into providing better service to citizens, assuming an important improvement in the mobility of thousands of Greeks that they choose each day for this means of transport to carry out their daily movements. The most significant example — I believe — of this railway transformation is found in the high-speed Atlantic axis, which is working with great success and extraordinary hospitality from citizens and providing competitive and more responsive services to the needs of users. The high-speed Atlantic axis was put into service in April 2015. Since then, the five million passengers have been largely exceeded and we are going towards the target of the 6 million users. At the same time, we continue to take the necessary steps to develop and complete Galicia's connection with the High Speed Meseta, where all the journey from Ourense to Madrid, except for access to the city, is already in work or in service. In this sense, the State General Budget Project for 2017 collects the allocation of the necessary games to advance on the high-speed line between Madrid and Galicia, according to the deadlines for the arrival of AVE in the third quarter of 2019. In the face of these advances, it seems also clear and reasonable to continue to drive and guarantee high-quality rail connections at other points in the community, such as Lugo, Ferrol and its region. With regard to the first, in Lugo, the German Parliament has recently approved an initiative by this parliamentary group to improve the railway services between Lugo and Ourense through Monforte, and we have already seen these commitments in the General Budget Project of the State. In the case of the train to Ferrol -- we've talked about this on other occasions -- I think we share the clear need to improve this service. That is why, recently, in Commission 2 of 15 March, an initiative by the PSdeG-PSOE was unanimously approved to improve the direct rail connection between The Coruña and Ferrol, the modernisation of this route and the assessment of the necessary frequencies. In this line, the People's Party's Parliamentary Group today brings to plenary this House the non-legislative proposal that it had previously registered, concerning the modernization of the railway connection between Coruña and Ferrol; an improvement that will not only allow the departmental city to be connected in a fast and modern way with the Atlantic axis, with the VA to the Meseta and with the rest of the long-distance lines, but also – which is equally important – that it becomes an important metropolitan structural element, improving the railway transport of the urban region's connection The Coruña-Ferrol and also becoming a transport of efficient and competitive surroundings. In order to give this project as much viability as possible, the Popular Group considers it advisable to work on modernising this connection in a way that can be addressed in successive phases, with which it has been put into progressive operation already allowing for better travel between both cities. In addition, the proposal calls on the Ministry of Development for strategic planning to advance this objective firmly and consistently, establishing successive phases for the development of the actions, so that their progressive put into service allows them to go short on their journey times. On the one hand, he asks for a complete planning with a clear definition of the transport model, I think in the line of what we unanimously agreed to for Lugo, avoiding the errors of some of the past schedules. On the other hand, it allows to improve and be more competitive in partial works. I therefore believe that it is obvious that from the People's Party's Parliamentary Group we want to promote the modernisation of the line between Coruña and Ferrol because we truly believe that the railways deserve a train up to the new era of rail transport that will open the VA to Galicia and that they are already enjoying partly the users of the Atlantic axis. This is a People's Group commitment to citizenship. We must remember that the modernization of the railway line between A Coruña and Ferrol to make it an attractive and competitive service already appeared collected in the electoral program of this group which was referendumed by most of the Greeks. Since the German Government, steps have already been taken to advance the fulfilment of this electoral commitment, because the modernization of railway services in Ferrol was part of the agenda of the meeting that the president of the Union maintained with the Minister of Development last January. The Galician Union therefore considers it essential to work in this dual sense: to act on the railway infrastructure because the improvement of the line will make it possible to shorten the times of the journey, and to offer competitive services to citizens; but surely there is also the ability to improve in the short term in the marketing and frequency of the service. In addition, it should be remembered that the Italian Executive, through the Directorate-General for Mobility, is undertaking a study to improve mobility in the railway corridor A Coruña-Ferrol, which has an budget of 21.77 euros. It's already adjudicated and running, with an estimated time of about six months, so the conclusions will be in the last quarter of this year. The aim of this work is to provide a support tool to demand better rail services from the Ministry of Development, made from a Greek perspective. The study will analyze the current movements of citizens through this corridor The Coruña-Ferrol and its improvement, according to certain actions that can be developed; and it will also expand to commodities. More specifically, these railway infrastructures and their layout will be analysed in order to significantly improve both passenger and freight transport services on the current line. In relation to the transport of passengers, the various variants will be studied to increase the speed of operation, so that they can go with them to get significantly lower travel times than current ones and which can compete with road transport. As for the carriage of goods by rail, the increase in the maximum loads that can tow any locomotive that runs through the line will be studied in order to promote rail intermodality and improve the supply of transport of goods in the urban arable region. In addition, the study will make a comparison of the current route in the regular public transport line of travellers with the proposed structures. This work will also analyse the synergies between rail and road transport and vice versa, in order to facilitate intermodality and improve global mobility. The saying, a complete study of improvements that will allow a better definition of the rail transport model and the demands to be transferred to the Ministry of Development. Finally, I would like to remind you that the 2017 general government budget project already plans to improve the line between Coruña and Ferrol and for an informative study of Betanzos. Specifically, for the variant of Betanzos, it proposes an investment of half a million euros in the information study, and in addition Adif reserves four million euros in the improvement of the line to Ferrol, Ferrol-A Coruña, until 2019. It's EUR 4.5 million in three years to improve the line in infrastructure and services, while a definitive and global solution for the railway is proposed. I think it's a good way. And I remind you again -- it's not the first time I do it and I think it's important to remind the political groups represented in the General Courts that it now takes responsibility on the part of those groups so that the general budgets of the State can be approved as soon as possible, because if we are not going to be able to do these projects. It is clear that the most important thing is that budgets can be executed, and to be executed, of course, they must be approved in advance. So to continue to support this demand for the citizenship of Ferrolterra and Galicia in general, and to put the train to Ferrol in the same degree of development in which they are or are going to be enjoying other users of other German railway lines, we today bring to plenary this non-law proposal which we believe strengthens the already approved in commission, and for which I ask — as did the other — the unanimous support of the groups. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. You have the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. The other day it was Ana Pontón, our spokesperson, who kept Mr. Feijóo on the train journey, sure that she would arrive first by bicycle; I mean the Ferrol-A Coruña route. She's very young, and I put my hand on the fire that came before, but I'd be able to do it too, and I'm not going to light it. It's a train that doesn't meet the standards that are required in today's world, losing opportunities in this area and turning its neighborhood into second-century citizens. [[Applause]] Indeed, and do not take offense, the GNP presented here today seems like an offense to the common sense and seriousness and good criteria of this House: more phases and more PNL to encourage the Government of the State to gradually promote strategic planning, progressive put into service, successive phases, short-term travel, I know! Since BNG we're surprised that we're not told that there's no coal machines anymore and let's celebrate this with rockets. Those who when one opened the window filled their eyes with garbage, I lived it. When we're on this railway in Galicia, there are secular demands that we don't ask to be understood by the Spanish parliamentarians, but rather by the parliamentarians who left here, our country, who should defend there, in the Spanish Parliament, the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks who voted for them and put them there. This is what we propose today as an amendment: to use the pressure weapons that the votes give us here and there. There are state budgets to be approved. To enforce the interests of the Greeks is a priority, but it's also to cut off from the roots that secular-haired boot with the railroad. How many rounds have you suffered or high-speed train? How are the proximity services? What about the fever? They know that the future without smoke, sustainable, passes through comfortable public transport, fluid, fast and available to people. When are we going into the future? It's a matter of public service, and in that we're not because of the weakness and the meekness, we're going to pronounce a fine one! and move it to Madrid. Yes, of course, BNG has no Members in Madrid! We're missing them, aren't we? The budgets presented by the Government Rajoy are a cold water jug for the expectations of improving the proximity rail infrastructures, both the Coruña-Ferrol line and the line of the old Feve Ferrol-Ortegal. Ferrol and its region are an example of the consequences of the cut-off of a vital infrastructure such as connection with the Coruña and the whole north. According to you, it's all done: the study of improvement, meetings in various bands. So what do you want with this initiative? Do you encourage them not to back up again? Because that's the point of this story. So, really, no offense, we're asking them to join us in Galicia. The Galician Parliament therefore agreed as a resolution to urge the Galician Council to address the Congress of Deputies to claim significantly, to parliamentarians elected by Greek constituencies in Congress, to request an budgetary departure for this 2017 for the modernization of the A Coruña-Ferrol connection. And if not included, vote against the 2017 budgets. This is our proposal. Are you all right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas Cruz. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. The People's Parliamentary Group today brings to this plenary a non-legislative proposal which has already been unanimously adopted in Commission 2nd, tabled by the Socialist Party of Galicia. And also after the Coruña Deputies, supported by all the political groups represented there, made an institutional statement of support for the railway infrastructure between the Comarcas of Coruña and Ferrol. Allow me some general reflections that we share — at least theoretically — of a certain nature. One of the most important objectives of European Union policy is to separate the economic growth of the member countries from the increase in vehicle volume necessary to meet their needs. The numerical reality contradicted that goal year after year. The private vehicle park grows every year, with therefore a negative impact on the environment. Current trends in mobility in Spain, Galicia and also in the Coruña continue to show a preference for the use of the particular vehicle in relation to the use of public transport. It is true that road and air transport of long routes tends to grow, but does not compensate for the fall in proximity transport, whether road or rail. This situation has a simple and recognizable explanation: railway lines exist, they do not have proper maintenance or are object of renewal. The facts clearly show that these infrastructures are not in the political agenda of the People's Party's governments. They are neither to facilitate mobility nor to reduce pollution, and we must remember that the sustainable transport of people and goods through rail produces smaller social and environmental costs than current ones, and reduces the weight of the private vehicle as a means of transport and oil as a source of energy. We believe that rail transport, for the above reasons, must have a relevant role as a vertebrate element of the socio-economic development of a territory. To this end it must count on the necessary infrastructures, the necessary frequencies and stops and schedules adapted to the transport of people and goods in the territorial field. It must also have sufficient flexibility to adapt to new circumstances caused by situations. In this context, the districts of Ferrol and La Coruña, where the infrastructures would make possible a sustainable transport policy of people and commodities, are seriously neglected. The old railway line Ferrol-A Coruña turns out to be an example of political disillusionment: bad-state stations, semi-abandoned fences, reduced frequencies, unattractive times. Finally, the railway line The Coruña-Ferrol has been undergoing cuts in recent years, in its proximity services, which are causing the consequent and drastic decrease in the passage. We believe, as has happened elsewhere in Galicia, that such cuts are oriented to justify the total elimination of the line through the loss of attractiveness and competitiveness. And, to this end, the Socialist Parliamentary Group presents the following amendment of addition. In the resolution part of the initiative, a point 3 should be added which will have the following content: "Ask the Government of Spain for the use of the appropriate budgetary and administrative mechanisms to ensure that at the end of 2017 the study of the improvement of the railway line Ferrol-A Coruña is completed and the procedures for its execution are initiated". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u226	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u227	Well, this is an awesome-haired boot of the People's Party, impressive. I'm looking for the role of investments in the Ferrol-A Coruña line of the last 100 years. I found him, he's here. These are the investments of the Ferrol-A Coruña train in the last 100 years and the great work of the People's Party. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It turns out... yeah, yeah, all right, all right. You guys, the last few days are very good and very successful. Yes, gentlemen of the People's Party! Like to be so happy! They're even accused of talking about taking two shots at the judges and everything, it's already growing. You're a walking show. [[Murmurs.]] The exhibition of motives — please, silence! — is a compliment to the railway policy developed in these years... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u228	Quiet, please. I'm hanging out for everyone, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u229	I understand that this initiative is ridiculous, but they contain themselves, they contain themselves.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u230	No initiative is ridiculous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u231	...that you come here to ask the Government of the State for a strategic design of what has to be Ferrol's line when the Government of Galicia should have its strategic design for the Ferrol-The Crown line... it's normal for them to get nervous. Look, you make a compliment, in the explanatory statement, of rail policy in recent years, of enormous modernization. Look, in this country, after thirty years of massive entry of European infrastructure funds, we have two lines that work and the rest that are abandoned. But we're talking about 100-year-olds leaving, huh! It's no joke. I was talking about comrade Mini that we know a cure of these who would laugh at the caricatures of the entrance, the carnival, against [...] Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u232	That expression is taken away.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u233	Borrifán's priest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u234	Sorry, Mr. Sánchez, that expression is withdrawn, and you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u235	I take that expression away, I take that expression away. Excuse me, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u236	No, no, but be careful, we'll finish the full.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u237	Borrifáns' priest told me they were on the train track, in a small pendant in that parish, anointed to stop the train and steal coal, which was needed to heat up the houses. Well, that's the reality of most of the train tracks in this country. It's all abandoned. There's an obsession with the radial and centralist design of the Spanish state, agreed by the Union and the People's Party. It completely forgets the internal vertebration of this country, the connection with Portugal, the connection of goods and travellers to the north, the Cantabrian, Europe, with our exit to Europe, and not to the Meseta, which until reaching Madrid, there is no population that exceeds the 100,000 inhabitants. We're going with the train, and we're going to bury billions in the Spanish steppe. That's right, for Europe, no, that we don't need either merchandise or to take anything to Europe. That's the great balance sheet of the Greek Government. You may be satisfied. And, after the hair takeover, do you have any clear ideas or are you trying to get us hair all the time? On April 17, 2012: "The Union expects the proximity train to arrive in Galicia before the end of the legislation. The nearest train is approaching Galicia. The Ministry of Development has planned to study this real possibility of implementing this means of transport in Galicia in the coming months. However, sources from the People's Party and the Galician Union itself in 2012, make it clear that this time it goes seriously." February 12, 2017: "Galicia, the only coastal community without proximity train; Ferrol-A Coruña and Vigo-Pontevedra, the only conurbations of that dimension without proximity train. Do you know what you want, Mr. Fernández Prado? Because we knew there was a project and an informative study that studied alternatives to the high speed between Coruña and Ferrol with the Atlantic axis, which the Atlantic axis ended in Ferrol, right? Nothing has been said about this initiative. And they had another to create the proximity service. They had two: high speed and proximity. They created the nearby agency, didn't they? Mr. Agustín Hernández announced the bomb and dish the creation of the nearby management. And now this initiative, what do you mean? What is it? A remix? Because, specifically, what do you want? Because in Lugo-Ourense you've adapted to a study by civil society, it's true, from the Atlantic axis, from a former mobility director at the Galician board, who said, "Let's make some variants, let's reduce the radius of the curves..." Nothing here, studying a strategic plan to improve times. Is there something there? Because we have no high speed or proximity, it's a remix, it's a ton of hair. What we do not know -- let's say it once -- is why a line that unites a population of 500,000 inhabitants, Ferrol-La Coruña, under all conditions, with very little money to give a social service of special importance, has not developed nor have you raised your voice for its development. And as for budgets, let's just leave that, which is also ridiculous. Do we have to approve budgets in the state for the decisive investment of 4.5 million in three years for the Ferrol-A Coruña line? Are you kidding us, Mr. Fernández? 4.5 million is what we need on the Ferrol-A Coruña line so there can be competitive times, frequencies and services? Are we getting the hair? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u238	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u239	Good afternoon, and thank you again. Mr. Rivas, I remind you that the situation on the track was even worse... yes, yes, when I was ruling... No, no, when the PSOE budgets were approved, PSOE gentlemen, with the BNG's favorable vote, it hurts to hear this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, now it's time to listen. I listened politely.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u240	Quiet, please! Let those who are in the use of the word. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u241	I know they don't like to hear that, when I ruled the PSOE and you were sucking up the high value of BNG's votes, budgets didn't even include 4.5 million euros, so listen. But by the way, there are those millions in the 2017 budget, and we're going to have to define that strategic model that he demanded to be able to run the works. Mr. Pérez Seco, this proposal that we are bringing together extends and reinforces the proposal that was already approved. We understand that, as I said, such planning is necessary to allow us to define the model, Mr Sánchez. Because, of course, a solution such as that proposed for Lugo-Uurense is possible. And also this study, which is already hired—don't change the money to try to say what we didn't say, is hired the study—will talk about those necessary works so that this investment, necessary for the necessary improvement of the track, will allow both competitive times for the long-distance lines and allow the transport of fences to combine the use of that infrastructure, as is proposed in other cases. These 4.5 million are needed in budgets, because if they don't approve budgets, they won't be reflected. And, of course, what we want to avoid with this study and this negotiation is what happened in that high-speed study: that a high-speed approach with an impact and a social rejection that did not compensate for the improvements in times that can improve the service of this route. I'm done now, but I'd really like to comment to you first. We didn't get anybody's hair here. I think you helped quite a lot, Mr. Sánchez, if there was any. I take this Parliament quite seriously than you do, which seems to think you come here to the comedy club. And it's not. This is a serious matter, where we want to come to work and improve. And what I ask you to do is to have the same respect, when I present these initiatives, which I think I have with you. In any case, you are in a position to introduce another if you consider it more appropriate. As for the amendments — and I have already finished, Mr President — I believe that the amendment of the PSOE is negotiable. We can talk about it. He could also incorporate part of the first part of En Marea into that transaction. The second, no; asking for the transfer of the railway system is not going to accept it. As far as the Block is concerned, budgets from the 2017 State budget have already been raised for the improvement of this track. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u242	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, at the initiative of Da Oolaia Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the Order of 14 March 2017 laying down the rules for the application of the curriculum of educational concerts with private teaching centres for the academic course 2017-2018 et seq.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u243	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u244	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u245	Thank you, President. Let's see if we can go on like this, keeping the pulse. Today we bring to this House an initiative with which we call for a derogation from the order signed on March 14 by the Galician Union with which the People's Party wants to shield private-concert education in our country, including those centres that discriminate against students by sex. The order extends them, as you know, from four to six years old, into a dying law like LOMCE. It extends from four to six years these educational concerts and commits until August 2023 — nothing more and nothing less! — 1,550 million euros of the public era, I repeat, 1,550 million of the budgets of the board of Galicia to continue to dine the private school with the money of the workers and the workers of this country. All in all — today we have had the opportunity to listen to Vivenda's advisor — is more money that will receive these concerts, much more than those that will have the Vivenda Council for the next five years. Besides, they do so for a while longer than their government lasts, nothing better than to imitate Mr. Manuel Fraga. I don't know if you remember that he signed a pretty similar order there for the year 2005, which he shielded precisely the educational concerts by the year 2009. I wait, already putting the sale above even before the wound, that they have no shame of going up here accusing my group of absolutely nothing. Now the People's Party decides to allocate every year, during a legislate and a half, 258 million euros, which will come out, as has been the case over these years, of the increasingly clumsy public school games. Since you returned to Galicia, back in 2009 — go from eight years already — the Education Council has accumulated a cut of EUR 2 billion. And at this time, while they were closing public schools — in total, in the last five, 59 public schools — they increased 243 units in the concert. They've been raised to 69% since 2009. They take the private without complexes and without measure, even in cities and villages where squares are left in public school. The question is so scandalous — and we would almost say that it is so obscene — that for years you have been working on the training cycles of vocational training with a small number of students. For example, at the El Piñeira school in Arzua — which is in Opus Dei’s hands, as you will know — when there is a public centre in the same area dedicated to vocational training with the same branch — not the same formative cycle but the same branch — that could accommodate that student. Or another, by taking just two examples, is the award of a new concert to the center of Casa do Neno, here in the city of Compostela, in the capital of the country, also belonging to the Catholic Church, with a registration of only 13 students, when the public centers in their school area have enough vacant squares to get them to school. This is called a process of replacing one teaching model with another — yes, paying the board; nothing new, on the other hand — the purest thatcherism, if we go back a little back to the most recent history of our European environment. We were talking before the silent revolution. Mrs. Margaret Thatcher was talking about conservative modernization with regard to the United Kingdom. In short, favoring greater and easier access to private education through these concerts, which reduce enrolment and increase units at the same time as liberalizing demand, giving greater freedom of choice to families. In the meantime, teaching staff in public school are shrinking. As we have seen, just a few years ago, 1,500 teachers less — known by the Ministry of Education itself — have gone through the depreciation of squares. Neoliberalism without labels. And in that plan — now taking advantage of the fact that Mine is going through Lugo — you decide that it is the best time not only to hold concerts but to broaden their vigency and suppress, from the criteria they reject, the preference of education on equal terms, again appearing in the dying LOMCE, which has legalized, as you know — you know better than anyone — funding with public money from segregation, the separation of women and men, from teaching centres, the Frankish model of education. Some of his lordships will remember him who, by age, studied these years of fascist dictatorship for his academic courses. Inherit that kept the Catholic Church alive in our country through its most ultra and most reactionary aspect, as Opus Dei, in up to five centers here in our country, showing up in the supposed freedom of choice of families recognized by the 1978 Constitution, another great victory of the Spanish transition. You approved last March an order that goes against the most basic principles set out in the Law for the Comprehensive Prevention and Treatment of Male Violence, but also in your Plan for Equality in Education, yours! His Plan for Equality in Teaching, of which they are so proud, now passes it absolutely — and they excuse the expression — by the arch of triumph, and without scruple at all, because the concerted education — we know all that we are here — we pay it all but only responds to the guidelines of the entity that is the owner of the center, which does and undos its disappointment, that is yes, with the public money. They cover hundreds of thousands of euros — I repeat: EUR 1,550 million — over the next six years to a school that does not have to guarantee any equality criteria in its educational programme to opt for public funds and that can even separate women from men in classes — from you — because this does not mean any discrimination. Malcolm X said: "They are false and hypocritical"; Malcolm X said about racial segregation in the United States. "South Africa" — I said — "when less preaches segregation and practises segregation. The United States — and we make it extensible to the attitude that the People's Party maintains — "is preaching integration, co-education, but practicing segregation." Look, would you feed your daughters at a table separated from men just because they're just women with someone making sure they give them the same food? Do you think someone in this Parliament is going to create schools for black people or for gypsy people? It's an attack on equality from every possible point of view, and it serves solely and exclusively to ideological precepts and religious fanaticism. You're funding fans with money from everyone and then they say they want to approve, like it was, an equality plan for the people who work in the public administration. [[Applause]] We understand that it won't hit the teacher that we paid among all of us and that it works in those concerted schools that segregate the student by sex. "Coeducation is a process of social transformation that points to a coexistence between the sexes apart from mutual oppression and tending to a relationship of justice and respect." So you preach in the introduction of your Equality Plan, in the first page, in the third paragraph. They must be breaking up with laughter in Montespiño, which is part of these centers that in our country practice and promote what they call "differentiated education." And you can visit lots of websites where they sell their propaganda and whose pamphlets say — and I read — "Women have achieved an equality, at least formal, at the price of losing their femininity. And men are ashamed of a masculinity that today is despised by a society that prefers female models of behavior and behavior." I'm waiting for them to come here to explain to us what it's like to be a woman and be a woman. The book is Sexual Alterity. The intolerable truth, but we could catch many others, dozens, who market these kinds of platforms: stolen masculinity, men and women, brains and education — this is or is most successful — war against boys, or boys with boys, girls with girls. It stinks of sexism and homophobia, and the worst thing is that you know it. This order of concerts, ladies and gentlemen, keeps Galicia attached to the past and to a model of society that we have worked since the Nationalist Block of Galicia to remain like what it is: an anachronism that has no place in today's society. By the way, I remind you that we are in April 2017, in case someone thought — as in recent days we also saw General Sanjurjo pay military tribute, or, among other things, to the former Minister of Justice as they sang the Face of the Sun to the assassin of Salvador Puig Antich — that we woke up in 1947. [[Applause]] Our country deserves a public school, a quality school, with sufficient human, material and economic resources and not second-level public education centres. The public budget of a country must be used to develop its people fairly and fairly. And the only way to ensure that this happens is by investing in public education. And so what we are defending today is to override this order and replace it by another that prioritizes investment in the public by progressively suppressing concerts. Do you want public education? Great, but they pay for it. It is a way, in addition, that will not bring Galicia the chaos, nor would I leave—and I will finish, president—the children without school, they spoil, who knows, wandering for the sake of a fate of Siberian steppe. It is a road which has already begun in Portugal — precisely today, April 25th —. The neighboring country has shut down the billiards a while ago and has begun to remove public funds from the concerted school. Only one week has the Portuguese Government suppressed 60% of the grants that these schools hold. They are brave—for that they will count on our support—and demonstrate by facts that they are on the side of public education and, most importantly, real and effective equality between women and men, without hypocrisy. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u246	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u247	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil, as you know, our group has tabled an amendment to its proposal, not because we are not in agreement with the substance of what is proposed in its initiative, but because of a question of pragmatic realism, if I may express myself. In any case, before going to the bottom of this subject of the amendment, I mean that everything you said is true, I can subscribe line by line, with all the signs of spelling — including triples — that's what you said. It is an absolutely regrettable fact, which has been discussed more often in this Parliament, the situation of concerts with centres that segregate by sex and even that pseudo-scientificism that exists and which tries to justify in pedagogical criteria that students can be segregated by sex and that this also improves their educational performance, which is already the culmination of the lack of awareness of the functioning of the education system. But, well, they believe in their reality, and now we know that there are also possibilities, alternative truths, and the fact is that they live happily like this. But the truth is, too, that reality shouldn't be in any case subsidized or paid by public office. If they want it that way, let them pay it. But there is an additional reality that you have just described in your intervention and that is present in this new order of concerts. And it takes beyond the strictly legal observance of educational concerts and its extension in time. It is true that there is a law — which you rightly qualified as a dying man or, at least, in a state of flat encephalogram — which establishes that concerts in primary education have to be for six courses. And, therefore, it is the duty of the Council of Galicia and of all other administrations to comply with that law, that is obvious. But taking the rest of the educational concerts to six years instead of four is an option. You understand me, I'm not saying it's illegal, because it can also be done, but it's optional. And so they're shielding themselves for six years centers and teachings that, as you also pointed out perfectly, if you're keeping in school in agreement with ratios of students who in public education would be suppressed. And that's absolutely unacceptable, that can't be accepted. But, of course, if we also shield them for six years, we give them life to these concerts during this legislation and half the next one. And as you very well pointed — and I fully agree — there will be someone here who will say that the two-party government has done nothing. Of course not! The concerts signed by a government were armoured in July 2005 for four years, and when they were remodeled there was obviously a government of the People's Party. So the two-party government couldn't do anything either. But well, we'll still take part in the co-responsibility quota, even though we can't do anything in that sense. We're used to the fact that in the distribution of successes we've never been part of the quota, we've never had any fights, and in the distribution of responsibilities on mistakes we have the complete Talonaires; that is, I'm sure it's up to us. [[Applause]] But in any case — and as I told you before about our amendment — we fully agree with what you put in point 1, for the reasons that you exposed and for the reasons that I just nuanced about the duration of those concerts. But in point 2 and point 3 we introduce a nuance that we really consider important and realistic at the same time; that is to say, a study of how educational concerts can be progressively suppressed. But for that we also have to be realistic. One thing is a desire, that is, we'd like a stage like what you're proposing. But the reality is that we have to be sensible, and we cannot phase out the centres progressively, firstly, because it would be necessary to build dozens, possibly hundreds, of new educational centres. And besides, there's a no smaller topic, which is the job situation where the professor is going to be teaching in these concerted centers. Because, of course, they are workers who would have to seek a solution, but that solution does not seem very reasonable either to go through an assumption by the Administration — from good to first — of that professor, given that the public education teacher had to undergo a process of opposition to consolidate his job. So we need to analyze in depth at least those two aspects: centers and teachers. And from there, it's when we can analyze which scenarios open up to us and how you can place or restore the student who is currently studying his teachings in those educational centers. So — I insist — at the first point we agree; in the second and third we are proposing this amendment of amendment that you know and on which I hope it will be delivered. Or, if not, from here on to the polling day — which will be tomorrow — we will come to some kind of agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u248	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u249	Good afternoon to all and to all. As it cannot be otherwise, the Parliamentary Group of En Marea will support this non-legislative proposal. It's a shame we're facing some kind of deja vu, because either here's something extraordinary going on or it's going to be expected that this proposal will end up with the vote against the People's Party. Of course it's not the first time this matter comes into this House. We, as I said, will support it, because it fully coincides with the position we have had to explain in this House on previous occasions. Even in the previous plenary session, when we asked the advisor about this order and the reasons that led to it, he openly contradicted all the previous statements on equality in teaching, which leaves this plan of equal action to the educational institutions which they so much like to boast about. They are constant contradictions, because they come up here and talk about strengthening public education on equal terms, but they increase the funding of the Machist centers that segregate the student, those that take the children to Bernabéu and the girls to visit social eaters and to learn hook. Two weeks ago, when I was talking about an imaginary example that I had invented of embroidery classes for children and physical work for children, the laugh counselor, as well as laughing at the popular bench. He seemed to be exaggerating. But then it turns out that in just two days reality has surpassed fiction, and it turns out that, from exaggeration of reality, nothing. The centers you finance decide that girls have to learn hook and the kids go to Bernabéu. Then they tell us that this has nothing to do with machismo. How does it happen to us? If we are actually faced with real pedagogical innovations in the field of equality that we still don't know. But not only do they increase funding, but they're in charge of shielding, as was said here, the business over the deadlines set by law, that everything is tied and well tied, of course. They're shielding concerts with these educational centers up to course 2022-2023, giving them nothing more and nothing less than 260 million euros from public education every year. How to risk losing that business so substantial that it means privatization of teaching! You just have to ask your colleague in Madrid, Mr. Granados, who put nothing more and nothing less than EUR 900,000 for each concert. That's no wonder the concerts are rising. How they won't increase! He said he didn't charge Parliament alone. They are grey areas of the law, you know, but they are soon obscured, as are also the commitments on equality and co-education by this government. Wet paper, sadly liquidated in a land-based order of progress in recent years. Everything under the excuse of that supposed constitutional right — of what we have to hear so many times — is supposed not to say clearly false. They may repeat it to satiety, but educational concerts are neither a sort of constitutional right nor anything remotely similar, but a political measure established at a particular time to solve what should not be more than a conjunctural logistical problem: the absence of squares in public school, a problem that — they know well — is practically resolved at present and which, of course, in their hands is just solved. So it's not about rights, it's just about ideology. And we're not going to be the ones who say ideology has no place in this space. Otherwise, this is the preferred place for ideology. What it can't be is to try to justify on the basis of legality what is a concrete political position, which, as was said here, smells of sexism and smells of the past. Our position, on the other hand, is clear and we are not ashamed to express it: we bet on public education, secular education, free of charge, inclusive, universal and feminist. And for that, we have to reduce the concerts, starting with these centers that segregate the student; something, which, by the way, are doing in Portugal, where we want to look today. For all this, as I said, we will support the non-law proposal of the BNG. And we just have to ask the councillor, as we did the other day, to exercise, at least, coherence: because they won't support it and they won't be afraid of the mistake, we insist, they withdraw the Equality Plan. At least they would at least at once transparent their true position on equal public position: it's not within their agenda. And we know, classes are just the first stage, because at school we're putting at stake the society of the future, the society we want. We're not going to resign ourselves to the women of the morning to learn their work again. We want everything, we also want in every face equality, a school that flourishes, women and free men, equal, who refill the streets of caravans. That's why we will continue to defend the need to move to school to change the world. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. The caravel, the caravel stayed there. Excuse me, Mrs Chao, the caravel's here. This is very important. [[Mrs. Chao Pérez picks up a caravel from the rostrum that landed during her intervention.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u251	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. The truth is that it seems that here the People's Group must always hear this, as we are absolutely against equality, that we are against women's rights, that we are against a lot of things. But, well, look, we're already used to hearing it. And the truth is, not by repeating it many times will be true, of course. What you have to think about is that there are a lot of women on this bench. I have a daughter. Do you think, for example, I can be against my daughter's rights? Well, look, that minimum of wisdom, that minimum of wisdom, is what you have tried to apply to others when you talk to the absolute freedom you want to talk to here in this Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, I'm not going to give you the pleasure of talking about the Bipartite, I'm not going to give you the pleasure of talking about the Bipartite because the truth, Mrs. Rodil, Mr. Álvarez, what you did or stopped doing the Bipartite with the educational concerts you know perfectly well. So I'm not going to talk to you about anything else. First of all, it must be pointed out that Royal Decree 2377/1985 of 18 December, and the Basic Rules on Educational Concerts are still the reference framework to which private centres must be submitted. I repeat: 1985. And I'll tell them more. You become a top-level problem something that should be understood in democracy in terms of the logic of coexistence and equality. So they are interested in ignoring — or even claiming, as Mrs Chao has just done — the constitutional coverage of concerted education. They ignore Article 27 of the Spanish Constitution, in particular its first point, as regards freedom of teaching. Maybe we need to take a look at this concept, a concept of freedom that seems to be either very clear to you or, in case we're clear, they don't seem to be interested in respect. When we talk about freedom of teaching, we must bear in mind that there are three subjects on which this right rests: on one side, the physical or legal persons who claim to be holders of a teaching centre — for them freedom of teaching consists in the freedom of establishment of centres — and on the other hand, the mothers, parents and students, for whom freedom of teaching consists in the choice of type or model of education; and on the other hand, the teacher, for whom freedom of teaching consists in freedom of chair and in the participation and management of the centre. As you will intuit, freedom of teaching is the sum, the whole, of all these freedoms; certain freedoms which, as such, are freedom of choice and which, therefore, assume a necessary prior element, which is nothing other than the fact that, in order to be able to choose, there must be different things between those to select. And it is precisely for the public authorities to guarantee the full exercise of that freedom. Therefore, the concerted centres are private centres supported by public funds that guarantee the exercise of freedom of teaching, a freedom that sinks its roots in the Constitution and supports itself, in addition, in numerous jurisprudence. The Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order adjusted the drafting of the Order of 14 March 2017, so the rules for the application of the curriculum of educational concerts with private teaching centres for this and subsequent courses are laid down in the applicable legislation. You criticise the extension of the duration of the concerts, but you know perfectly well that this extension, as a result of the amendment introduced by LOMCE, aims, in the case of Galicia, to ensure that educational concerts have the same duration in all the teachings that are held in Galicia. And they also know that, as is customary, approved concerts are reviewed every year to adjust them to the reality of the schools and educational needs of their area of influence in each course. Furthermore, it must also be pointed out that Galicia is not the only autonomous community that establishes the vigil of concerts in six years. Asturias, Balearics, Canary Islands, Castile and Lions, Rioja and Basque Country also did so. In the case of Galicia, concerted education responds to more than 25% of the needs of school courses in Galicia and consumes 11% of the Council's resources; resources that, for the most part, almost 90%, are intended to pay the salaries of teaching staff in a delegated payment scheme and complementary staff in special education units. I think we just reported to them more than enough arguments to justify the vote against their initiative. But I think it is necessary to put an end to a key issue and to distinguish us from the parliamentary groups of this House around this debate. And that difference is the defense of freedom of teaching. This parliamentary group has always defended, defended and will defend freedom of teaching, as defined above, and therefore we will never be able to support initiatives that aim to combat this or other freedoms. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u252	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u253	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Fernández Gil, I know perfectly well that you wouldn't discriminate against your daughter. What I don't understand is why your group and your political party teiman and they want us to pay for all that discrimination, that's what I'm not able to understand, and that they make the money that we pay and we tax the workers and the workers of this country and that they fall into the budgets of the board of Galicia going to fund five schools arranged in this country that separate women from men in the classrooms. That is what we have not just understood, in addition to the substantive debate on whether or not we agree with private education in this country. We do not want to lead to the personal plan ever, ever, the debates, because they are collective issues, are debates that we have to give from the ideological plane. But when a person feels personally interrogated, I think he also says a lot about whether he's standing or not sure what he's defending himself with. I believe that, in addition to your intervention, you confuse the freedom of choice with which we all have to pay that freedom to choose a teaching center. I said it in my intervention. Do you want private education? Great, great, but private education will pay everyone. We don't have to finance it among everyone, and much less when we spend obscene amounts, ingenious amounts, of public money, and then we don't have any control over these schools. And in the lack of control when preference criteria were set for access to these concerts, what from our point of view is a fundamental right, a fundamental right of half the population of our country, such as equality between women and men. Because it's not just that these criteria are removed for the centres that discriminate women and men in the classroom, it's that it's deleted as a preference criterion for the set of concerts that exist today in our country. And by going a little deeper in the interventions of the rest of the political forces as well, we appreciate En Marea's support. With regard to the amendment of the PSOE as a replacement, we will not accept it, because it completely alters the meaning of our initiative. What we are putting on the table is a very clear debate, which is support for public education. In support of the maintenance of concerts, from our point of view, we have to start this process of abolition of concerts with private concert. I think that for two questions basically, and I don't stretch anymore. The first is the defence of public education, and what we cannot bear is impassable witnesses of how public money is transferred directly from the budgets of the Board of Education, in particular from the Council of Education, to continue financing private education, which, yes, will have the right and which will recognize the Spanish Constitution's freedom of choice of educational institutions, but which in no case must be on account of the funds of the workers themselves and workers in this country. We bet in that sense for a public education, for a quality teaching, Greek, of course, secular, of course, and above all not patriarchal. And then wire -- and I'm done -- with part two. It's a fundamental right and such a basic question that we betray here today as the fact that women and men have the right for equality to occupy the same spaces, and those five educational centers veto women or men, equally, simply because of their sex. I just want to appeal to your lordships when they press the button on a question: that was the fundamental principle -- the right to occupy even space, all spaces -- that allowed us women to be educated, that allowed us women to enter the university without men's clothing, as did the Arenal Conception, and, most importantly, start breaking up with stereotypes and gender roles that still survive and on those that still educate our children at these five educational centers. We're very sorry that they keep insisting and that you're the only one who did it was to read out the press release that pulled out your political organization the day after signing the order. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-25-DSPG025.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good afternoon.
