ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. We're going into point one. Debates of the opinion and of the motions for resolutions adopted by the Standing Committee on Non-legislative Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the public sector in Galicia contained in the 2015 Activity Report: General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, 2014.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u2	The statement of the non-legislative Standing Committee of the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports on the public sector in Galicia is contained in the 2015 Activity Report, recommends the approval of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2014 and incorporates 19 motions for resolutions which were adopted in committee and which are now put to the debate and vote. In particular, resolutions Nos. 1 to 15, originally formulated in paragraphs 2 to 16 by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia; resolutions Nos. 16 and 18, transactions in those originally formulated in paragraphs 9 and 13 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia; resolution No. 17, originally formulated in paragraph 11 by the Socialist Parliamentary Group; and resolution No. 19, originally formulated in paragraph 3 by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Group of Galicia. The President of the Commission has the floor for the presentation of the Commission's dictation for relations with the Council of Auditors, Mr Daniel Luis Varela Suanzes-Carpegna.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u3	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. As chairman of the non-legislative Standing Committee on Relations with the Council of Auditors, I have the honour to present to this plenary the Ditame and the motions for resolutions adopted in our Commission on the monitoring reports of the Galician public sector contained in the 2015 Activity Report, as the President himself has just pointed out. The previous reports of the Board of Auditors entered the Chamber on July 15, 2016 and February 16, 2017. After studying the above reports, as well as the motions for resolutions tabled by three of the four parliamentary groups — namely: 16 proposals from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, 14 made by the Galician Socialists' Parliamentary Group and 7 submitted by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group — the Parliament appointed for the purpose of bringing the report and the motions for resolutions to the Commission for relations with the Council of Auditors on which it was delivered at its meeting on 27 April. The draft resolution adopted incorporates the draft resolution originally tabled with paragraph 1 by the People's Parliamentary Group on the adoption of the General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2014, which was adopted unanimously. The remaining motions for resolutions, which have been adopted in committee and which are now being debated and voted on, are the remaining 15 of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, adopted by the majority, originally by paragraphs 2 to 16, as well as four of the other groups, adopted by unanimity. As to: of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, two transactions: the first, on the original proposal with paragraph 9, which now takes number 16, which says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to implement a new general public accounting plan adjusted to the general plan approved by the 2010 State Administration." And a second transaction, with the original proposal number 13 of this parliamentary group, which now leads to number 18, which says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to take the necessary measures to promote the establishment by the autonomous public agencies of effective, efficient and quality management indicators to facilitate their follow-up by the respective control bodies and the Board of Auditors." Even so, this Socialist Parliamentary Group has also unanimously adopted the motion for a resolution originally with paragraph 11, which now appears as motion for a resolution number 17, which states in text: "The Galician Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to incorporate into the Plan of Transparency and good governance the precise information from the European funds of the framework 2014-2020 in terms of achieving objectives and the level of implementation of each operational programme". Finally, a motion for a resolution of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, originally with No. 3, was adopted unanimously, with No. 19, which states in writing: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to continue to take into account the recommendations and evaluations of the Council on budgetary planning in relation to the approximation between budget allocations and real expenditure". The statement and the motions for resolutions adopted by the Standing Committee are not legislating for relations with the Council of Auditors, since they are now in line with the consideration of the plenary for its debate and final vote. Nothing else. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u4	Thank you, Mr Varela. We turn to the parliamentary groups to defend their proposals and set positions on the others for a period of five minutes each group. We started with the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u5	Good morning to all of you. I would like to begin speaking on behalf of my parliamentary group by contextualizing this debate on two issues which we would like to highlight. First of all, the importance of the work of an agency such as the Board of Auditors at a time when the praxis of state parties, particularly the People's Party, has caused a strong discredit around politics in front of our neighbours, in front of the sum and followed by continuous cases of corruption that leap into the public lecture. For those of us who are not afraid of transparency and control, it is therefore essential to value and support the work of bodies such as the Board of Auditors, which contribute to the dignity of this work. Secondly, not because it is expected to be less serious, I also regret the lack of understanding of the People's Party, because of 21 motions for resolutions, which include this parliamentary group and the Socialist Party, which has also put forward proposals, they have dealt a total of 3 and approved 1 literally, not 25 per cent. This could seem to you very much to the one who misses the functioning of this mechanism, this procedure, but really what we are doing with these motions for resolutions is simply to move those issues emanating from the reports of the Board of Auditors that seem most relevant to us and that must be prioritized. It's not that we're asking the group to lead the Government to change their electoral program or much less. It is therefore particularly perverse — we think — that they have no greater capacity to assume in theory — although in practice they leave much more than they wish — than we do. In this sense, I will refer to some of the proposals we have made since the BNG and which have not been accepted. We also propose, as is customary, a resolution that does nothing more than urge the German Government to take up all the Council's recommendations and to explain those which, either for technical matters or for some other reason, do not assume, and therefore do not account. But we already know that the People's Party doesn't always like it and that's why they don't accept it. Secondly, there is another question that I would like to point out, which is that we have included proposals relating to everything that has to do with Igape. Finally, a review report by the Board of Auditors brings to light questions relating to this institute and which reveal that the suspicions of the opposition and the diagnoses we have made were not so unbiased, that the organisational structure is absolutely invalid and that it is unable to adapt to the weight of new aid modalities. That is why the resolution put forward by the People's Party seems to us to be insufficient. We understand that we are at a time of economic crisis in which it is essential to assess and monitor up to the last cent of the public era, and therefore we feel that what is collected as far as Igape is concerned is insufficient. In this sense, another central issue that we propose goes around everything that has to do with reviewing the procedures for aid and subsidies of the Government of Greece, in which the People's Party does not undertake to develop issues that we believe are simply complying with the law, such as the one referred to in the strategic plans or the public register of subsidies, which is not being complied with. In this sense, we also understand that, in addition to increasing the control and evaluation of the achievement of the objectives set out in this field, it is time to introduce stricter criteria and that there are no repeated issues such as those announced by the Board of Auditors such as that there are bases that allow up to 100% of subcontracting. Another important point that I would like to stress, before I waste my time, is the whole point that one of the priorities we believe we have in this political context is to prioritize the fight against political corruption. We therefore insist once again that the Board of Auditors should be provided with greater funding to carry out its new functions after the reform of the law with greater speed and also to shorten that time gap between reports. Let's remember that today we will vote for the 2014 General Account, those dates and the time at which we move. We understand that it is necessary for the People's Party to make a leap, that it ceases to be ashamed of corruption in the press releases, and that it invests more in preventing it. Finally, for a short time, I shall refer to the proposal which deals with the absolute majority of the People's Party and which is aimed at correcting the poor budgeting and abuse of the use of the Contingency Fund and the unforeseen expenses, because it is quite terrible that in weeks like this, in which we have to listen to the Government of Greece that there is no way to give help to our wine growers and to the agribusiness sector damaged by the frosts of two weeks ago, then we have to see budgetary changes for functions as sharp as the lighting of Gaiás. We understand that the proposal incorporated in this respect is positive, but we will of course be vigilant in whether or not it is met. Because in the end, what also reveals the general trend in the accounts of the Board of Auditors and the 2014 General Account itself is that many of the deficiencies that are successively highlighted continue to be uncorrected. That's why we ask the Greek Government for less words and more facts. And I end by saying that in this sense we will abstain from the particular proposals of the People's Party, we will vote favourably for the Socialist Party's proposals and, finally, we will vote favourably for the Commission's dictates, for responsibility, for understanding that many of the issues that are incorporated, regardless of whether they are insufficient for us some of them and little ambitious, because ultimately, for responsibility, for the work of the Council of Auditors and also for the work of this own Greek Parliament, we proceed to vote favourably, although I already say that we will be vigilant so that the attitude of the German Government corresponds to more facts and less words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to everyone and to all Members and to all Members. First of all, the Socialist Party wants to express our regret and reject why, despite the lack of official confirmation, it seems to be a clear case of violence that would affect a minor in this case. Already entering the debate on what we are dealing with, the Board of Auditors is a statutory body which was created by law in 1985, which was amended in 2015. The amendment of this law acted with a clear purpose, which was to strengthen the powers of the external control body of the Autonomous Community and more its independence and its own efficiency, as well as to strengthen the capacity for cooperation with other institutions. This law provides, in its first article, that the Council of Auditors, as an external audit body of the accounts of economic and financial management and accounts, shall play its role in implementing the revenue and expenditure programmes of the public sector of the Autonomous Community and shall advise the Parliament of Galicia in economic and financial matters. In point 2 of the resolution, it is directly dependent on the Galician Parliament and its functions in full independence and submission to the legal system. And finally, in point 3 adds that, to ensure a proper management of public finances, it assumes the competence to prevent corruption. But we socialists understand that, without transparency and without collaboration, the powers of the Board of Auditors cannot be exercised properly, and both the lack of transparency and the lack of collaboration on the part of the Council of Auditors are made manifest by the Council of Auditors in all its monitoring reports. Once again, we must remind the Government of the People's Party at the Galician Summit that it is not enough to pass laws, it is not enough to adapt them to the needs of the moment. The adoption of the law is just the first step. It's not enough to pass a law of transparency and good governance or a law that reinforces the role of the Board of Auditors. The Galician Union's PP must change its way of ruling. You have to actually materialize what you approve of in the laws. The PP has an obligation to apply the principle of transparency to all management of the Galician Union, as well as to all management of its instrumental organs. The Galician Council has an obligation to cooperate with the Board of Auditors. The Socialists have already made a statement in the presence of the chief adviser in committee that the budget devoted to this organ is scarce. More budget means more personal and means less time between filing accounts and drawing up control reports. Therefore, greater effectiveness of the conclusions, as well as of the recommendations. And although the senior advisor has told us that the restructuring of troops has been solved this year, the socialists hope that this is the case and that reports will be updated this year and, above all, time is running out. Having already entered the draft resolutions adopted, we must say that the Socialists' Parliamentary Group presents 14 recommendations to the Council of Auditors and 14 motions for resolutions to this Parliament. The Socialist Group's motions for resolutions, based on the reports of the Board of Auditors, are looking for two fundamental themes. The first is to apply the principle of transparency to all management of the Autonomous Community as well as its instrumental entities. The Board of Auditors expresses, on the one hand, the incorrect accounting charge, which prevents one from knowing a faithful image of the assets, results and settlement of the budget. Real investments in non-material expenditure are not clearly differentiated, using this heading for advertising and advertising costs. Expenditure will be shifted to subsequent years. In the financial year 2014, the accounting year was closed on September 15, which prevents you from having a faithful picture of the financial situation of the Galician Union. The use of the 621 programme, "unpredicted and unclassified functions", is used as a bridge programme to carry out credit transfers, violating the limits laid down by the legislation preventing direct transfers between the affected applications. There is a lack of implementation in the accounting system, financial accounting; therefore, they do not comply with the 2010 Public Accounting Plan. The Contingency Fund does not have a regulatory regulation, which, far from being used for unforeseen expenses, is a tool for covering expenses that are the object of a poor budgeting. There is no accounting registry subsystem for funded projects, for interterritorial clearing funds. There is a lack of a plan for the viability of public works foundations. There is a lack of precise information from the European funds on objectives and the level of implementation of each operational programme. Public agencies do not have the necessary management indicators and there is a lack of verification of the level of care quality of the network of public care centres for older people. We're also manifesting the lack of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u9	...in collaboration with the Galician Council of Auditors, mainly by the General Intervention of the Autonomous Community, a documentation that is absolutely necessary to be able to correctly interpret the financial situation of the Administration. Avoiding control limits is a limitation that becomes manifest year after year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u11	I'm done, Mr. President. They don't send all the documentation, there's lack of clarity, there's little explanatory value of memory, and instrumental entities don't present their accounts or present it out of time, some of them as significant as Galician Waters. In conclusion, they pass a law for the constitution of the Board of Auditors, they give it powers, they grant it independence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u13	...have budgeted, but they do not collaborate to make it clear and without limitation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u14	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u15	Good morning. At the commission a week ago, we had an interesting debate about systemic corruption affecting the People's Party, which I am not going to repeat today because it's still too early for my microphone to be cut off. We were also accused of disregarding the institutions for only submitting proposals for the 2017 Business Council Work Plan and not giving motions for resolutions on the 2015 Activity Memory. We were at no cost to submit motions for resolutions that are repeated year after year and that the Council of Galicia has no responsibility year after year, but we do not want to legitimize this theatre with false institutional respect. Our deliberate decision not to make recommendations is based on very clear and concrete issues, which I shall begin to report. They begin to implement the recommendations that have been reiterated in recent years and respect the work of the Board of Auditors. The proposals to the workplan, if the commission passes, are answered by the Board of Auditors by their work. On the other hand, the motions for resolutions are never respected, although they are motions for resolutions based on the Council's own recommendations. I'm going to report several of the cases in my time. In the financial year 2004 — the Council of Auditors — the General Account Memory presents limited information on consolidated states, both qualitatively and in the number of entities concerned. Go through the reports and see that it repeats year after year. There are no aggregate states of execution that include public corporate entities, companies, foundations, consortia, which prevents an overall vision of the administration's economic activity and increases the fragmentation of financial information. It repeats itself year after year, and this is not casual, it is deliberate, not to know well the financial information of the Public Service and to camouflage certain movements. From a qualitative point of view, the information is still limited — between quotes — the budgetary settlement at the level of the chapter, a study of budgetary result and remaining treasury. Two. Just as in previous exercises — even between quotes — the jobs were affected by the following limitations: there is no information on the age of the outstanding receivables, which limits the calculation of the collection rights, etc., etc. General Intervention has not provided information on the accumulated financial deviations, which affects the representativeness of the treasury remnants; it's not anything. As is customary — between quotes, too — liquidation does not include adjustments to initial income forecasts. Without ignoring the difficulties that may arise in some form of resources, the inclusion of those which affect finalist or non-finalist transfers from other administrations would provide further information on the source of funding for budgetary changes in the state of expenditure. In the same line of previous years — between quotes too — certain limitations which condition the scope of the work carried out by the Board of Auditors persist — between quotes, too. The administration continues to make use — between quotes too — of the extension of appropriations for the same concepts of expenditure as in previous years, without meeting the unforeseeable condition; it repeats itself year after year. Seven. There is still an excessive use of the use of the 621 programme of unforeseen events, as I was previously mentioned in the use of the word, etc., etc. "Keep finding out," "as usual," "in the same line as previous years", "reiterately", "up to twenty-five times one repeats expressions which mean that the Board of Auditors, year after year, violates the recommendations of the Board of Auditors. But it's more. In his magnanimity, the People's Party approves a proposal for a resolution by the BNG and another by the Socialist Party of Galicia. The Socialist Party dares to request that the General Accounting Plan be adapted to the year 2010. That's an explicit recommendation from the Board of Auditors. You wouldn't have to make a motion for a resolution if you did that. And you're going to assume here that you accept the Galician Socialist Party to transfer a resolution, a recommendation from the Board of Auditors. Great generosity from the People's Party. The important thing is to comply with the first resolution. The first resolution, which is already a lie, of the People's Party says: continue, continue — I believe it is — following the recommendations of the Board of Auditors. They do not comply with the recommendations of the Board of Auditors on transcendental and structural matters of the General Account. Or, for example, to which the People's Party of Galicia approves, which calls for a new regulatory framework for the assets of the Galician Economic Promotion Institute, the recommendation of the Board of Auditors in its report 2011-2013. These are the recommendations of the Board of Auditors, of course, that they come to demonstrate, as mentioned here, the very poor work of the Igape when these advances are granted and the high degree of morbidity, which is not only due to the crisis situation, but to a poor job, because Junta has not given sufficient resources to change the type of aid that has occurred in recent years; a very important deficiency. So all these issues that the People's Party has systematically failed are a lack of respect for the People's Party to the Council of Auditors institution, even though then, in ways, we're all very elegant. Or, finally — I don't have any more time — debt. Compañero Manolo Lago asks for information about debt and it's transparent information, so that we know it and then we can discuss it. It says the Board of Auditors: given the importance that autonomous indebtedness has achieved in recent years in terms of the future sustainability of public accounts, due to its remarkable increase and complexity of its management and financial administration and the importance of providing comprehensive and comprehensive training on the evolution, structure and financial management of the recommended indebtedness of the Autonomous Community, it is recommended that the Self-Government make an effort to supply as wide an information as possible in relation to the different aspects of it in the memory of the general indebtedness account. That's what we asked for. Or as we ask in non-law propositions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u17	...incorporating exactly the recommendations of the Board of Auditors for the execution of the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, which year after year is the worst of all autonomous communities, and you voted against. They are voting against the recommendations of the Board of Auditors. A lack of total respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u18	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very good morning to all and all. We must point out that we are here today, essentially, to adopt the General Account of the Autonomous Community, which reasonably reflects the economic and financial activity in the financial year 2014, as stated by the Council of Auditors, and to adopt the motions for resolutions to the control reports agreed in the motion between the groups which have presented themselves to the presentation and which have tabled motions for resolutions, all except in Marea. This group, before the Chief Counsel of the Board of Auditors itself, qualified these reports of very useful to the opposition. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, they are very useful to all. First, for Junta, which is already incorporating many of the incorporations collected in these reports every year to continue to improve the management of public funds year by year. And so it is also recognised by the Board of Auditors itself, which also monitors whether the recommendations of previous reports are carried out. And then also for parliamentary groups, because it allows us to make motions for resolutions that are also better for the future. And that's what we did the rest of the groups: we present recommendations to the workplan as well, but also the motions for resolutions. The People's Group has chosen to respect the programming of the Board of Auditors by submitting only three recommendations, and to take good note of its magnificent reports, and to submit many more proposals to correct these cases, in particular, 15. As for the seven BNG, we rejected one, because the major advisor himself did not consider it necessary at the moment, which was to increase the resources. Let's trade in another one to avoid budgeting down the current expenses. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that in the course of the next budgets we will not be asked to eliminate this budget line. And we agreed to another five, since our group also makes proposals, but ours is much closer to the recommendations of the Board of Auditors, especially as regards fairs, Igape, grants. And we also ask that the Board of Auditors recommendations be followed. And on Sergas, health care, we have more proposals than you do, such as strengthening continuous financial control — including health care operators — to introduce cost accounting, that the indicators of the objectives of the health expenditure programmes are linked to the strategic plan — to better measure its compliance —, to differentiate in budgets the departure of hospital pharmacy and that of the pharmaceutical expenditure dispensed in the pharmacy offices. But we also put forward other proposals on other reports which the opposition did not take into account at all, such as for the gaga de Sangue e Tecidos Agency to reduce the temporality of human resources, or on European funds, to improve the management, follow-up and control systems, as well as to promote the coordination recommended by the Board of Auditors. On the payment plan to suppliers, we do not ask, as the Board of Auditors requests, to grant grants to municipalities that do not meet these payment deadlines, but we do consider the possibility of taking this indicator into account in order to give priority to the beneficiaries. We also propose to make all the means and efficiency of the Galician Tax Agency available to Members. With regard to the proposals of the Socialist Group, we agree to promote the new General Public Accounting Plan, which the public agencies set out effective, efficient and quality management indicators that facilitate follow-up by control and control bodies. We regret that they do not accept the transaction to improve the quality of accounting information for projects funded by interterritorial compensation funds, which is what the Board of Auditors needs. We accept the only proposal from all — as it could not be otherwise — to add more information to the Transparency Portal. But we cannot agree to repudiating the lack of cooperation between the Board of Auditors, because simply, ladies and gentlemen, it is false. And it has also been said by the senior adviser himself when he referred to the Joint Committee that he has been working for more than a year to facilitate control. We can't agree with the lack of accountability of the entities; it is surprising that this accuses us of the same group that voted against incorporating them into the budgets and that while they governed them they kept them hidden. We also do not agree that the Board of Auditors will play the role of inspecting social services or that the beneficiaries of the aid collected in the capital chapter receive them without justifying the investment. With regard to the Continent Fund, it has already been sufficiently explained and to facilitate compliance with the deficit. And with regard to the shifted expenditure, what the Board of Auditors says is that in the year 2014 it continues to decrease significantly in the expenditure shifted to the next exercise, which comes to the floor of the opposition's speech that we met the deficit because we shifted the expenditure. On the rest of the issues, as you have already acknowledged in Marea, which have taken advantage of these reports to renew your initiatives, we are sure to be able to discuss them throughout this year. And by the end, Mr. President, this debate has talked about corruption, a scourge that affects all parties that have the responsibility to rule. We all condemn corruption, everyone, and we all want to fight it. And we are working on this, listening to the supervisory body, analysing its reports and presenting motions for resolutions, and adopting laws both in the General Courts and in this Parliament: that of the Council of Auditors, to strengthen its independence and assign these functions to it for the prevention of corruption; that of financing political parties or the Transparency Act, among others, that you, gentlemen of En Marea, have systematically voted against. And what does this group do? So you'd rather intervene in planning, just intervene in what the Board of Auditors has to do, but don't analyze reports, don't submit proposals, don't take part in presentations. In short, they opt for show policy, not work, riding trouble and riding by bus to try to hide that they don't perform their function. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Romero Fernández. We therefore vote for the dictatorship and for the motions for resolutions. Let us vote first. It recommends approval of the Account General of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the financial year 2014. Let us vote first. We vote. Vote of the Standing Committee on Non-legislative Relations with the Council of Auditors on the monitoring reports of the Galician public sector contained in the 2015 Activity Report: General Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, 2014. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 60; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u21	We are now voting on the motions for resolutions adopted by the Commission. And in view of what the debate has been like, perhaps it is — if the groups agree — that we should make a first group in which the proposals are going from 1 to 15 and a second group in which the proposals are going 16, 17, 18 and 19. Do the groups agree with this? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me, do you agree with the groups I have just read about? which is: first proposal, a group of proposals from 1 to 15; second, proposals 16, 17, 18 and 19. Do you agree? Yeah? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm proposing something to make an easier vote. Do we agree? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we are voting first of all on the proposals from 1 to 15. We vote. They're ours. From 1 to 15. [[Murmurs.]] Ours. [[Laughter]] I said it at first. Let's read it again. If they want, let's read it again. [[Murmurs.]] Vote on motions for resolutions Nos. 1 to 15 of the Standing Committee on Non-legislative Relations with the Council of Auditors in relation to the monitoring reports of the public sector in Galicia contained in the 2015 Activity Report: Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, 2014. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; votes against, 14; abstentions, 5. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u22	And the second block includes the proposals 16,17, 18 and 19. We vote. Vote on motions for resolutions Nos 16 to 19 of the Standing Committee on Non-legislative Relations with the Council of Auditors in relation to the monitoring reports of the Galician public sector contained in the 2015 Report on Activities. Account of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, 2014. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u23	Let's move on to the next point. Debate taken into account by the G.P. in Marea, to refer to the Congress of Deputies, amending Law 52/2007, of 26 December, so that rights are recognized and extended and measures are laid down in favour of those who have suffered persecution and violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u24	To present the bill, Mr. Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u25	Good morning again. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Galician Parliament can do an act of justice or give it a new extension to the history of an infamy. On 18 July 2016, almost a year ago, this House approved an institutional declaration that it committed itself to continuing actions aimed at recovering and deigning the memory of the victims of the repression exercised in the Civil War and during franchise. It was a declaration of justice and historical memory. Ten months have passed and a number of initiatives have been discussed in Parliament to take account of this democratic commitment. However, the People's Group has prevented any initiative to implement this act of justice and memory, which is also a major claim in Galician society. Ten months of lack of action, dislocation and lack of commitment, ten months of extension to prolong the history of an infamy, an infamy that has lasted for many decades, too many decades. They beat their fears; they sum up, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies of the People's Party, to guarantee an act of justice and restoration of democratic memory. It's very sad that we have to debate an initiative to dignify the memory of the victims of fascism in 2017. Galicia and the Spanish state are still an exception in Europe. In Italy, Germany, Portugal, the condemnation of the abuses and violence of fascist dictatorships is an act of democratic normality. The surrender of the palace of Meirás to dictator Franco in 1938, in the middle of Civil War, was a policeman organized by authorities and members meanings of the Frankish band, which in many cases forced neighbors and neighbors to come up with money and lands for the dictator to enjoy the property free of charge. A provincial council for Peace of the Caudillo was set up to give Franco and his family a holiday residence. Voluntary contribution bonds were issued and discounts were made on the payrolls of the Coruña and Deputy Council officials to collect 2 million pesetas of the time to effect the purchase. In addition, they forced all the municipalities in the province to reach a percentage of the tax collection of the contribution, a percentage which in 1938 accounted for 1,200,000 pesetas. The robbery continued and the extension of the palace was extended to ten hectares through expropriations without any legal guarantee and using all kinds of threats and coercion to the owners' families. On the other hand, our heritage has also been damaged. One part was destroyed, as is the case with Emilia Pardo Bazán's personal library, since some of these books were burned, another part removed from their place of origin, from all parts of the country, for use and enjoyment of the Franco family. The bill we defend seeks to include in Law 52/2007, the Law of the Historical Memory of the State, a new article which recognizes and extends rights and establishes measures for those who have suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship. The initiative underscores the original illegality of property that holds the Franco family over the palace of Meirás. It also determines that, within a maximum of six months, the set of peace is returned to the public sector, with due compensation to persons and families who are victims of the police. It also aims to establish a consortium, representing the state, the board, the provincial deputation and the council of Sada, which manages it. Finally, we point out that space must have public uses in the future, with a particular focus on the recovery of historical memory. The Commission for the Recovery of Historical Memory supports this proposal by En Marea, as it had done a month ago with the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block to develop a Welsh law of historical memory. That possibility has been tarnished by the vote against the People's Party. I think today they must be amended. The free return of the palace of Meiraes, the democratic recovery of this palace is an act of justice. It's about leaving an act of expropriation and forced expropriation of the hands of the Frankish dictatorship without effect. It's about expropriating the expropriators of frankism. It's about restoring dignity and property to the people. Thanks to the pulse carried over all these years by organized civil society, and especially by the Commission for the Recovery of Historical Memory; also thanks to the citizen pulse, accompanied only by some political forces, we have been making progress. In 2008 the palace was declared well of cultural interest, despite the manifest opposition of the heirs of Francisco Franco. From that date they have the obligation to open the palace for four days a month to have free access to citizenship. The dictator's family opposed this opening on numerous occasions, but Justice has rejected its arguments. On March 25, 2011, the doors of the immovable emblematic were opened for the first time to the public and since then there have been numerous breaches and pitfalls that Franco's heirs have set to allow free access to citizenship. And this is a humiliation for any Democrat, whether left or right, whether it's party, or should be. Thanks to the people who fought for many years to recover memory, we know this infamous story, a black story of extortion, abuse, violence and coercion. It was not a gift from the people, it was a violent policeman, because there was no possibility that people would deny themselves, there was no margin to oppose themselves; it commanded force and not reason, it was a brutal dictatorship, not a democracy; it was a spoil for the winners, not a grateful prayer. The heirs of the estate, the heirs of fascism, today weaving to make the palace of Meirás their bunker, the bunker of Meirás as a witness to their impunity, the bunker of Meirás as a monument to the impunity of their proud abuses. Ladies and gentlemen, the peace of Meirades must be restored to dignity, the peace of Meirades must be placed at the service of the people of Greece, as a space of memory, of democratic memory and of democratic values. The palace of Meirás must be an example of democratic restitution of the rights vested by franchiseism, it must be a space of democratic memory in the face of the devastation of barbarism. Today, this Parliament, the German Parliament, has a new opportunity to express its position on franchise, in favour of the demand for justice and the reparation of the victims of repression, for the restoration of police goods to the people. They expect from us an act of justice and democratic reparation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are in your hand to help us correct this black page of Galician history, to put an end to the painful infamy of Meiraes' palace. They abide by the democratic commitment of this House, they do not compromise their dignity by acting as accomplices to a brutal policeman. Do not sanctify the impunity of the expropriators of the dictatorship. You choose the victim's side. They recognize their commitment to the democratic memory and vote affirmatively for democracy today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u26	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. "Unvelished, in the morning early / down by a path./ In the chambers where crime is laid / wave flags dripping aniline. - There's an air of dead pigeons. - I'm scared again. - Sir, this is the man. - All the doors are closed. - You can change your smile with no one." Pimentel. There are facts, faces and wounds that time will not be able to erase. Only silence and ignorance can make years go by. Only collective fear, terror sown by that and transmitted, minute by minute, forty-fifty, sixty-seventy, eighty-eight years, only that fear could bring about silence. Because fear brought social paralysis, fear succeeded in justifying everything, denying the existence of the crime, blaming innocents, executioners, and honest citizens for bloody murderers. The fear of conveying the memory of 36 and of frankism is born of the pain caused, crying in silence, swallowed up in the loneliness of the night. Silence is an obligation to deny pain, to trump the collective memory of a people who had in oral transmission their existence as such. It was so much shed blood, it was such the shrieks of the gunmen, it was so devastating to those who since their moral criticism — love — were feeding the murders and abuse, it was so intense the terror, it was so clear that genocide in Galicia was so clear that in the obliged oblivion our people kept the memory of this silence. There's just names, there's just facts, there's just places, there's just an immense collective pain that, when it reappears, arouses fearful glances on one side and on the other. We always talk about the walks, the beatings, the tortures, the riots, the cracks that we should have opened for them to return to their homes, the tributes due to the double-aggressed women, indispensable in the anti-fascist struggle. Some of us have been walking for years to put stones that mark the names of the victims and the places of horrors — and they know it in the House — with the frontal or horde opposition of the others, of the ideological heirs of frankism. We haven't been able to pass the chapter, because in 78 unilaterally, the condition set by fascists, the military with the sword on high and the gun yellowed, was the forgetfulness. And we grew up with silence until it had been too long. Because to pass the chapter, it was necessary to let the survivors know, from one side and another, that what we were reborn was democracy truncated by the coupists on the right, of the most ravine, classist and authoritarian right, who had dressed in fascism and named a new god: Francisco Franco, the murderer. They didn't have our student, we had the cold and naked story, we missed the warm and passionate word sometimes and broke by the other willows. And here we're stopped that the bloody dictator's family owns, with the proper brewery and with the consent of the Council of Galicia and the Central Government, the madhouse. This Member of the BNG does not speak to them about the failure of four days' monthly openings, visits, because he is a BIC space. What's up! This palace of Meiraes represents for the Greeks the improper submission, the silence kept, the mausoleum of the cunettes, the theft and impotence of the population, of the entire population, overcome by systematic terrorism made order. It was achieved in this way, stolen, polished, and there is only one way out for decency, both political and social and collective: to return the theft and repair the damage in the interests of justice and the need to take steps in democratic consolidation. We'll never have democracy if we don't repair the wounds, and they don't stretch in silence. Forgiveness needs the knowledge of the facts and the repair of the damage. The facts there are, in the same story of a cost of arms and barbarism—Long live death!—which was offered to a dictator, a land assignment in front of the notary the tip of a gun, the purchase and gift of a heritage asset suffering the pain of the people. In our hands it's repairing the damage. Will we be who or will we once again win the fear made sorry for bad payers? The palace of Meiraes must return to public domain, it is not a BIC space owned by a family that misses the visits, it is the plunder of a criminal to the world's light and decency. You must return to public property as an example that time always ends up putting things in their place. Or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u28	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Of course, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will approve the adoption of this bill. It will do so because we sincerely consider that the property and enjoyment of the palace of Meiraes by the family of Franco, the dictator, is illegitimate, and it is fair that it ends and ends. In addition, we consider that the dictator Franco's family remains the owner and enjoy the palace, eighty years after his taking illegitimate possession and forty-two years after Franco's death, it is a clear historical anomaly that must end. Of course, there is no doubt today that the transfer to Franco from the palace of Meirás, a palace that was built on earlier ruins by Mrs. Emilia Pardo Bazán, was the result of a policy. There is no doubt that it was a group of the high-ranking corrupt bourgeoisie, probably trying to get this republican history of the city itself to be forgiven, to which he directed the purchase to the heirs of Mrs. Emilia of the palace, that bourgeoisie that saw an easy way to achieve political and economic advantages by having around the dictator, as it was. Recent historical research, in addition, shows that the elite-led spolium goes far beyond the purchase and repair of the palace at that time in 1938, which was a macrospolium that lasted decades, because Meirás is really the symbol, the clear symbol of the corruption of the Frankish regime. Today it is also easily scientifically demonstrable, with historical documents, that this purchase of the palace was the result of a well-planned operation between the elites and the dictator, who got the money to buy it through coercion and threats about a impoverished population, and where the dead -- we remember that this happens in 1938 -- and the retaliations by the Frankists were already counting on hundreds; then, a impoverished population and a gripping population of terror. The new corrupt and Franco elites decided that the funds to buy were won by popular subscription, and in the municipalities they were formed — and this is demonstrated by historical documentation — joints and commissions with phalanxists and people who adhered to the regime meant in each council that went home demanding a contribution and being annotated with names and names on a list that was then sent to the civil governor. You'll understand that this volunteer thing didn't have anything. But at the same time, as has already been said here, there have also been days off pay for employees working in the Deputies and in the Council of the Crown, even from private companies. Such was the amount of resources derived from Meirás that a 1939 military report was textually stated — and in Spanish — or the following: The figure spent in the court is of such magnitude that, if known, it would cause astonishment, since it responds to 10% of the province's contribution, apart from important donations provided by agencies, entities and the population. And besides, it is also fully documented the expropriation of the beautiful land with the farm of Meirás; an expropriation and buying fraudulent by those who have not received anything. And to all of this we have to add still a policeman, another policeman, who is the fact about the archive and the library of Mrs. Emilia Pardo Bazán. The Francos, as documented, did not allow Emilia's estate to be collected by her heirs. There stood a large library, besides manuscripts, papers, letters, a wide archive; a wide archive that today, forty-two years after the dictator's death, we don't know, because the Franco never allowed to invent or catalog this legacy. We know -- and so the last biography of Emilia's wife shows -- that Carmen Polo ordered to burn a lot of paper from the archive in 1938, before he received the palace, one of his multiple visits to run the works. And we also know that in that strange 1978 fire, a large number of books in the library were affected. But we also know that books and papers remain inside Emilia's palace. I mean, another new cop to the Greek people. And besides, I would dare say that returning Meiras' palace to public property would have a very important therapeutic effect on our society, a therapeutic effect that I think it needs sincerely, that it needs it psychologically and socially. Because it's not normal for an important part of our citizenship to consider it normal for Franco's daughter and then her granddaughter every year to portray herself in the courtroom in the magazine and appear on the cover of the magazine Hello and nobody says anything. This is an insult, a clear insult to our people. [[Applause]] Already — the truth — is the greatest proof of sovereignty and a new insult that I think we can't stand anymore. Besides, she and that family do what she does is teach that house, teach, in the last report — covering, of course, her grandfather's office, the office of a dictator who is responsible for thousands, thousands and thousands of dead and dead and reprisaled and reprisaled in this country. We cannot continue to consent to this situation. The only thing we socialists say is that this step from the property of Meirás should not happen to public property through paying, through a payment, to pay back to the Franco family, because it would again be a policeman. The only way that this society, that the Greeks, could at any given time get closer, not to justice, but to a minimal possibility of justice, was that BIC's statement of the palace made by the coalition government of the Socialist Party and the BNG. That BIC statement, as we all know, implies the obligation of the owners to open the good to the public for a certain number of days. I have to say with regret - I believe that I say it with regret - that, of course, the People's Party since all this procedure, since the year 2009, has been essentially covering the demands and covering the wishes of the Franco family and not covering the rights of citizenship, and I say so because from the very first moment — no, but yes from the very first moment — the Junta de Galicia has made a series of agreements with the Franco family, so that all the Greeks - a new policeman - we paid for the private security of all those days of visit, we paid the private security of the court - of course, to the same company that had the security all year - and we paid the guides, we also paid the company that had the guides to visit. And again another cop and another insult. That account that the guides were making, that they were doing at that time - this Friday we will have a group of parliamentarians opportunity to see if they continue to do so - was a story written by Franco. A new insult. In this account it turns out that in the palace of Meirás only lived Emilia Pardo Bazán. A new insult to the Greeks and, of course, a new insult to Emilia's wife. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u31	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. We are faced with the debate of taking into consideration a proposal for a bill by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, to refer to the Congress of Deputies, amendment of Law 52/2007 of 26 December, so that rights are recognized and extended and measures are established for those who have suffered persecution and violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship; a legislative text commonly known as the Law of Historical Memory. The present bill, as reported by the proposed group, consists of a single article that proposes the addition of an additional ninth provision to the original legislative text and a last disposition with the object of conquering the transfer of the property of the palace of Meiras to the Council of Galicia; a literal statement that gathers from its explanatory statement and that you yourself correct, correct or simply deny in point 3 of your proposal for additional provision, as we shall see later. This additional ninth provision that In Marea intends to add to the Historical Memory Law consists of three points which, to my modest understanding, deserve an individualized analysis and, if permitted, "deconstructive", understanding the term in the sense that the French philosopher Jacques Derrida granted in his day, according to which the deconstruction consists, by saying a schematic model, in the breakdown of a whole in small pieces for a greater and better understanding of the parts that integrate the set. At the first point of this additional ninth provision there is a notable inaccuracy in drafting the object of the bill, which is a frontal collision with the constitutional delimitation of article 33, which seeks to provide legal certainty to any limitation of the right of property carried out by public authorities. You talk about starting within six months the actions necessary for the return of the peace of Meirás to the public sector, now well, they say nothing in particular about whether what they want is a procedure of forced expropriation. In addition, if so, they leave an absolute and, in my opinion, intentional indefinition as much as the expropriating subject as the aspects of the expropriation procedure, which allows us to consider serious doubts regarding the guarantee of the right of property provided for in the European Convention on Human Rights of Rome of 1950. In the case of point 2 of this additional ninth provision, it can be said that it is in a way that is inconsistent with the principle of legality the definition of "expropriating administration". You speak of the creation of a quadripartite commission composed of representation of the State, Junta de Galicia, Deputación Provinciale and Concello de Sada, for the coordinated and inter-administrative handling of this additional provision. But they forget that a construct of these characteristics eliminates the legal certainty of the expropriatory procedure, since, according to current legislation, the expropriatory procedure must be clearly attributed to a given administration. Finally, and to close the deconstructive process of what I was talking about at the beginning of my intervention, we need to analyze the third point of the additional provision they propose. In this case, we find ourselves in the face of an unpublished formula in law to regulate the fate of the estate of the palace and the estates of Meirás. As you know, property regulation is provided for in the Law on the Heritage of Public Administrations of the year 2003, which sets out the procedures for mutating and adscribing its assets, so that the creation of a consortium of certain public administrations, which are not only specific to this third point, seems to be a manifestation of the surprising drafting of a bill that could lead to numerous legal conflicts which, by affecting a fundamental right, such as the right to property, might become proceedings not only before the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, but also before the European Court of Human Rights. Given the deconstructive analysis we have just made of your proposal, and adding to the fact that the very scope of this debate should be the Congress of Deputies - a chamber in which you, by the way, have representation - it seems absolutely justified a position contrary to the consideration of this bill, and it must be pointed out that we do not judge franchiseism - that our group rejected franchise whenever it had occasion, and it will continue to do so - but we judge the vigency and application of the rule of law. Now, at this point, it seems to me that it was enough to start a series of reflections in a loud voice on the debate about the peace of Meirás in particular and the historical memory in general. It is well known for the entire hemicycle, and so it was reflected in previous interventions, that the palace of Meirás was declared well of cultural interest with the category of historical site through Decree 299/2008 of 30 December. A decree that, on the eve of Law 8/1995, of 30 October, of Galician cultural heritage, which was present at that time, declared this space as BIC based on reports issued as part of the instructional proceedings of the file by the Royal Galaga Academy of Fine Arts Our Lady of the Rosary, the Council of Culture Galician and the University of Santiago de Compostela. In the previous reports issued for the purpose of valuing the opportunity to proceed to the declaration as well of cultural interest of Meirás towers, the past cultural bodies did not consider their architectural or artistic values so decisive, but their importance as a place of memory, reflecting a bourgeois past, cosmopolitan, noble and political, undoubtedly associated with two historical figures of great fame — and I quote the decree –: the eminent Greek writer Emilia Pardo Bazán, one of the most prominent Spanish representatives of literary naturalism, and the figure of Francisco Franco, head of the Spanish state for forty years. This is how the decree is quoted. Well, since the publication of this decree in the Official Journal of Galicia in January 2009 until the opening of the palace to the public, as marked by the binding heritage legislation, passed something more than two years, a period in which the Galician Union, already ruled by the People's Party, has strongly defended the fulfilment of the legality and the opening of the palace to the public who wanted to visit it, according to which the court should open to the public for at least four days a month. But the defence of public interest carried out by the German Government did not remain here, but, as you also know, in last year 2016 the Government of the United States launched an information file to settle whether the owners of the palace were in breach of the regulations in respect of the regime of visits; a file that follows its processing and which shows the irrefutable commitment of the Greek Government to compliance with the legality and the defence of Galicia's general interests. They therefore know perfectly well that they are starting from a premise of false beginning, since they intend to attribute to us the defence of the interests of the owners, when the facts clearly show that this is not so and that the Greek Government has acted, acts and will always act in defense of Galicia's general interests. In this particular case from the People's Group, we will always ensure the scrupulously compliance with the legislation, ensuring the possibility that anyone who wishes to visit the peace of Meirás as implied by the BIC declaration that has this space. And they also know, or should know, that in a rule of law laws apply to all equally, regardless of the opinion we may have of the specific people that in each case affect. This is the fundamental difference between the legal security of democracies and the arbitraryness of other political regimes. In order to finish, as I pointed out earlier, I would also like to reflect aloud on some suggestions that sometimes, from my point of view, contaminate the debate on historical memory and in many cases prevent this debate from dealing with the degree of calm and objectivity that this issue requires, and that, in addition to sometimes causing the loss of perspective on the spirit of reconciliation and harmony and regarding pluralism and the peaceful defence of all the ideas that led the Transition and that allowed us to provide us with a Constitution, the 1978 Constitution, which juridically translated that desire for the reunion of Spaniards, articulating a social and democratic state of right, with a clear integrative vocation, as marked by the very exposition of motives of the Law of Historical Memory. To make this final reflection, I would like to return to the figure of French philosopher Jacques Derrida, whom I did not accidentally quote at the beginning of my intervention, since for me it makes an interesting analysis in his work Politics of the friendship of friend-enemy dialectics, present in the political theory of German philosopher Carl Schmittt, which can allow us to understand the attitude of certain political forces of the parliamentary left in this debate. The friendly-enemy approach posed by Schmitt as an expression of the need for differentiation implies a sense of self-affirmation — or we — against the other — and thus the positive content of the friendly-enemy relationship as the consciousness of equality and of alterity. The difference we-they establish a principle of opposition and complementarity, and the perception that a group develops of itself in relation to others is an element that at the same time distinguishes it, so that the possibility of recognizing the enemy implies the identification of a political project that aims to generate a sense of belonging. As you know at first hand, there are political forces that need to move in this dialectic friend-enemy to strengthen their cohesion, especially when many of their components have not assimilated or developed the feeling of belonging to them. On the other hand, there are political forces that do not have to focus their efforts on searching for enemies and elements of cohesion that maintain and reinforce that sense of belonging; therefore, they can devote all their time to working for the common good and for the advancement of society. I believe that we all know which part of this disunity you are in, but, of course, in the People's Parliamentary Group we have clear that we must continue to belong to this second group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u32	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Replica. Author group of the bill, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u33	I think this has certainly just been, perhaps, involuntaryly, because there are people who have already incorporated into their subconscious certain ways of pronouncement, but it was an absolute lack of respect before a proposal that was at all exposed precisely to the opposite, which was to overcome that alterity, as we overcome that friend-enemy alterity that you say I posed. No, it's just that we here should have the only alterity, which is, the Democrats against the non-democrats. And you should be on the side of the Democrats, you shouldn't be on any other side. [[Applause]] And they're not. He said the proposed method of recovery in the bill was unprecedented. No, no, the unpublished was the process of obtaining in 1938; and the unpublished is that a force that is said to be democratic comes here to defend the interests of the Franco... that is, it is unpublished. [[Applause]] The unpublished, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is that you come here to speak of the right to private property, which is not a fundamental right and, on the other hand, the right to dignity — which is a fundamental right — you did not come here to defend it. [[Applause]] And we between Franco's property and dignity choose dignity. We know what side they're on. [[Applause]] Equip, come here and talk as if this was the expropriation of a road to widen and make out borders, when it's a consideration and when you know that later we can discuss the legal aspects that you want in your processing, it's an excuse of bad payer and a lack of respect as well. Equiparating this with the right to compensation and reparation — which I see here is still a utopia — compared with a bureaucratic speech to hide what really exists, which is a defense of the interests of Franco's family — whether they want or not — what the People's Party is doing... yes, sir, that institutional statement I was appointing. Yes, of course we have reason to doubt the intention and interest of the People's Party to fulfil that mandate of the House. They just gave us one more reason. There are reasons; unfortunately, there are reasons. What are you afraid of? Who are they afraid of? Do they fear to disturb the ultra-rightness within the People's Party, their Le Pen that they have within the People's Party? Are they afraid to bother them? [[Murmurs.]] Yeah? Who are they afraid of? Or is it just contempt for the victims of barbarism? Don't you owe them anything to the Democrats who defended the legality of the Republic? Don't you owe him anything to be in institutions like this? Don't we owe him anything... for us to be in the German Parliament today? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And finally, I also want to say that what you are doing, what the Spanish State is doing with the non-breakdown with the previous regime, with the preservation of the privileges of certain families -- exemplified and symbolized by the Franco family; this is a symbol too, but a symbol that helps to advance -- is what was called and what was said "the second death of the victims," the forgetfulness and contempt, the contempt that you have just done to the victims. They're excuses for bad payers. It's a consideration. Of course it's hard to fit legally, because the lawfulness of the Spanish state is not a legality that broke with the previous regime; they left a lot of things tied up. But we have to fight to set law to justice. And that's our work, that of the legislative power, to adjust the legality to justice. And of course, it is possible, as is possible in Germany, Portugal or Italy, only to have political will, political will that you deny. They are an exception in Europe. They are an exception in this country. They still defend Frankish privileges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u34	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Debates and votes on the Opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, delivered by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law, to present before the Congress of Deputies, an organ for the transfer of the title and powers of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and, where appropriate, the number of members of the Chamber responsible for their defence and subsequent designation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u35	There are no amendments. The President of Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, Mr Jaime Castineira Broz, has the floor to present the Commission's statement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u36	President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. This bill to present before the Congress of Deputies, an organ for the transfer of the title and powers of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the authorship of the four parliamentary groups that join the House — the People's Group of Galicia, En Marea, the Socialists of Galicia and the Nationalist Block Galego — was presented to the Parliamentary Register on 18 January 2017. Following its consideration by the plenary at its meeting on 7 March, and after the deadline for the submission of amendments to the joint without the formulation of any of them, the Chair appointed in Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on 19 April, issued his report favourable to the text of the bill at the Constitutive Session and Working Meeting maintained on the same date, with the assistance of this chair speaking to them and of the incumbent rapporteurs: Mr Martín Fernández Prado, of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia; Mr Antón Sánchez García, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea; Mr Raú Fernández Fernández, of the Socialist Group of Galicia; and Mr Xosé Luís Bará Torres, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Group of Galicia. Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, at the meeting on May 2, unanimously approved the dictation which I am presenting in accordance with the original text. This bill, preceded by the corresponding explanatory statement, consists of 2 articles as well as 3 additional provisions and 1 last. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this special legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of this Parliament's Bill to present before the Congress of Deputies, an organic transfer of the title and powers of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u37	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship for a period of five minutes. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u38	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, today I can't help having a certain feeling of dja vu. About 14 months ago in this same Parliament we approved this bill for which we had already applied for the transfer of AP-9. This law, which called for the transfer, was banned violently by the People's Party, with lies, by Mrs. Ana Pastor and Mr. Rajoy, even though the People's Party no longer had a majority in Congress. Today we're going to approve an explosion of law. The only difference between these two laws is that, with the counseling of this House's lawyer, we removed those articles that had served as an excuse for the vile veto of the People's Party to the transfer of AP-9; a transfer that we believe is key to ending the legalized scam of the beaches, with a third service and continued abuse of Audasa. Why are we talking since the BNG that the AP-9 situation is a scam and a scandal for this country? Well, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to explain it in four very simple data. The first one: the Greeks and the Greeks have paid more than 2,500 million euros in peas. Audasa has over 900 million euros in profits and they still tell us we owe them money. They still tell us we owe them money! Secondly, because we paid more peas to travel from La Coruña to Vigo, 130 kilometers away, than from A Coruña to Madrid with 510 kilometers away. A real nonsense! Third, look, Galicia represents 6% of the state territory, but we have 10 percent of the kilometres of motorways tolls from all over the Spanish state. Solidarity, no, you call this -- I think -- in the state forces? And, in any case, we have all over the Spanish state three highways that are 75 years old with beaches. Also because of the solidarity of the Spanish State — we have to say that, thanks to the People's Party and the Socialist Party — two of these highways are in our country, AP-9 and AP-53. The transfer is important because it would give us the possibility of being able to intervene to curb the fees, to change the conditions of the concession and for once Audasa to have sanctions for such abusive treatment of this country. Because, it is curious, years and years of abuse and not a single sanction, nor by the governments of the People's Party, nor - you should say - by the governments of the Socialist Party. Some will say — and I suppose they will say it in this House — that defending to end the AP-9 scam is a utopia, a chemera. But I'm asking those who defend that theory to answer one question: how is it possible that Mr. Rajoy has at least EUR 3,500 million to rescue Madrid's radials and, in the case of AP-9, zero euros? And it's more like, as a help to the situation in the country, an increase in the rates next year. Another case and another example of their solidarity. However, I want to acknowledge my satisfaction because we have come here and because the way has not been easy. And I think, with all humility, but also with all realism, we must remember that today we would not be here without the impulse and generosity of the BNG. When we met the veto of shame, the veto of Rajoy and Ana Pastor on the transfer of AP-9, in the Block we did not remove the towel and made sure that the political forces of this country would remain united. The president of the board had already accepted the no, but in the block we took the initiative because we didn't take the towel when we ended the scam. We call for a meeting of the leaders of all political forces. Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Leicega did not want to sit on that table, gave no convincing explanation. I do want to thank Mr. Villares for being there and for really responding to what our country needed at that time. But we didn't resign with that refusal, and we went to a panel of spokesmen and we proposed to all groups that we should jointly register this initiative. But we see, ladies and gentlemen, that generosity has only one direction and that there is no reciprocity. [[Applause]] Today we are going to watch a glove of the People's Party, the PSOE and the Tide to exclude the Galician Nationalist Block from the defense in Congress of this law. It's going to exclude the only political force that doesn't have a foot in Madrid and that could make a clear defense, uniquely Welsh, of why it's necessary to transfer the AP-9. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, if the common sense is not imposed, the political force that drafted it will be excluded from the defense of this law in Congress. It will do nothing but the political force that vetoed the debate of this law in Congress and the other two who were unable to bring it forward in front of a minority People's Party. I ask them whether it seems honest and ethical to veto the political force that pushed this law against wind and tide, which drafted it and rescued it when it was doomed to die after the veto of Rajoy and Ana Pastor. We propose an agreement which is reasonable, of common sense: that when we advocate initiatives that must be taken to Congress we first ensure that the advocacy group on this initiative will always be in this representation of Parliament and that the other two positions are divided proportionately between the rest of the groups, thus maintaining democracy and plurality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u40	...and above all something that is very important in politics, ethics, because democracy is not an issue of arithmetic, a former Member of this House said so much. And, of course, democracy when it doesn't have honesty and ethical principles, democratic values and generosity, results in fraud. I, of course, hope that this veto will not be the foreclosure of a new clamp in the state to ban the transfer and prevent us from ending from Galicia with the abusive peas of AP-9. It's over, Mr. President. I am deeply sorry that one day we had to send a message of unity from the Galician political forces to parties, opportunisms and disloyalty to work to be the message that leaves this clamp between the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Tide. And I'm sending a message to all the Galicians who are up to the noses of the AP-9 peas: that in the Block...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u42	...for many vetoes, we will continue to defend and work to put an end to this swindle that has legalized the state political forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u44	Good morning to all of you. What a sad act! What an out-of-place victimism! What a shame! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Finally, after just the parliamentary groups that we represent the whole House had the courage to sign a joint agreement from all groups, which is what brings to this House, a joint bill of law from all these groups, there are those who intend to capitalize an initiative that is of the whole House, and that is the best guarantee of its failure. We just did everything we could to ensure that there was unanimity in the House, which is the guarantee that this would go forward, because it's the only thing we care about, that it would go forward in Madrid, not that someone here could put a medal, that it didn't deserve. [[Applause]] On the other hand, we believe that it is fair that the AP-9 is managed from Galicia. It's our main street, it's our main way of communication, the one that vertebrates all west of Galicia, not only by itself, but by all the connections it has, either by infrastructure that built the Galician Union or the General Administration of the State. Today is the main road to communication, our main street; it is our main street connecting three airports, the main ports - except San Cibrán, which is too far north - that connects the eight main urban areas of Galicia, and therefore managing it from here is a great opportunity. We also know that there is a circumstance that concerns us, which is the extension of its concession until the year 2048. We believe that it was not a good decision, that at that time it was not acting according to Galician interests. It was a government presided over by Mr. Aznar, when Mr. Fraga was in charge of the Council of Galicia, and it was a bad decision that compromises us all and gives rise to some circumstance that we must know. Today the General Administration of the State is having a net positive balance of AP-9's management, because the works that are necessary to improve communications in this western bank are paid by AP-9 users through fees, but the General Administration of the State collects a corporate tax that in the whole concession until 2048 will mean more than 500 million euros. That is why we feel better about the formula we adopt today than the original formulation, because the formula we adopt today will force this law to be discussed once it is passed by the Congress of Deputies and to negotiate in the Joint Commission on Transfers the conditions under which this infrastructure will be transferred to Galicia. It's the opportunity to put those things on the table; it's the opportunity to put them on the table which is the net balance of AP-9; it's the opportunity to put them on the table which users of the table are paying too high fees; and it's therefore the opportunity to demand from the General Administration of the State that makes an effort to make the transfer take place in conditions that allow them to substantially lower the fee. When we initially discussed this law, I said here that it didn't seem reasonable to me that Rosal's wine producers had to pay the price to put their products in the Coruña and, however, Bierzo's producers could arrive without it. And that's exactly what's happening, because this infrastructure is working with an additional load for ourselves. It's about getting a few conditions that allow this infrastructure to function well as an internal articulation element in Galicia, and this means management from close proximity, and this means a smaller fee load for users of that infrastructure. That's what we should try to get with the transfer. And this can be achieved if we have unanimity here and from the People's Party - because the other relevant groups in the Congress of Deputies seem to agree - convince their Members to give green light to this transfer in the best conditions. It's possible because of the political circumstances that Spain has at the moment and, therefore, we have a huge responsibility ahead of us. Not only are we going to vote in favour of this law, but we believe that every effort must be made to ensure that there is unanimity in the Congress of Deputies and that the transfer is made in the best conditions for Galicia. The AP-9 managed from here, with the lowest possible tolls, to be possible without fees and returning control to the Greeks of this decisive infrastructure for our internal joint. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u45	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u46	Good morning for a third time, or a fourth. We regret that it cannot be reflected in the debate of Congress when the law is taken, the plurality of this Parliament, which basically derives from the fact that there are only three representatives, by article 87 of the Constitution, and that it cannot be changed. We were open to exploring any possibility that plurality would reflect. But, of course, we are the second force of this Parliament and we cannot escape our responsibilities with citizenship and with our voters. If we follow the line of the speech of the BNG spokesperson, we would all speak of the BNG and not of AP-9, and therefore we would be doing a very great favor to the People's Party because we would be alienating the focus of where it should be, which is in the responsibility of the veto to deal with the bill previously made. And I'm not going to fall there, there are battles I'd rather not give, though the losses, as I said... this wasn't Derrida, but someone said that. I'd rather lose them. So I'm going to focus on the person responsible that we're repeating the adoption of a law in similar terms, which is the People's Party. We will unanimously adopt a proposal for a bill to demand at the Congress of Deputies the transfer of AP-9 to the Council of Galicia. The first time he was banned in an antidemocratic, manipulative and liar manner by the Government of the People's Party. You and Mr. Feijóo said neither mu; it is no wonder, seeing the events that happen, the last of the state's budgets, more and more usual. Mr. Feijóo flatters him when it comes to acting as President of the Union outside this country, squats him in front of the interests of his party and shrinks when he has to face the mighty. Even so, today the news is that the Galician People's Party cannot guarantee here that this guarantee of the unity of the Spanish state that I know it is going to vote the same as in Madrid. And that's news. It's news that they can't come here yet to say that in Madrid they're going to support the processing of this law. And we also want to talk about the responsibility of the People's Party in the real looting that it assumes and that I assumed the privatization of AP-9 by the Government of Aznar, with Mr. Álvarez Cascos, with Mr. Aznar in front and Mr. Feijóo as Counsellor for Territorial Policy. I didn't say you either. The transfer is a small improvement, but at all it confronts the fundamental, and the fundamental is the continuing scam of a peerless business that has a company by grace of the decisions of the People's Party; favourable treatment that certain companies have received during their governments and which mortgage the future of Galicia, the Greeks and the Greeks. They hypothesize our future by paying one of the most expensive taxes in the state to cross from north to south our country. The People's Party should respond — I know it does not — about the decisions made about AP-9 in privatization at the price of a friend to Sacyr, a casual donor of the People's Party, as stated in the papers of Bárcenas. It should explain, because it is responsible for watering this company, which subsequently sold with a million-dollar surpluses, a business capable of generating profits after clean dust and ball taxes of more than 30%, or about 30%. One out of two euros collected in peas in AP-9 are profits before taxes. One out of two euros! How is it possible for a government to give a private company this business at the cost that we have to pay the most expensive taxes in the state? 2015 accounts and 2016 accounts. 2015 accounts: fees, 134 million euros; after-tax benefits, 44. 2016: 138 million euros, and rising; profits after taxes, 48 million, I think. That's what it is, isn't it corruption? If it's not corruption, it looks a lot like it. Even above, usually, when privatized, the excuse is the management capacity of the private company. For here the general director of Audasa is still the same as us nineties, Mr. Andrés Muntaner, Mr. Rajoy's close friend, who frequentes the Casino of Pontevedra very much; the same, the same gentleman who does nothing. Because this is a business, as it is said, of rainy benefits from the sky, rather stolen from the Greeks and the Greeks. BOE's business, amicable capitalism which the People's Party has used to us. In view of this situation, we believe that transfer is a step, but it does not affect the fundamental, and the fundamental thing to face this country and a responsible government is the ransom for the public of this infrastructure; an infrastructure in which nearly one out of two euros of what it collects are benefits. He's got a margin for this public ransom and to lower the rates for citizens of this country. That's why we are going to demand that an official study, an official calculation, of the viability of that ransom be conducted; that it has not done so far in Galicia's Union shows the complicity of the People's Party with these companies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u47	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u48	Mr. President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs. Pontón, allow me to tell you to change the law. They're not the same, as long as they show a paper from here. That's why we need the help of legal advice, so if you change the law and that's why you come back. And the law is not the same as you proposed; it is a law of the four groups and not a law of the BNG. It's a law of this whole House, and I think that's just one of its values and its strengths. That's why we bring this law back with changes. Mr Sánchez, this law could not be processed by technical reports, both from the Government and from Parliament, from the Legal Counsel of Parliament. So we also make changes to try to solve those reports that made it impossible to process the previous law. But allow me, as always on this subject, to begin by congratulating and thanking the consensus. I believe that this unanimity, the unanimity of this House, at least in the votes, although in this state it does not seem, in relation to the transfer of AP-9, has a real political relevance, and above all — as the spokesman of the Socialist Party said — taking into account the current composition of Congress and taking into account the new majority in Congress, I think it is very important that we have this unanimity. And let me remind you, even if you don't like, especially the people of the Bipartite, the coherence of the People's Group's vote, which, as always, keeps that coherence with the vote regardless of whether it's in the opposition, being in the Government, saying what Madrid reports say or who's in Madrid, which other groups can't say and change their vote depending on whether they're ruling or whether they're in the opposition. We have kept our votes in favour of transfer, both in opposition and in government, not as others have done since the Bipartite. As you know, we have passed a law with legal changes that we believe will make it easier for you to pass through Parliament. And I say they'll make it easier because this goal, regardless of these changes, is not going to be easy. It's a difficult business, because unlike what we've repeatedly heard from you, this processing, this transfer, it would be a fact that has no precedent in Spain, because neither the Basque case nor the Catalan is assimilable. And I explain, in the case of the Basque motorways, they could be transmitted by virtue of an exceptionality which was collected in the Constitution, in the first additional provision, which reflected that the historic rights of the outer territories had to be respected, and among them one of the oldest was that of roads. And within this exceptionality, which is the only one who recognized the Constitution, was transferred to A-8, from Bilbao and Behobia. It was transmitted to the Basque Government, but it was then transmitted to the outside deputies, because these are the ones that have been recognized by the Constitution these rights. In any case, it's not the case of the Catalan highways, A-17 and A-19; it's not the same. It became clear in the transfer decree that it was because of the complementary nature of these A-7 routes. What would be similar to the case of the AP-9 motorway would be that of A-7. By the way, that the Catalan Government has appealed to the Constitutional Court the State Road Law in order to be able to apply for the transfer of the A-7... and the Constitutional Court has ruled against Catalonia with arguments that also make this subject difficult. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why I say it's difficult, because it would be the first motorway of the State's trunk network that, without being specifically collected in the Constitution, would be transferred. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We are therefore opening the way for this law, if we have achieved this request from Parliament. In any case, so that they don't continue to confuse the issue of fees with the subject of transfer, I want to remind them that all the highways have been and have kept their rates; even in the case of the motorways of bathtubs in 2003, when they were liberalized, far from liberalized, what they did was to create a new concession, which, of course, has more to do with the toll than the one of the highways of Galicia. But we'll have time this afternoon to talk about tolls. In any case, I believe that in this legislation there has been tremendous progress on these issues with the creation of a bilateral commission that allows, among other things, as we have already reminded you several times, to save more than 100 million euros from an agreement that the Bipartite has made and that has already cost us 64 million euros. With the agreements of this bilateral committee, first, we will be able to make decisions jointly with the Central Government, we will save more than 100 million euros and we will be closer to the decisions reached by AP-9. I think, therefore, that even if it's not easy to get to it, we have to keep working. The German Government and the People's Group will continue to demand where this AP-9 transfer to Galicia touches. And I want to tell you, Mrs. Pontón, that although you have no voice in Madrid, the only veto here was that of the citizens with their group; there is no other veto but that of the citizens, who don't want them in Madrid and little in Galicia. What we want to tell you is that, regardless of this and that they can agree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u50	...because I think we can all agree that the majority group should be represented, in the other two squares the opposition groups can agree, but whoever goes can be sure that this unanimous decision of Parliament, which is really important...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u52	...and the arguments — I am finished, President — of this House will be perfectly represented in Madrid, because we will move this unanimity, the decision and the wishes of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u53	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. We shall proceed to the vote. I'm telling you that the problem we have is a fall of external tension and, as in all cases, we will slowly regain the light. You know what this is like, but it's inconvenient that we can't control; fall in external tension. [[Murmurs.]] Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u54	We started by voting on the G.P. Bill. From Marea. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. in Marea, to refer to the Congress of Deputies, amending Law 52/2007, of 26 December, so that rights are recognized and extended and measures are laid down for those who have suffered persecution and violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u55	We are now voting on Commission 2nd. I remind all your lords that this vote must be passed by an absolute majority. We therefore proceed to the vote on this opinion. We vote. Voting of the dictatorship, issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law, to present before the Congress of Deputies, an organic transfer of the title and powers of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and, where appropriate, to fix the number of members of the Chamber responsible for their defence and subsequent designation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u56	And now it comes, as agreed at the Council of Spokesmen, also by an absolute majority, to set the number of Members or Members who will proceed to their defence in Congress. It was agreed at the Speaker's Board that it would be a maximum of three. The Bureau, after listening to the Speaker's Meeting, at the meeting on May 2, 2017, agreed to propose that three also be the number of Members or self-employed Members responsible for their defence. [[Assentment.]] I beg you to distribute the ballots for the vote. Therefore, it is now necessary to designate the three Members or Members for the defence of the bill before the Congress of Deputies. Every parliamentarian or parliamentarian must write a single name on the paper -- or leave it blank -- that will be distributed to them now. The highest number of votes will be elected or elected, and, if necessary, the vote will be repeated. Are the papers distributed? They're still at that stage. [[Pause.]] When they're all distributed, we'll proceed with the call, which will be made by the secretary of the Bureau, Mrs. Raquel Arias Rodríguez. I pray to the vice president first and to the vice-secretary lady next to the ballot box. [[Pause.]] Is that it? Paper's already distributed. I'm begging the secretary to start calling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u57	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u58	Did they all exercise the right to vote? [[Assentment.]] So we proceed to the scrutiny.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u59	There's the scrutiny done. The voting was as follows: votes cast, 74. The 74 are valid. Don Martín Fernández Prado has 40 votes; Don Antón Sánchez, 14 votes; Don Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga, 14 votes; and Don Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, 6 votes. Therefore, they are appointed to defend the bill before the Congress of Deputies, Martín Fernández Prado, Antón Sánchez García and Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u60	And now we move on to the third point of the agenda, which are appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Councilor of the Sea, on his own request, to report on the foreseeable impact of Brexit on the Greek fisheries sector, the possibilities open to this new set and the actions taken on this matter
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u61	To present the appearance, she has the floor of the sea councilwoman Rosa María Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. I share today in this House to realize something that can mark the change of the European Union as a whole, as it will affect the status quo in all the common activities and ordinations that we have been maintaining. One of the main aspects affecting Brexit will undoubtedly be fisheries, one of the regulatory areas based on common policies at European level and a relevant activity in the Union, since the European Union's fishing industry is the fourth largest in the world, with a production of about 6.4 million tonnes of fish per year and which employs more than 350,000 workers. Going to a more local focus, this simple fact will have consequences on our fishing, seafood and aquaculture activity and, in addition, in the sea-industrial chain, and we must be prepared to confront them and argue in their defense, because we play Brexit as a chance or a threat. As it is well known, on 23 June 2016, citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland decided by referendum to leave the European Union, of which they have been members since 1973. It was adjusted by 3.8 percentage points, reaching the non-European Union 51.9 % of the votes and support for the permanence 48.1%. It is true that from an analysis by territories we note that the main support for the position of remaining within the European Union has been achieved in the main maritime-fishing regions, in the case of Scotland and Northern Ireland, but it is well known that the British fisheries sector, including these areas, has continued in Europe. A media campaign in this sense, a political use in the same direction and a desire to move away from the common organization of fisheries management and management, obviously, the need to maintain a common market for fishery products, encouraged this position and made it popular among the maritime-fishing sector. But that referendum did not legally start the process of disconnection, so the United Kingdom would have to invoke Article 50 of the Treaty on Union. Thus, on 9 March 2017 the British Prime Minister sent the official letter invoking this article to Brussels, after being authorised by the British Parliament on 17 March 2017. It now opens a period of at least two years of negotiations, within which it will be necessary to postulate the main aspects to be divided within that disconnection. We know that it will be long and hard, so in that line we must be prepared not only to enforce our position within Europe, but also to adjust our internal interests in order to meet British demands. Reference should be made here to the recently published guidelines of the consecutive European Council for the notification of the invocation of Article 50 by the United Kingdom, adopted at a special meeting on 29 April, which draws particular attention to the prospect of a situation of negotiation failure. For that we must also be prepared. Premier May's speech, delivered at Lancaster House on January 17, 2017, and the publication of the so-called United Kingdom White Paper to Brexit revealed the main ideas by the British Government for the future relationship with the European Union, and with those first vimbios, those of a hard stance, we must begin to work, contemplating a possible agreement or the absence of it. It is worth stressing that converting ideas into a disconnected agreement can take multiple forms. Effects, no doubt these will be strong. This is an unprecedented fact in Europe and it is not clear, at the moment, its possible consequences for the United Kingdom itself, for Europe itself, for the economy, for international relations and, as far as we are concerned, for Galicia and its fisheries sector. The British outflow of the European integration project means that the fifth economy in the world and the second European Union decides to disconnect from a space in which it has been involved legally, politically, economically and socially for more than forty years, and within them also as far as fishing is concerned. Precisely, in fishing terms we are talking about a country with broad interests and traditions in this area, with sharks under its sovereignty and one of the first fishermen — transformers and accumulators — of the European Union, and that puts us in the face of a hard opponent. That's why Galicia has to be ready. Because of responsibility and commitment we have to make this process an opportunity, by halting the threat it entails, because we, in maritime-fishing terms, have much to say, we have to bring this word to decision-making centres and do it in leadership conditions; led in Spain and led in Europe. I say this because Galicia is one of the most important maritime-fishing regions of the European Union, and this importance is shifted to the social and economic spheres. We have more than 50% of Spain's maritime fishing employment and 10% of the European Union. We landed almost 70% of Spain's fresh fishing and more than 11% of the European Union. The preserver of Greece accounts for 86% of Spanish production, both in production and in value, and makes Spain the first producing zone of the European Union and the second in the world after Thailand. Greek aquaculture produces 14% of the total European Union and we invoice 4.5% of the total European Union. So we make fishing, seafood, aquaculture and the sea-industrial chain a fundamental element in addressing Brexit and its incidence. It's time to add more effort to make this step, clear and worrying, win. We do so with conviction, we give this sector the importance it has and we want this recognition to be reaffirmed in Madrid and referred to in Brussels, because the gross added value of fisheries and aquaculture in Galicia is 25 times higher than that of the European Union and more than six times more than that of Spain. That's why we've been working since minute one. Since June 24th last year, we've been immersed in this work. On this date, when we knew the result, we were able to fight possibilities and possible consequences, because, as I said, it is responsibility and commitment for the Greek fisheries sector. The first quote of analysis and recognition of the importance of fishing in this process of disconnection took place five days later and told the UK ambassador precisely as the recipient of the message of the importance of Greek fishing in this process. At this meeting held by the President of the Union on 29 June, the importance of maintaining access to water, the necessary analysis of the impact on the markets and the intention of the Government of the United Kingdom to be vigilant in the course of negotiations in order to try, as far as possible, to maintain the current situation of the Welsh fleet in United Kingdom waters. At that time, the question of more extensive analyses was already under way in which the issue of assessing damage and supporting arguments was raised, with a reading of the range of circumstances reached and taking into account the opening of the negotiating process. We needed those data and arguments and we needed to know what the playing board was going to be like; how and what aspects we should focus our attention and how we should focus on, and how we have the possibilities of going through each of these aspects, especially on legal, administrative, organizational and legal issues. That's why we've been working since the first day 24 with the Universitary Institute of European Studies Salvador de Madariaga, University of Coruña, to analyze the legal scope and possibilities for future action in this matter for the defence of the Galician fleet, and we've started the steps to define the scope and objectives of a report, a study on the content. This report was officially commissioned on 5 July whenever we obtained the visa and pleasure of the Galician Fisheries Council, who supported the proposal made by the Council and who in this consultation ratified the importance of counting on it. This report, led by Professor Sobrino Heredia, analyses the withdrawal from the United Kingdom of the European Union and its possible consequences for the Galician fisheries sector from an perspective of the legislative and administrative framework, defining that range of possibilities for exit, subsequent agreement and how to disconnect itself. The document was delivered to us on 20 August 2016. It is recalled that Brexit is a complex negotiation process that can be extended over time, since, of course, everything will depend on the specific terms that are made in the agreements between the United Kingdom and the European Union, as well as that there are certain aspects that will depend solely on the unilateral decisions which the British country adopts. In the midst of this uncertainty, the report analyses a number of possible scenarios, linking them to the interests of the Greek fishing industry, and sets out the following conclusions. Brexit should conclude with an international withdrawal agreement, which would pick up the terms of the break-up process with the European legal system, the internal market and European policies. Moreover, Brexit might need an agreement that regulates the relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom, where legal security and the stability of economic and trade relations between the two parties would be the primary priority, principles established in the great freedoms underpinning the internal market. On the other hand, this process might require an international reciprocal fishing agreement covering the conditions for mutual access to fisheries resources, highlighting the revision of the relative stability principle governing the allocation of tac and quotas within the Union. In an important term, it is also stated that Brexit could affect the legal security of the Galician companies with British flag vessels that made investments on their day, even defending their settlement and development by legal means, on the basis of expectations and a legal scenario that could now be truncated by the closure of access to Community waters. It could lead to negative consequences for fishing activities in waters bordering the Falkland Islands, endangering trade relations and increasing international tension in the area with the United Kingdom and Argentina. In this respect, we understand that this aspect is one of Brexit's main focal points and its possible impact on the Welsh fleet, and it can reach 66 Spanish flag fishing vessels and around 800 crew members working in the Great Sun, to which 20 other Greek capital fishing vessels and British flag and around 240 crew members must be added. To this fleet, which together owns a direct joint billing of 150 million euros, we would have to add 40 other fishing vessels of the Falkland flag and around 700 Spanish crew members. With regard to the free movement of persons, it is understood that it will not be trumped if the United Kingdom and the European Union negotiate an agreement allowing it to remain on the internal market, so that the rights acquired by European citizenship: residence, work and business, can be retained. It is no less so knowing that this factor would affect around 900 Spanish crew members of British ships, and that among them would be those who form part of these ships of German capital and flag of the United Kingdom. In another area, it must be said that the study concludes that the free movement of goods will not be affected if the United Kingdom and the European Union negotiate to maintain a balance between the entry of British fisheries products into the European market and the access of the Community fleet to fishing resources in British waters. We must remember that the billing of Galician seafood exports to the United Kingdom is seven times lower than the amount we import, so this appears to be an important element in this exchange of negotiating factors. In addition, and on the other hand, Brexit will need to follow up on the way in which the United Kingdom's participation in international treaties — multilateral or bilateral — will be resolved and its presence in international organisations whose decision affects the Welsh fisheries sector, especially in NAFO and NEAF, and those that might be left out. In addition, and since Brexit is materialized, the Court of Justice of the European Union will no longer have the power to resolve disputes arising between the European Union and the United Kingdom in the maritime-fishing field, in line with the procedures laid down in international law, United Nations conventions on the law of the sea, as well as the development of new ones. In budgetary terms, Brexit will involve a reduction in the budget of the European Union and the various Structural and Cohesion Funds, the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, which will result in the recomposition of allocations and contributions from the Member States of the European Union. Finally, Brexit will need to follow up on what happens with the British presence in European institutions in the development and implementation of fisheries policies, since the transfer of British state competences to the regions could lead to four different systems: Welsh, English, Scottish and Norwegian. In this sense, we believe that the transfer of the Community Reference Laboratory to follow up on the viral and bacteriological contaminants of bivalve molluscs, which is located in the United Kingdom, will be relevant because the functions it performs are of high impact on the marketing of these products on the internal market and which are a matter of competence in the Union of Galicia. Having said this, and taking into account Galicia's ability and experience in this control and the necessary transfer of this centre, this can and must be a key element to work in front of the European Commission with the cockpit to get that Community reference laboratory to have its base in Galicia. All of this analysis was presented to the sector on November 8th in the plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council, and at this point was highlighted an element of survival of great interest to the sector as is the possible revision of the evil called the principle of relative stability, since this British decision would open a new opportunity, fruit of a survival situation, in which the circumstances in which the use of that criterion was justified on its day would make its review viable. We should bear in mind that much of the British quota is fished in its own waters, and that the redistribution of quotas must count on negotiation with other coastal states such as Norway, Iceland or the Faroe Islands. In addition to this presentation and discussion with the sector, the report by the Salvador de Madariaga Institute was sent to the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, Food and the Environment, to Spain's permanent representation to the European Union, and was also officially given to DG MARE for its analysis and consideration. Finally, the report drawn up and delivered defines a situation in which Brexit does not have to harm the Greek fishing sector. There will be aspects where it can even improve the situation and there will be others where it can get worse, and the fundamental issue will be the negotiation and importance of fishing in this process. In any case, we know that the key thing is to keep up with the negotiations, to prepare the positions that the European Union will defend, to seek ways of accessing the decision-making process and to make fishing a matter of weight in the working committees that negotiate how Brexit will be formed. So this continuous follow-up thesis is what we're applying day by day. We begin this analysis movement with a key element such as the invocation of Article 50 by the United Kingdom and the definition of the parameters where they want to discuss the process, which defines a hard Brexit both in the words of the British Prime Minister and in the document of the so-called White Paper. Furthermore, this position has been answered firmly by the decision-making bodies of the European Union both from the Council and from Parliament, and within this, especially from the Committee on Fisheries, which has defined several aspects to necessarily include in the exit agreement, among which three key elements would be found for us. The first, reciprocal access of the fleets of the European Union and the United Kingdom to the fishing zones of the United Kingdom and the European Union, without extending the quota of fishing opportunities of the United Kingdom to regional fisheries organisations such as NEAF. Second. Granting the United Kingdom access to European Union markets in a reciprocal manner and subject to access to slots. Third. To ensure the maintenance of the same legal conditions for fishing vessels registered in the United Kingdom, without requiring a greater economic link. With this approach of positions found, we must prepare ourselves, verifying the potential of possible impacts, both in economic, legal and administrative terms. This is not supposed to be pessimistic, but we need to be realistic and get all the data in scope of Brexit's impact and arguments needed to reduce them and reverse them from Galicia and from Europe; that is to say, think of the best but prepared for the worst. In this sense, we have to do what we're already doing: a planning of the work that supports that necessary follow-up, and our roadmap for this year will be centered, after the preparation of the legal-administrative report, on a first question of follow-up and argumentation as the economic factor. This perennial analysis must be focused on the question of the prospect of the economic impact of the UK withdrawal on each of the subsectors of the marine industry chain, with a view to the search for exits and support to minimize this impact. At the moment, a report on the content is being prepared under the coordination of the Professor of Applied Economics and Expert in Fisheries Economics at the University of Santiago Dona María do Carme García Negro, also author of the input-output tables of the Welsh fishing. In the first step, the basic questions on the possible impact of cessation of fishing and access to waters will be analysed mainly by vessels in British waters and in the Malvinas. Induced or derived from the UK's participation in NEAF fishing quotas and trade access to European markets will also be available, which are part of a further assessment based on the evolution of negotiations. It should be borne in mind that the interrelationship between extraction, production and marketing may bring unintended indirect consequences and impacts, so the drift chain must be thoroughly analysed at a second stage in reviewing the branches of this exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union. Starting from this analysis, the roadmap of the work to be developed to strengthen the position of the Welsh marine-fishing structure in front of Brexit must be given in a double aspect: inside and outside. Inside we must continue to develop the work of study and analysis of the situation, especially as the negotiating process progresses, and the search for arguments for the defence of our positions and their consideration by Spanish and European negotiators. In this sense, the formation of an ad hoc working group within the Galego Fisheries Council, which is part of the last plenary session, must be used to channel and promote this task, and within it the legal and economic analyses will be analysed and supplemented. These analyses will focus, as we have said, on the basic economic impacts and consequences of the basic postulates of negotiation by the United Kingdom and the European Union on the Welsh maritime-fishing structure, on the possible reception of the Community Reference Laboratory for the follow-up of viral and bacteriological contaminants of bivalve molluscs and on the possible consequences of Brexit in the allocation and distribution of the European Maritime Fund and Fisheries for Galicia. These reports will be available progressively from here to the end of the year, and will be addressed sequentially within this group according to the evolution of negotiations, with the branch of analysis and complement them as far as possible. To carry out these analyses we will draw from recognized professions of prestige integrated into entities such as the Salvador de Madariaga Institute, the Department of Applied Economy of the University of Santiago de Compostela, the [...] of the Harbour Authority of Vigo and Cetmar itself. In addition, this information should be used as an argument on the importance of the Spanish fisheries position in the European negotiator framework, for which regular contacts will be developed with the General Fisheries Secretariat and the corresponding ministries. From an external point of view, action within Spain shall be carried out without prejudice to the action to be taken by Galicia abroad, which shall be consistent and coordinated with that developed by the corresponding ministries and Spain's permanent representation in the European Union. The main line will be the dissemination and argumentation of the importance of fishing within the EU-United Kingdom negotiations and, within it, the defence of the interests of the Greek fishing sector in this process. As a matter of fact, it will also be important to collect information from the sector, other regions and member states with similar conditions and related interests in order to articulate common positions in the face of negotiation. For this, a series of regular contacts will be developed, which will take advantage of Galicia's presence in decision-making and debate frameworks at European level to deliver available reports and analyses. We will take advantage of the presence in Brussels of all autonomous communities to visit the Councils of Fisheries Ministers of the European Union during the second half of the year, hold meetings and facilitate the analysis to the European Commission and, within it, to DG MARE, to the European Parliament and within it, to the Committee on Fisheries, as well as to Spain's permanent representation to the European Union. We also want to have the support of the European Economic and Social Committee through the NAT section, with particular relevance to the members of the Spanish Confederation of Fisheries in it, as well as other bodies such as the Committee of the Regions or the Conference of Peripheral and Maritime Regions. In this latter entity we will take advantage of the fishing group's quarterly coordination meetings and the lead in the specific ad hoc group on Brexit formed in the Atlantic Arc. Work with other regions, with a view to finding elements of connection and alliance, will also be strengthened through the Atlantic Arctic Conference and bilateral meetings, mainly with regions of France - Britain and the Loire Countries - and Ireland - Northwestern. As a matter of fact, we want to take advantage of Galicia's presence at the Anuga fair in Cologne to work with other member states. That is why we will advocate the exchange of information with German fishermen responsible for fishing interests, especially Lower Saxony and Schleswig-Hollstein, and with representatives of German fishing associations. In addition, we also want to extend this work to the Netherlands, Denmark and France, and, although it may seem a paradox, to other regions of the United Kingdom with great fishing importance like Shetland and Scotland, because sometimes we have more in common than we think and, in a negotiation with similar interests, we can even get points of union. Finally, we are already in touch and will strengthen the same with representative fishing entities at European level and we will also work in common with [...], composed of organisations from Spain, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Poland and Sweden, integrator of Europeche and the EPO, main European fisheries representative entities. We have work ahead and we have, for sure, to go repositioning elements and arguments in a living process, which will not be short or easy, in which we must support each step to make the need for virtue and prevent the dispersal of efforts from leading us to provide unsolicited information to state and European negotiators. We believe that with everyone's approach, we can all continue to maintain leadership in this process and make our arguments stand. We count on the arrival of the experts, but also on the arrival of the sector in this work. We want and we must lead this process, and in this way we are going ahead because only Brittany has something done in this respect, if well with a much more general reach. That is why we must, and we want to count on the support of all the honourable Members, and I propose to hold each semester a monographic meeting, in the 8th Commission, in which the information available is taken into account and the reports and arguments are analysed and supplemented. We all need this process, and I think we should all be involved for the good of our maritime-fishing sector. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u63	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u64	Good day to all and all. Good morning, Counselor. I, in fact, told you in your previous appearance that the problem of fishing in Galicia and how to address the consequences arising from the departure of the European Union from the United Kingdom is not so much in the arguments on which is the weight of the sea sector in Galicia, because it seems obvious that these data are more than known — although it is good to order them, re-examine them and put them white on black — because the reality of the situation in the sector in Galicia has not changed since this decision of the citizens of Great Britain, of the United Kingdom, to leave the European Union. What we're concerned about at the inbound BNG is two questions. On the one hand, the European Union is negotiating with the United Kingdom. Who's going to lead that negotiation? Who's going to defend Galicia's interests? Is Galicia going to have a direct voice where the decisions will have to be made? You haven't said anything about these matters. You talked about what the situation is, what the reports are, what the data are, but what you didn't say today is what will be the political weight that the Government of Greece is willing to exercise for Galicia to have a voice right where the decisions are made; the decisions of the European Union, of the 27 negotiating with the United Kingdom. But then there's negotiation within the 27, which is the most worrying part of the Galician Nationalist Block, which is going to be the negotiation within the 27th. Because the reality to this day is that, in these negotiations within the European Union, Galicia has always been losing. Clearly, the consequences of Brexit can be multiple and varied, but basically the consequences for Galicia are that Galicia is where the issues are decided, where the decisions are made. And it's very important how you negotiate, what the data is, but also who negotiates it and what weight you're willing to defend. The first question is whether the European Union will defend Welsh fishing at least with the same intensity as the United Kingdom will defend its own. And it's not a baladi question, Mrs. Quintana. This is not how much the European Union is going to defend fishing in general, but how much the European Union is going to defend Welsh fishing. If at least with the same intensity as the United Kingdom, of course, its own. Because you said here that it was the United Kingdom Sea sector that was one of the most positioned about its departure from the European Union because you considered that European Union politics was not beneficial to your interests. We are also concerned that in the recent visit of the President of the Union to the European Union — where he left those reports — he said it was essential to do a sensitization work, first, with the Spanish State. It's dramatic that at this point, and after knowing what the importance of fishing in Galicia is, we still have to be doing awareness-raising work with the Spanish State. Of course, it will be the Spanish State that negotiates within the European Union. There is a need to raise awareness of the Commissioners or the Commissioners and raise awareness within the European Union. And what I'm asking you is what these sensitization tasks are going to be. What we are concerned about at the BNG is that the dramatic thing is that it is going to be the European Union that will negotiate, who will theoretically defend the interests of Welsh fishing with the United Kingdom. The European Union, responsible for the failure in the sector; the European Union, responsible for all the measures that have brought about the scrapping of ships, the loss of weight, the loss of force of Galicia in the sea, will theoretically be the one that will defend Galicia's interests. So the question is that we can wait for this European Union, in these negotiations on Greek fishing, when it is responsible for all the measures that have been taken and which, of course, have not benefited the sector. That we can expect from the Spanish State, which has done nothing to defend the area of the Greek Sea. Since the integration into the European Union in 1986, the Greek Sea has now had a strong, robust, healthy body; if it is the first fishing power in the European Union, to which the first fishing power is Denmark today. And it's not by chance, it's the result of the decisions that have been made. In 1973, the entry of Great Britain, Denmark and Ireland into the European Union meant a new form of Community fishing, because we think about what the European Union is today neither fishing nor was. It wasn't that it had little relevance anymore, it wasn't. It started when this entry from Britain, Denmark and Ireland began. When in 1981 Britain and France took over what was the freedom of access to Community waters, which would be logical, would it not? If we are told that we are in the European Union of freedom of movement, why did the Spanish State accept a framework where, for example, more than half of the discharges of the Greek ships have to be carried out in ports of the United Kingdom and cannot be done in Greek ports? Why do you have to carry that fish by sea? That milestone where there are states of first, states of second and then we are the stateless nations — as is the case with Galicia — that we have neither voice nor vote. An agreement which was then consolidated with the Community fisheries policy of 1983, which introduced the principle of relative stability, which means establishing principles by which fishing becomes decisive for certain countries, contains a history of the last six years, up to 1983 — where Galicia had neither recorded nor was it in the European Community — and the result is that, with the weight of the sea in Galicia, in the Spanish State having a 7% quota compared to 40%, which have other states whose weight in fishing was much lower and relative. The reality is that there is no Community fisheries policy in the European Union. What exists in the European Union is the establishment of a fisheries policy on the basis of the protection of the interests of certain Community countries. That's the part that really worries us because Galicia is a highly fishing-dependent area. Thus, 120,000 people live directly or indirectly from fishing, in a country of 2,700,000 inhabitants. With a turnover in the conservation that is Galicia's second economic activity. It is the second world power and the first in the European Union, and in the Spanish state it retains it means 86% of production. And all this potential contrasts with the political situation of defending those interests. The sea problem in Galicia is a political problem, it is the problem of lack of sovereignty, the problem of decision-making capacity, the problem that others decide for us and against us. They decide according to their interests rather than the interests of the Welsh fishing. And those are the ones that will once again negotiate with the United Kingdom and within the European Union itself. The next question, Counsellor, is whether you are really jumping to make this mean a review of the principle of relative stability. A relative stability principle which has been introduced in accordance with the interests of the United Kingdom, Denmark and Ireland, and with the exit of Brexit — basically in the part of Scotland as regards the United Kingdom — with the exit of the United Kingdom, this situation is very different. So are they really going to put pressure on the German Government and the Spanish Government so that that this principle of relative stability — so negative to the Greek sea — really changes and is established on the basis of truly fair and equitable criteria that serve to create an environment where jobs and wealth can be created according to the needs and real fishing capacity? Or is it going to continue to be depending on who weighs the most in the European Union? I must also transfer the concern of the sailors today, who feel ridiculed, discriminated against and none. The sailors and the ships that these days are seeing how they have to throw fish into the sea while other ships are fishing in yellow water a yard. [[Applause]] They're going to have to throw yards into the sea, Mrs. Quintana, who accidentally gets sick, who enters the nets. [[Applause]] They can't put a sign on her by telling her not to come in. They have to go up those nets and they have to throw it into the dead sea — as you know — which means a double job. And it's no coincidence, it's really the consequence that you, your Government, the German Government and the Spanish Government, have no initiative beyond following the common fisheries policy, allowing Madrid to impose a distribution model that sets quotas for the way or for accidental fishing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u66	...an individual division that really means ruin for many of our ships, Mrs. Quintana. If you ask us here today to put ourselves all behind the interests of Galicia and make a common front to defend in the European Union — not only against the United Kingdom, but also against the other countries of the European Union — the real interests of Galician fishing, I will tell you that yes, that the BNG is about to stand on that common front. What I don't think is that you come here today after a report, another report and another one and that you haven't passed on to this Parliament or these parliamentary groups any of those reports.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u68	Despite agreements in this Parliament where we show that good will that this exit from the United Kingdom becomes an opportunity and not a problem; that Galicia is no longer a currency of exchange and that the Greek sea is no longer a currency of exchange.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u70	But you, besides coming here today for a headline, will have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u72	...—Finished, President—to show...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u73	Time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u74	...some desire that you really want to count on the groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u75	Your time is over, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u76	...politicals present in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u77	Two minutes over time. Thank you very much. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. As the press office is very good at his intervention because he told us a lot of data that we had the opportunity to read in the press. But as political officer, as head of this council, we cannot say the same thing. Finally tell us Galicia has to be ready, but how? "We asked him. What resources is Galicia going to use for Brexit? What demands will Galicia make with the Government of Spain? How will Galicia be represented? For who? Will you be represented by Michel Barnier or will you be represented by someone directly? And I'd also tell him something. It calls for us to make a common front in this Parliament. We didn't get the report from the University of Coruña either, so we didn't get anything, so the first thing we'd like to ask you, too, since public resources are being allocated for reporting, is that you share them. We would ask for transparency. [[Applause]] Brexit comes here today full and it's no less, because the fishing sector is a strategic sector for the Spanish economy, but generally for Galicia, and Galicia with Brexit plays a lot. In the decisions that are taken in the process of disconnection from the United Kingdom and the European Union, we play our present and we also play our future. It will be decided on fundamental issues such as the free movement of persons, the free movement of goods, trade relations, financial relations and so on. And all of these are fundamental issues. So for fishing to have room in negotiations, for the sector to have what it needs and what it demands within these fundamental issues, for Brexit to really be an opportunity to face the threats it poses, it is necessary that government efforts focus precisely on attaining these opportunities. Fishing must therefore be part of negotiations not as a currency of exchange, but as a fundamental issue to be dealt with, because — as we said — Galicia plays a great deal, and it is a fundamental issue to prevent the United Kingdom from continuing to enjoy the advantages of the European Union without contributing to the budget, without contributing to its water and, ultimately, to the European Union. That should be his first red line. Because of its importance, and recalling the complexity when Greenland went from the European Union — although they are totally different situations — it is clear that this issue of Brexit will be present here in the German Parliament but will also be very present on the street, watching for the interests of the sector. That is why, Counsellor, we ask you again, and today more than ever, that in this process characterized by uncertainty, by the insecurity that is causing in the sector, does not divide the sector. There is a need for consensus, for the sake of synergies and not to facilitate conflicts. The confrontation doesn't produce wealth, it doesn't bring benefits to the workers. Don't divide the sector. According to opportunities, one of the main opportunities presented with Brexit seems to change the principle of relative stability, when the European Union, when the United Kingdom, Denmark and Ireland in the beginning conditioned fisheries policy but, above all, pooled fishing opportunities. This principle was justified at that time by the needs of highly fisheries-dependent regions such as Scotland, Grenland and the coast of Ireland. Once the United Kingdom is firmly abandoned, only one of the three regions will remain, because Grenland is gone. The abandonment of the European Union by the United Kingdom should be an opportunity to adapt fishing policy to a very different reality than it was at that time in 1983. Fisheries management moved to another approach, an approach that was not there at the time. Therefore, the current model no longer responds to reality and those three highly dependent fisheries regions will no longer be part of the Union. Photography is not the same, therefore, there is no doubt that changing the principle of relative stability is an opportunity that Galicia should not let go. A principle according to which the quotas fixed represent a lower rating for the Spanish fleet and also for Galicia. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has already entered into an initiative in which we call on the Government of Greece to take the necessary management with the Government of Spain, and in turn with the European Union, so that these adjustments will take place when the United Kingdom leaves the European Union, including changing the principle of relative stability and taking into account the special dependence on fishing on the different countries that exist today. So the opportunity that we must not let go, that will have to be at the negotiating table: changing the principle of relative stability. The obligation to land all catches and impose that there are no discards in total allowable catches and quotas, which also affects the quota system as it is currently working. The flexibility of this model to ensure the future of the sector. But there are other issues that are not so related, that go beyond the management of fishing resources and that pose genuine threats; some have already spoken to us here, as the ships with Greek capital and British flag. Real threat to British flag loss. These are vessels for which important investments have been made and surely debt, staff recruitment and so on, all based on a situation that is changed as a result of Brexit. We are also talking about the ships which have Spanish flag and make in British waters, which will cease to be Community waters, with which will the possibility of accessing the resources in those waters for Greek ships be the same? It's going to be an important concern. And in the waters and territories of the British overseas, the Malvinas Islands? All of this will depend on the political will and the importance of fishing in negotiations. Precisely, as regards the movement of people and with regard to the Greek workers, although we're talking about fishing, we all have some family or friend who emigrated to the United Kingdom, especially on Thursdays with higher education. In this case specifically, in relation to fishing, what will happen to the Greek workers who are developing their activity in the United Kingdom? What's going to happen to our Greek sailors? There are, therefore, important threats to which the Council must be very attentive and act in legitimate defence of the sector, and in this way prevents serious prejudices in which — as we said at first — Galicia is playing its future. Finally, a long list of uncertainties in which Galicia — as we said — plays the future. Some — few — are opportunities that should not be allowed to escape, such as the revision of the principle of relative stability or the flexibility of the ban on discards. Others, the others, are threats, and there is a need for mitigating through international agreements, such as the real possibility of not being able to faenenar in British waters, the loss of flag for ships of Greek capital and also the free movement of our sailors. But in order for these opportunities to be achieved, in order for these threats to have the slightest consequences, fishing must have its own weight in negotiations and acquire special relevance in the agenda of negotiations. In any case, a long way to go that you'll need to listen to the sector and not split it. Galicia plays its present and plays its future, so it is necessary to put all possible means for this Brexit threat to become an opportunity. Do not allow fishing to be currency exchange. And as I said at the beginning, above all, with transparency. If you have reports, if you're evolving, what you have to do is share these reports with the parliamentary groups that are here, representing the sailors, the people of the sea, and also with the people of the street. Sharing and transparency, because in Galicia we all play a lot. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u80	Good for all. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Quintana. It is not the first time I have to go up to this atrium to be or try to be, at least, with all humility, a little voice in this sector — my family sector in all its arts — which is one of the basic pillars of our society, of our country, of Galicia, as much economic as — I dare say — emotionally; a sector that again feels terribly vulnerable. This time we're talking about one of the collectives that make one of the toughest and most dangerous waters of the workers of the Great Sun. The fleet of the Great Sun, along with the fleet of the Malvinas, is one of the insignificant sectors of our fishing — you know — concerning high-level fishing, and at this point it climbs to 1,800 workers and 140 ships of Italian capital which are directly affected by Brexit in this area. I am now dividing this data. I'd like to tell you that this data that I'm going to provide now comes from a meeting where information is passed to me and where I have to go for information. As the opposition comrades said, as you didn't pass us any kind of report or any kind of data to be able to have this debate in a serious way, on Friday morning I was met with researchers while members of your group, with total shame and making fun of it, said I was at the Tramabus; a Tramabus that was leaving at three o'clock. I was meeting with researchers and experts, independent technicians, with whom you say you're going to tell, who make you a startling joke at the moment when people in your group do a weak favor saying that I'm in a place I'm not instead of being with who I am, which is with independent researchers — I repeat — because to us, from the Marea Group, we like to give serious debates. Of course we have important model differences, but there are issues that are not ideological, they are common sense, and we need data to be able to give the debates in an exemplary and serious and sensible way. And I'm telling you because, in the same way that they say this, they also say some of their comrades, of their party, that they're all corrupt, that all politicians are corrupt. It will refer, above all — imaginative — to those of your group. I, of course, believe that not all of you are corrupt -- we may have many differences -- but if I think your party is corrupt, it's an accused party, and I think we have to be serious about addressing certain issues, these above all. What makes me glad is that you refer to a report to which these technical people, these independent people, who are on the page of Arvi, Sobrino Heredia's report on Brexit and its possibilities and consequences for the Galician fisheries sector, which is -- I repeat -- published on the page of Arvi. What surprises me is that you read a report from others instead of talking about the reports from the Board. This one says that Spanish or British flag ships, but from Spanish Spanish shipowners, have been doing for years in waters under sovereignty... is this your report? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It seemed like an independent report, but if it's from Join, nothing, perfect! Faenan has been in British waters of sovereignty for years. That's where the ships of Greece fish. As you will know, with Spain's entry into the European Economic Community in 1986, there was a regulation of the census which reduced the number of vessels by 300. Currently the fishing opportunities in British legal waters for ships with Spanish or German flag has decreased, so the volume of fish extracted by these low-quota boats, which then is marketed in the Greek ports, according to data provided by Arvi as well. In British waters, the 62 ships that work annually capture about 22,000 tons a year. When it comes to the Spanish fleet in the Great Sun, 140 bannermen in the United Kingdom are usually not counted, whose shipowners are Germans, most of them are Greek. The existence of a large number of British flag boats, but originals of Galicia, Spanish capital ships that frame the British flag, of which you have spoken, is a crucial data for an analysis of these issues. Under different circumstances, the British authorities tightened the granting for registration to fishing vessels in the United Kingdom, and as a result changed the regulation. This also contained the report. That report therefore states that — in addition to the withdrawal from the United Kingdom of the European Union — the possible scenario could have the following implications for the German fishing industry that owns this fleet. First of all, real possibility of losing the British flag. Secondly, it makes it difficult to access resources in British waters. Thirdly, greater cost complexity due to different regulations between the United Kingdom and the European Union. Fourthly, the increase in work due to taxation, regulation and systems. Fifthly, it is difficult to cooperate and merge with British companies. As you have already read this report and quoted it here, what we miss is knowing what the proposals of the Union and its negotiating board are going to have to carry out the Spanish State, and we hope that Galicia will have the priority voice in it. What are your proposals? Because we don't know anything about what they're going to negotiate, which is really what we wanted to talk about. We must remember that only a minority of ships resist with their own flag, with the flag of Galicia, and they had to opt for the flag of Greek-Spanish, for the British flag or for the contempt; a measure which paradoxically benefited them at first. Under the foreign flag, even if the shipowners had their origin in Galicia, European legislation allowed them to maintain a majority of German crew. But at the entry into force of Brexit we see that it radically changes this frame, and we will no longer have the freedom of the past to be able to carry on our working ships, because there will be no freedom of transit, seriously harming us. We are therefore talking about the fact that this sector may suffer from a serious setback in future negotiations, and they worry about us, seeing that almost always Galicia paints little for the PP at the state level. That party which for you is another, which is not yours, from which Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Tellado are part of the executive, but which is not the same. What we look at is that they never really defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, but we're in a condition of subalternity. With the entry into force of Brexit we find ourselves in this position where we are going to depend on its political will, and it can be, on the one hand, a moment of great prejudice to our sector and to Galicia, or it may be an opportunity for this fleet to have a good political management that is done in a sensible way, defending our people and transparency, because today we have no information about what is happening. The Government of the State and of the Union must meet the circumstances, and if they really believe in the sea as a priority sector of our economy, in renegotiating agreements both with the European Union and with the United Kingdom, they must guarantee absolutely our interests and those of our people. We're talking about an area of 1,800 workers and all their families, with an annual turnover for Galician fishing, in these areas affected by Brexit, of 240 million euros; that's directly, without counting the entire indirect economy. We agree that the United Kingdom, in principle, will have autonomy, will depend on them what they do on these issues. It is also true that, if it is necessary to confront you from the European Union, you have to have the strength to confront you from the European Union, for that you are there. But that is precisely why we must not forget that this Member State, as has already been mentioned, has enjoyed a privileged situation in the rest of the states since its accession to the European Union. Furthermore, we must not allow, precisely because it is coming out, that they take a little to the front or the negotiating guidelines. Negotiation must be joint in seeking consensus between the parties and all parties. We have vital interests for our economy, for our people, that's why we're going to be looking forward to it and defending our workers. That's why, we insist, we consider that the Spanish Government continues to be a direct negotiator when most of the fleet and most of the workers are Germans, which makes no sense. From In Marea we also consider, as a group of Galician own that defends Galician autonomy for these issues, which is Galician to lead these negotiations, which have to have the Galician and the Galician voice and which have to be defended from Galicia. You can't defend fishing from Madrid, we have to defend it from here. Furthermore, we are not going to allow fishing to be used again as a currency of exchange. We know that you have priorities for other sectors like textiles and automotive. Very relevant, of course, yes, above all are relevant to your economic model of multinationals, to the gross domestic product and to the rotational doors. But it's also true that they generate a lot less jobs, and you know it. We're talking about thousands of posts, according to official data. It generates many more places in the sea sector than these sectors that you have traditionally defended. Just like its model is to boost industrial aquaculture, which generates fewer jobs and destroys even those that exist. They can't hurt so many families in exchange for rotational doors and stand up to the partners of the European Union. And in view of that, we're going to have to face up to, to collaborate and to defend the Greeks and the Greeks in the committees. Then I'll tell you what happened in the last 8th Commission, where they show how many agreements come with us. I'm telling you in the replica because now it doesn't give me time. But what is clear is that, if you're going to fight for the interests of multinationals, you're going to face us. They're going to face us with trams and whatever it's necessary for people to know what's going on and what they're doing, who you're ruling with and who you're dealing with.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u82	I'm done. That's a reality, the sector is scared and worried about earlier negotiations with the sailors of Avenger or Long Hope, because they clearly see that they don't defend them. We hope this case doesn't happen the same, so we're going to be vigilant. If they are going to defend them truly, they will count on us; but as you will understand, given the precedent, we have little hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Carlos Enrique López Crespo has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u84	Mr. President. Companions and fellow Members, Counsellor, good morning. After listening to the previous interventions that I do not have to interpret, but to the parlour, to the Counsellor, I could say they are interventions that are in clear tune with the time we are in, which is spring: successive light and clouds; darkness and clarity. There were interventions in which they talked about positive things, but most of them were nubarrons. This has to do with, perhaps, the situation in which there are some parts of what you've been talking about here. Some of the nubarrons because they're in their spring; they're starting and it's all black. And others also all cloudy because they're in their fall, variable time too. You really don't understand how an interpretation of the advisor's appearance can be done in these terms. Of course, it is no longer understood that the answer to an audience is used to excuse an in attendance at a commission. Really, Mrs. Santos, you don't know if you went to Vigo, but if you went to Vigo you weren't with fishing people because the fishing people couldn't tell you what you said here. And if he told you, he had to say that he had his sources in the Councillor's and the Fisheries Adviser's work. That's why your gesture of surprise. And then you're assigned here, in Parliament, the representation of the sector because I have two brothers or three cousins or four guys working at sea, man, that's a little rough. I in my family have many Berbers, mussels, and I don't find myself saying I'm the representative. I, at most, am the representative of a party that works day by day to improve the welfare state of all the Greeks, and in this case of the seamen, which is very important, as we can see. [[Applause]] Your presence, Counselor, we can regard you as reassuring. It's reassuring because we're going to clear up what we're going to do in the future -- and I put it on, "this almost absolutely unknown future." We don't know that other treaties, other commitments and other bilateral agreements between Galicia and Britain can come. That's why what you told us here today made us a little more relaxed. In the face of these doubts, his intervention reassures us, in the sense that he reveals to us the possibilities of our fishing sector, and most importantly, our ability to manage these unknown consequences of Brexit through a programmed study. I take advantage to say that there would be no greater enemy for the management of the consequences of Brexit than the hyperlocalisms here treated at some point in previous interventions. In the field of the potential of our fisheries sector, you are giving us some really good information on the importance of Galicia in maritime fisheries in the European Union; it has an impact on the social and economic sphere. Listen to me, listen to me, previous spokesmen, the data. We have 50% of Spain's sea-fishing employment, 10% of the European Union; we have landed almost 70% of Spain's fresh fishing and more than 11% of the European Union; the preserve of Greece accounts for 86% of Spanish production and makes Spain the first production zone in the European area and the second in the world after Thailand. Greek aquaculture produces 14% of the European total. That's what Mrs. Counsellor said in her presence. These are important data that talk about potential from the sector in our Galicia and give us strength to keep negotiating. These data justify the work you're developing your advice to reaffirm in front of Madrid -- they hear me well -- and to refer to Brussels. It's not to assert itself, it's to reaffirm itself, as this advisor has already done before. You referred to other data with greater connection between Galicia and the United Kingdom. The Galician fishing fleet in British waters — dino but pass over — 66 Spanish flag boats with 800 crews; 25 Greek capital ships and 240 British flag. About a thousand direct workers on those ships. But then there's also the Welsh fishing fleet in the Malvinas: 15 Spanish flag boats with 600 crew members. In total, 250 million direct billing and around 1,500 workers. These are important elements that make us work and study to make good management of Brexit. We also have another important fact, of what the Counsellor spoke about in her presence as regards the trade relationship between Britain and Spain. We have to have exports from Spain to the United Kingdom of 28 million, of which 10 are from Galicia. And exports from the United Kingdom to Spain are EUR 192 million, of which 70 are from Galicia. In front of all these data that demonstrate the importance and relevance of the Galician fisheries sector and the possible changes operated by Brexit, you offer us in your presence an eloquent roadmap about what you've already done, about what you're already doing and about what you're going to do. Someone here already asks you what's going to happen, we're still starting negotiations! The involvement of the entire board and the president of the board; the involvement of the Galego Fisheries Council, which has shown its opinion in favour of the programmed since the Council; the commitment of the board to always count on the Galego Fisheries Council; all studies, reports, the work done on this important issue of Brexit will have to be collected and valued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Food and the Environment, by Spain's permanent representation before the European Union, by the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries itself of the European Union, the famous and well-known DG MARE. All of this will not prevent the economic impact and the effects on each sector of the marine industry chain. That is why we also value that report of what you have said, which is being drawn up under the coordination of Professor Maria do Carme García Negro, on aspects of the economic impact of fishing on the economy and, in this case, on Brexit. We are sure that, by the end of the year, their activity will be intense both on our land and abroad. Here, with the Galego Fisheries Council and this commission which was created on purpose within the Galego Fisheries Council; with the University of Galicia, with Cetmar, with the General Fisheries Secretariat and the corresponding ministries. You will be in Brussels in the Councils of Fisheries Ministers, in the European Commission, in the European Parliament within the Committee on Fisheries and in a number of countries which will also be affected by Brexit, and you will have to be in their hands in order to teach them our ears and teeth too. We know that you, while you listen to her, will be talking. But he's going to be talking about arguments based on legal studies, social studies, economic studies, technical and environmental studies, and also based on his interventions in the rights that correspond to us as Galicia is a power in that sector, with a world leader who will diminish all possible evasive and negative consequences of Brexit. The Companions of the People's Party also like their appearance to compromise with this Parliament. Someone didn't hear him. You said clearly: the commitment that you will come to this Parliament quarterly to speak in a monographic committee about Brexit. Dear fellow spokespersons of the BNG, the PSOE and En Marea, undertakes to bring a monographic commission on a quarterly basis. Counselor, today in the People's Group, we are calmer. We were there, knowing her, but after her appearance, we stayed more for the clarification she offers us, where we can see a work program that will give its fruit. Count on us, that's our job. But it's also the pride of being able to work for something that the good sure will improve the situation of our seafarers. Tell us about you, tell us about the president of the board in such a delicate matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u85	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs. Mar's counsellor, Mrs. Rosa Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr. Crespo, for your words. The truth is, after hearing the representatives of the other groups, I have a certain taste that I don't even know how to qualify. It gives the impression that I'm expressing myself very badly, that I'm not explaining myself well and that I'm not able to move everything that we're working on, and that we want to keep working on the future. You have the feeling, sometimes, that this rostrum is simply used as a political weapon, not as I understand it must be the house of the people, which is the defense of the interests of all citizens. I've come here today to explain what we're doing on Brexit's subject. I've seen what we've already done and the steps we want to take in the future. I have come to seek the support of all the honourable Members of this Parliament to work together to defend the interests of a sector which I understand is key to Galicia's social and economic development. In exchange for that, I found nothing but reproach. I can understand the reproach in all directions, but what one thing is said and the opposite is when I stay on the stairs I don't know if I go up or down. I'm supposed to come here and say we're working to find the arguments that believe the power of the marine-fishing sector in Galicia, and it's said that it already knows everyone. After listening to some of the people who spoke in this gallery, I have to say that the fact is that they don't have very clear the weight of our sector, because they handle the data regardless of the paragraph they're reading at every moment. It was said here that Denmark was the first fishing power of the European Union. For the data say that Spain drops 18% of the total catches of the European Union and Denmark 13% — I suppose 18% is more than 13% — but this has to be put on paper and it has to be believed with studies so that people can have a clearer and clearer picture of the Greek fishing sector within the European Union. We're working hard. I'm guessing that Brexit's report doesn't know him, that they have reports from independent technicians. Look, I've been a civil service officer for 30 years. I work with a lot of technicians, and I always ask technicians for independence. The political decisions take the politicians, for that we have our responsibility, but the technicians, regardless of what they are, what they think and what they decide to vote on each one at the time, while they are developing their technical work, have to be independent. I assumed it all, and I never looked at the political color of any technician in order to work with them. I've always looked for those who knew the industry best so they could help us find the weight arguments to defend our interests. And I tell them honestly: we need from Galicia to defend the Greek fishing sector with the best arguments, and that's where we are. I think they exposed in my first intervention all the steps we're going to take. And when we question Galicia's political weight for defending the interests of the fisheries sector, I believe that in my first intervention it was clear that in the second half of this year we will have the responsibility to represent all the autonomous communities in the Councils of Ministers, throughout the course of meetings that I intend to hold with all the representatives of the fisheries sector in all the countries of the European Union and with all the organisations representing the fisheries sector. I think that I made it quite clear in my first intervention. Because from minute one, when the United Kingdom made the decision to leave the European Union, we decided in Galicia that fishing could not be used as a currency of exchange, as was done in 1986, when Spain entered the European Union. I ask them a little bit of rigour, and when they say things, they look as they say. The report that Professor Sobrino Heredia made is a report that was delivered to the entire plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council. Moreover, Professor Sobrino himself was invited to explain this to the plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council, where all sectors of the Galician sea-industrial chain are represented. And after Professor Sobrino's exhibition, all that citizen who asked us for Brexit's report had him at his disposal. I'm glad it was said here that it's a good report and that it looks at many aspects because they reviewed it on Arvi's website. I have to say that the report that's hanging out on Arvi's website is the report that moved you to Galicia's board, in the plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council, to the entire fishing sector of Galicia. It is a report which analyses the various possibilities that can be given to us when we renegotiate the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union. And from there on, that's the basic document that gives us the opportunity to go through each of the steps that are going to be taken when the United Kingdom negotiates its exit. What we have achieved so far is the statements by whom you have appointed the European Commission as the head of negotiation; a gentleman who has nothing more and nothing less been Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries of the European Union, which is already giving the importance that the European Union now gives to these primary sectors in the negotiation of divorce. Our duty is to help those who have appointed the European Commission as negotiator so that they have the greatest data so that fishing will not be harmed. When you say here you have to look at the issue of relative stability -- I announced it in my first intervention -- of course you have to look at it!, what you have to look at is the moment when you look at it, and this has also talked to the sector itself. And with the association of professionals in the European Union's fisheries sector, the decision we are addressing is: at the moment we do not touch the so-called principle of relative stability to prevent the United Kingdom from asking for quotas at its current level. Let us hope that the United Kingdom of the European Union will leave to negotiate those 27 remaining, because when changing the rules of play, the distribution must also be different. But by that aspect and by some other, as are the species of strangulation. If we change the rules of play, we must also have sufficient capacity to address that, with these new rules of play, percentages of splits have to be different. It's said here: don't divide the sector. There are certain phrases that you've made fashionable and now believe that they're already defending the sector. Who divides the sector here? Who's looking for good and bad in the sector? Of course, I can look at all of you. I've never worked to divide the Greek fishing sector, quite the opposite! On the contrary! I've always defended that the best thing the Greek fishing sector could do is have strong organizations, although, having strong organizations, it's harder for the politician in front of the board to be able to work with them. [[Applause]] But for the sake of the sector, it's best that they have strong organizations, and on that line I've always worked. Others are in charge of dividing, and classifying good and bad according to whether I meet more with them or less. I, in my office, my doors are open to everyone. I've always worked for the union of the sector. They are all represented at the Galician Fisheries Council. I don't choose the representatives of the Galician Fisheries Council. And here it's fashionable to say that it doesn't divide the sector, and you'll be fine. It's fashionable to say that we haven't had the Brexit report. Did anyone worry about Brexit until today I came here? Did anyone worry? [[Murmurs.]] Man, I don't know if anyone's worried. Of course, I have no request for a report. I have no request for a meeting. I have no position for defending the interests of the fishing sector by either of these three groups that now say they are so worried because I haven't sent them the Brexit report. I found only statements by Ana Miranda, who I think is not in Congress, the Senate, the European Parliament or here, where she said that relative stability had been reviewed. They were the only statements. Maybe I'm wrong, uh, but I just check everything that has to do with the fishing world. And of course, since we don't care much about Brexit or we haven't worried about having that report until today, because we're using the climb up here to say that we pull the yard, the accidental fishing, that we divide the sector, that we don't have political weight... and of course, look, we won't have political weight, but since the year 2012 the increases in fishing opportunities are producing year after year. We won't have political weight, but the president of the board, in 2009, was quite clear, when he constituted his government, who would be the councillor of the Sea World. He didn't need to have fights either up or down, and the Sea Council was qualified at the same level as the rest of the board. When you wanted to form a government during the Bipartite era, the Fisheries Council was the last one to decide who would take it because no one wanted it. That's sad, huh, that's sad! I didn't see a fight at that time to say: I want to take the Fisheries Council. No, no. When a few months ago, at the central level, if you were to be able to make a government of the opposition against the People's Party, the Ministry of Health was asked, the Ministry of Business was asked, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was asked, asked, asked, asked... I haven't heard anyone ask for the Ministry of Fisheries. No one! No one! That's right, once we're in the opposition, what we're most interested in is fishing and what we're most interested in are independent technicians. [[Applause]] Independent technicians, all of them. I can tell you something. I've said it many times before, but of course, what I say seems uninterested to them. Then, as they follow with their sledgehammer, they continue to beat on the same day after day and year after year. In 2009, when I was just arriving at the council, on a visit to a certain port of the Coast of Death, he told me that a shipowner who was very sad that when the garden arrived in Galicia she could no longer fish her because others had exhausted her cup. I understood he was right and I got to work, and we got him. And today Galicia has its own coupon. So the sector said that if we had 20% of the total fishing potential for garden, we'd be fine. And we don't have 20%, we have 26%. We have to think about why when we go fishing, when our shipowners or our sailors go fishing, comes in a box of yards and they have to take it out. That's because we still have a lot to improve in the management model we have and for changing certain customs. Because there are certain shipowners and sailors who continue with the mania to catch the fishing opportunities of Galicia at the time they're also fishing for it in the Basque Country and Cantabria. At that moment it's at least worth the garden, but we're running out of quotas. And when the yard comes to Galicia, which is when it's bigger and, of course, has greater value, shipowners and sailors who don't have ships big enough to leave, unfortunately, can't capture the yard. So we already have a solution for everyone to be able to fish for the garden, what we have is to be modifying those management models, and on this line I'm working in a way that follows the sector. There's no good and bad sector, I'm not dividing the sector, quite the opposite. The only thing that has to be the sector is aware that at sea we don't have to go for many kilograms of fish, but what we have to go for is for many kilograms of euros. Improve our management in the exploitation of our resources. I can only tell you that I exposed my line of work to my first intervention. I'm going to try to count on anyone who wants to add up in defense of our arguments. I will try to find allies in all the fishing regions of the European Union. And I understand that everything that is open to us can be a threat or a possibility. I'll work so it's a chance. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u87	Thank you very much, Counselor. We now open the possibility of opening a special round of double government clarifications. Mrs Prado Cores has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u88	Mrs. Quintana, I don't know what you're surprised about. He just made a very compound intervention, as if you could come here as a commentator and give us a report on the reports he's in charge, as if you weren't politically responsible for fishing in our country since... this is the third legislation. It seems like a strange thing. And why is he surprised at the skepticism with which we are receiving his exposure? Because with the background that is so far about the negotiations and the weight that you have been able to do to defend our country's sector, it is certainly not to be satisfied at all, it is not to be satisfied! The background is simply to be at least concerned. I asked him what political weight you're willing to do as fishing officer, and the president of the Galician Union, to defend directly the interests of Galicia. The first question, are you prepared to urge the Spanish Government that Galicia is directly present defending the interests of the Welsh fishing? Are you ready to do that? Because if you're willing to do that, then I'll start to believe that something you said here about the reports and the others will go to the right port. As long as they are unwilling to exercise Government of this country, to defend the interests of this country directly, the rest is to tell others to take care of our interests, and we must take care of ourselves, Counsellor. That's what I saw you here today from this gallery, that you'll have the BNG behind you always and when you're willing to fight directly, really, by the sector. If they're willing to, don't tell her we do. You're doing here a scene that you've already repeated, Counselor. He's doing the staging here every year. When this European Union imposes on us tacs and indecent coupons, it turns out it tells us that they're going to cut us by 50, it's all an alarm. You go there and it turns out it's negotiations. Everything's fine; tell us it's going to arrive at 12 o'clock in the evening. In the end, instead of 50, it's 30, which adds to the 10th of the year before or 20th of the other, and it turns out we have to be happy because instead of 50, they're just cutting us off a little bit. He's doing exactly the same thing. You came here today, Counselor, to illustrate the serious problems that Brexit can mean and of which is the power of the sector in Galicia. I told him we already know what the sector's power in Galicia is and what the risks are. What we don't know is that you're willing to do the German Government about it. How much political weight are you willing to excite, Mrs. Quintana? That's what I ask you -- I asked you before, and I asked you again now -- to see if you answer me, because BNG, of course, is willing to stand behind the industry. And I have to tell you something. I have more confidence in the ability of the sector itself to defend interests, and that that means that the result is not so harmful to this country, than in the management of the German Government itself, because, of course, through past experiences you can't say that you have turned around to defend the sector. I told you before, Galicia's problem isn't that we lack fishing resources or that there's no biological wealth in our creeks. The problem of Galicia and Welsh fishing has nothing to do with the fact that seafarers are not prepared or trained or have enough capacity or innovation, both in ships and technological innovation. The problem of the Galician Sea is a political problem, Counselor. It is that lack of sovereignty, that lack of decision-making, that need to beg others who defend us instead of being able to defend ourselves. The question of Galicia is the problem of the principle of relative stability. The problem of Greek fishing is the principle of relative stability which was established on the basis of interests which were not the Greek interests. We can see how, for example, the Faeroe Islands leave the European Union, from Denmark, and they have 12% coupons, while the Spanish State has 7% and Galicia has the crumbs of that 7%. And you're here to say we've grown up. Come out of your chest saying yes, that we have been increasing capacity in quotas in recent years. Starting from what position, Mrs. Quintana? Starting from what position? I'm asking you here is political courage to exercise of the German Government and say that if there is, for example, a territory like the Faroe Islands that has 12% quota, if Denmark has 40%, Galicia has to have what it deserves according to its potential, Mrs Quintana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u90	That you are able to say loud and clear that the new distribution model established in 2014 is harmful to our fishing boat as far as garden. That you can say it loud and clear, that you don't come here to blame the sector. How brave you are, Mrs. Quintana, to come here to say that the sector goes to sea for kilos, instead of for money! How stupid they were! As if they weren't willing, Mrs. Quintana said it here, in parliamentary headquarters, and it was said to the Death Coast. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u91	Finish, please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u92	He repeated again on the Coast of Death that we must go to sea for money and not for kilograms. But won't they know, Mrs. Quintana? What are you doing in the face of that situation? What are you doing? What are you doing, while it turns out that the sector has to throw away the yard that accidentally messes with it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u93	Mrs. Prado, thank you very much. You've outlived your time, Mrs. Prado. Thank you very much for your intervention. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mrs Toja Suárez has the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. It's very self-centered, Counselor, considering that the importance of things is measured according to whether you are asked for a meeting or not. [[Applause]] At the last meeting of the Committee on Fisheries, we asked for a meeting with the bosses of the Arousa River, who had been waiting for two years, and voted against. And look, it matters to us. Here's our initiative on April 6, a written question that hasn't answered us, where we ask questions as to which steps the Government has taken in relation to Brexit: if it has conducted some management with the Government of Spain, with the Government of the United Kingdom, etc. It's registered, so it's an important issue for us. And there are others. [[Applause]] I'll tell you something. We must not be persuaded by the parliamentary groups of the importance of fishing or by Mr Crespo, because he will say yes. The one who has to convince is Europe and the one who has to convince is Spain of the importance of fishing, not us. We know how important fishing for Galicia is. You've made here a triumphalist reading of what Galicia is supposed to be fishing. You have to defend him like that against Spain and Europe. And we share the concern Brexit poses, which is one of the biggest challenges they have right now at the council office, in the next few days, and in the Greek sector. That's why our position is clear. We will support negotiations as long as they improve the situation for the Greek sector, and that is why we need clarity. That is to say, positions are known, that the sector knows it, that it is shared, clarity, that it does not cause conflict or division in the sector. Let us say the same thing again: it does not divide the sector, that fishing is not currency, that it is part of the negotiating agenda, that progress is stable and consistent and that we resolve the uncertainty of those living on the sea. Because we're at the end of the day, the sea is people who live in fishing. When we talk about changing the principle of relative stability, when we talk about flexibility in the discard model, when we talk about international agreements that allow us to continue with activity, as we always talk about people, people who develop work in a highly dangerous area and which involves spending many times long periods away from the family, and those people what they want is that they act in legitimate defence of the sector and in the defence of the German sector before Brexit. And with regard to the legal opinion that the University of Coruña has developed, the legal opinion also leaves it duty to do. When I advise you in the first subparagraph that the United Kingdom wants negotiations before notifying the withdrawal, it clearly states that it is not accepted. Point by point, ten points where you make your duties very clear. Finally, Galicia plays a lot, plays its present and plays its future as well. It does not divide the sector, fishing cannot be currency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. Mrs Santos Queiruga has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u96	Thank you very much. First of all, Counsellor, thank you for your gratitude for the independence of technicians and experts. As I said, we consider this type of report essential for the execution of a protocol of collaboration between the Rural Environment Council and bodies as it may be, in this case, the University Institute... Counsellor of the Sea... Sorry, what happens is that the protocol says: a protocol of collaboration between the Rural Environment Council and the Sea, which was the previous one, but that's what makes it so in the report, so I read it that way. That's the protocol previously signed, not that you signed it. He was already there, wasn't he? Was that what you were up to? That's why you'll know it's signed earlier. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's ridiculous indeed. It's ridiculous to be arguing about it just like it's ridiculous to be talking to Mr. Crespo about whom I've been gathered with. I haven't been with sailors, I'll repeat that I've been with experts. Besides, I'm going to tell you textual words that commented on the information we have: Let's assume that what happens with Brexit will depend on the agreements that arrive, and since that only interests Spain-Galicia, we don't see this negotiation optimistically. Well, these are the things I talked about. I understand you're upset. They say we're in the spring, in the autumn... who's in the winter, in the storm, with a black cloud on top, is the People's Party, and they want to divert the attention of the functioning and the changes in a commission, which is usual. You — I am younger in this Parliament than you — know that they usually do so, that they usually use it, and what they don't want is to talk about the corruption of the People's Party. That's what bothers you, talking about that rotting thing that's inside your ranks. Going back to the subject, of course, I don't raise myself in the voice of any sector, neither me nor anyone in our group, but we defend the interests of the people who vote for us and that we represent, just like you should do the same. If you have family involved in the sector, you should know first and foremost the situation that is going on, the debts that you have, which are drowned, the persecutions of the inspection bodies themselves of the Galician Union, which are also the same vessels. We will also have to ask in committee this Parliament to give us a relationship, for the sake of transparency, of the vessels that are fined and the percentage of fines that they have, because it turns out that they are just the ones that have made the most opposition to the advisor or the councillor who, at least, transmit to us — but it must be our imagination, that we speak to the angels and we do not talk to people — who feel persecuted and beaten beyond the subject of the garden, which they also conveyed to us. Actually, what the industry says is that you don't do anything for them and you don't do anything for anyone. They kill the little ones, while the corrupt don't just go into jail, but nothing happens to them at all. Coincidence, many of them are from the People's Party! Because here we're talking about the drawbacks of our group when we haven't been charged. We don't have an appointment as an organization or a group. I mean those charged with corruption, which is the serious one. We live in a very serious situation and we're talking about other things. I understand you're upset and you no longer know, and you end up making the ridiculous, of course you end up making the ridiculous, the hideous ridiculous! And they should fall in the shame that what's going on in this country, and what's going on, if they're laughing when people don't reach the end of the month. Yes, they should fall in shame, because because because of many differences in nuances that we can have these groups that you say we are so Gothic, at least we don't steal! At least in our ranks, we don't have people who steal. We're not all corrupt, that's going to be at PP. That will be the People's Party [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u97	Please keep the silence. If anyone wants to talk, he can go outside. And pay attention to who is in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u98	I repeat that this issue is of great transcendence, so don't divert it from other things that nothing has to do with it. They agree with the sector, the technicians and the people who live indirectly in the sea sector, and it's very serious. Therefore, Counsellor, I ask you to be genuinely involved; to defend Galicia; to take the lead of negotiation both within the European Union and within the Government of the State; to make our weight worth. And we find it hard to believe that we're going to be taken into account by the same thing that the companion of the PSdEG said the other day, that we support the PSdEG initiative with regard to that meeting of the patterns of Arousa. And comrade Juan Merlo also made a proposal in this commission to create a manager composed of all the parts affected by Brexit, to consensualize measures, which was rejected by the People's Party. And we urged the Galician P.P., the Government of the Union, to urge the Government of the State. You have to put pressure on it, of course! You have to put pressure on us to defend Galicia because competition is state. Of course they do, they have to make use! What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u99	Quiet, please. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u100	We're talking about what we're talking about. And besides — I repeat — at least a little bit of stink. I repeat for the last time, a little bit of stink, because with which it's falling, really...! If they want, we're talking about Venezuela, but the ridiculous can already be stratospheric.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u101	Thank you. Mr López Crespo has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u102	Yes, president. Counselor, of your little appearance I'll say. I've already said at first that we agree very much. But remind me of frustration. It's a psychological process through which the subject feels powerless to achieve the proposed goal. In case of a student on a test he already thinks he's going to suspend. [[Laughter]] Sometimes he's got resources. The teacher's mad at me. He's made it very difficult. The Fisheries Council finds itself in the face of a very difficult examination, but an examination must have been prepared. Then it started last July, it continues now and will continue for the next few months, as long as necessary. Mrs. Toja, don't be afraid, negotiation will be tough but preparation will be very good. Inside that racket of preparations, we have a judge here. I'm sure he spent many nights, afternoons and mornings studying. I'm sure he still put ice stones on his feet so he wouldn't sleep, and then he went out ahead. [[Murmurs.]] And surely his parents, his uncles or his grandparents said: Our Villares is the best. So everyone says our advisor and advisor are the best to get the best results from the Brexit exam that will put us in the European Union! [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] Mrs. BNG's spokesperson, actually, today she lost a little bit of paper in the end, she got too angry. He put on very drunk summits, really. The situation of seafarers in Galicia has improved: it has improved the amount of money it brings to its home, it has improved the level of biological security in its work, it has improved the level of legal security in its concessions and permits. To deny this is to put at the edge of frustration to the advisor, and we can't do that either. I really... Mrs. Santos, I look at you and I tell you the name. You're close to the beginning of your political career. Please, when you're talking about corruption, when you're going through that latrine where the People's Party is, look at us in the face of the 42 that we're here. Look at our name, our family, our political trajectory, and, after that, speak with property. [[Murmurs.]] There are people in the People's Party who are completely corrupt. Look at us face to face and let's say, yes. But we also tell him that in the People's Party there are people with an immaculate trajectory after many years. We know very well what corruption is and we know very well how to avoid it, why do you think there have been no episodes of corruption in the last eight years of the Unity of Galicia? There were no episodes of corruption you refer to! Well, there's no very simple reason for that, because Mr. Feijóo knows that corruption in public life is prevented in two ways: controlling the procedure and controlling the expenditure. And that's what the Galician Union does very well, so there are no episodes of corruption. And that's what we do in the People's Party and we're delighted to do it. I could now put on a list of municipalities in Galicia ruled the last forty, thirty or twenty years by the People's Party without any problem. And others, ruled by other parties, have problems too. No, I'm talking about people who have been around for a long time, to whom you've spent little time as mayor I can't categorized it as mayor. Some have only spent a few months, and I give him all the shine of his career. I'm talking about people who've been around for a long time. Please don't keep talking about the corruption of the People's Party in that contempt and immersion tone, because it's not a tone of immersion. We know what corruption is and we want to avoid it. We pursue it when it happens, but we want to avoid it. I've never heard you talk about avoiding corruption. I've always heard of pursuing it. Why? Because they identify the persecuted with the enemy; and there he made a good allusion in the morning the spokesman for Education. They don't relate the enemy to the persecuted. Avoid it and we'll end corruption in politics. I'm sorry, I've drifted a lot but I'm outraged. My letter from the golf game that I've been playing in politics, I've got no one left. [[Murmurs.]] And not me, the 42 we're here and the 100,000 affiliates of the Galician People's Party. If they all did the same thing, we'd be better off. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. López Crespo. You have the word of Mrs. Sea Counsellor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Crespo, stay calm, you won't get me frustrated. I love the fishing industry very much to frustrate me. This is what gives me the desire to keep working, because I see that either we or the rest are not going to defend the sector. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, I'm told I'm coming here as a commentator. No, look, no, I don't come here as a commenter. [[Applause]] When I come here I come with data, and what is measurable is not opinable. And when I'm told that I'm coming here first and I say, alas, that we're going down 50%, and then we're not getting down. But do you know how this works? [[Murmurs.]] Can you come here and say these things? [[Murmurs.]] The position of the Council, before the negotiations of the month of December, is that according to the scientific reports that arrive at them, they make a proposal for fishing opportunities for the following year. I'm not the one who says we're going down 50 percent later, when we get there, to negotiate and get there I don't know what. No, no, no. Mrs. Prado, you think you were delegated in the times of the Bipartite and you should know how this works. Of course! [[Murmurs.]] When you tell me I come here to assume that, and that I came up with respect to that, for let me make it very easy. It is that in the time that you ruled — thanks to God was very small — we lost 44% of the fishing opportunities. In the time we have been ruling, we have increased fishing opportunities by 55%. Then it makes me very easy! [[Applause]] Here, instead of frustrated, what they do to me is create more needs to keep working. [[Applause]] And this is not opinable, it is. How are we working? We said it from minute one: with data, with arguments, without mounting algorithms in the streets — no, no, no, things are arranged inside the house, not in the street. And when the European Union makes its proposal to download certain percentages of fishing opportunities for species that are necessary to us, what we are looking for is the arguments to justify the unnecessary fall of those percentages. And then we got satisfied? I'm telling you, no! We're just trying, year after year, to increase our fishing opportunities, and that's what we've been doing. And that's why today I can say, when you tell me they increased with respect to that: to which you have left us, simple and plain. The data are there, the year 2016 was the year of historical record of discharge of all species in the ports of Galicia and of billing of those downloads in ports of Galicia. So that's a data you can consult on our website. I'll never be able to accuse myself of concealing data, lack of transparency, lack of rigour. On the contrary, I place great value on the work of scientists, give great value to the work of technicians and give great value to the information I receive every day from the sector. And when we talk here that we stand against the constitution of a working group... let's be serious! We do not come here to defend the interests of fishing on the 8th day of the Commission or on the day that there is plenary session in Parliament and I come here; we always defend fishing. You have representatives in Congress and you have representatives in the Senate. I planted the need in those cameras to create that working group in Spain because here in Galicia we already have it. When you ask me for Galician political positioning, I tell you everything. And he's from the President of the Union to the entire team of the Council of the Sea working to defend the interests of fishing, Galicia and, of course, Spain. And as they say an image is worth more than a thousand words, look at today's press. Yesterday there was a Consultative Council in Madrid, which discussed something as necessary for Spanish and Spanish fishing as is the regulation of technical measures under discussion in the European Union. How many autonomous communities have attended Madrid to defend the interests of their fishing? Galicia, the only autonomous community. Then we all give a lot of importance to fishing. Then we all say that the minister must not know that... who is supporting the minister, man! But what did we come here to say?Oh, my God! Work, because to go to Madrid, it's true, you have to take the things studied and you have to know what you're looking for. And, look, in order to assist the Government of Spain in defending the interests of the Welsh fisheries sector, Galicia first examined the proposal for a regulation of technical measures within the Council. And once we analyze it, we raise it to the Galician Fisheries Council. At the Galician Fisheries Council we set up a working group, and that working group has drawn up a statement on the proposal to amend this regulation. That statement was unanimously adopted at the plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council and, once we unanimously approved it, we referred it to the Ministry's General Fisheries Secretariat, referred it to the Ambassador of the Reper in the European Union, referred it to the European Parliament's Committee on Fisheries and referred it to the Committee on Fisheries of the Council of the European Union. What did we do next? We asked one of the Members of the People's Party in Brussels to choose him to be the rapporteur of that working group because it was very important for us. So Mr. Gabriel Mato asked to be the rapporteur of this working group. We invited Gabriel Mato from Galicia to come here to meet with the sector and that was the sector directly explaining to him what the problems were facing us with those proposed amendments to that regulation. And today we can say that the vast majority of the proposals that came out of the Greek fisheries sector will be collected in that amended regulation. Of course, to say whether we have political weight, we first have to work a lot, and that's sometimes what we don't want to do. It's easier to say: you don't divide the sector. No, no, no, don't worry. I'll never work to divide the sector. In my past trajectory, there is everything I've been doing to try to achieve, in all the links of the sea-industry chain, the best possible organization in this sector. I don't need you to come and tell me here two years later, that I have to meet with the biggest bosses in the Arousa River. My schedule is public and everyone knows how many meetings I have with them. There are some who... finally, I'm going to keep quiet not to give rise to bad interpretations, because it seems that I'm here that I divide between good and bad and I don't know how much. If I'm going to visit the confrereries, it's because I want a political projection. If I'm not going to visit the confrereries, it's because I don't know what. The truth is, I'm going to keep working as I've always done, no matter how good or bad it seems to you. It's just a clarification, Mrs Prado, because, of course, here we said we don't need to study to know how important fishing is in Galicia. Yes, we need it, and every time you talk in this gallery, I reaffirm myself more in the need to have that data. You see, in NAF Spain it has 10% of the fishing opportunities and the Faeroe Islands have 2.3 % of fishing opportunities. That's the data! [[Murmurs.]] And now you can say what it looks like, because here said the Faeroe Islands had a lot more fishing possibilities than Spain. Well, these things don't help, I'm telling you the truth, honestly. When we are going to negotiate in Brussels we have to be strict and we all have to know what we're talking about, and that's what I'm asking you here, just. Mrs Toja referred to a parliamentary question that she asked and was registered on April 6. That parliamentary question has just been published in Parliament's Bulletin; you will, of course, have your answer. I think it's very nice that you ask that question, just with a year's delay with respect to when we started working with Brexit. But of course it seems to me that... yes, yes, registered on April 6. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we'll answer it, regardless of whether they thought about it a year after we started the jobs and the studies. Ladies and gentlemen, I come here to say what we have done so far, what we are doing and what we will do in the future. I propose that you hold meetings every semester of the 8th Commission to examine all the steps we are going to take. That's the line we're going to keep working on, defending the interests of our sector and supporting our sector. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u105	Thank you very much, Counselor. After this show, we suspended the session until the 16th, the time when we will start the afternoon session.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u106	We resume the session with the fourth item on the agenda, which is motions. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to subsidies and aid to local authorities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u107	Two amendments were tabled to this motion: one from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and one from the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u108	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group today brings the motion that comes from the inquiry made in the previous plenary on subsidies to local authorities in Greece. As you well know, the municipalities lack adequate funding to meet the competences that grant them laws. They assume improper competences without the necessary funding, neither by the State nor by the autonomous communities, in order to exercise those powers. The autonomy of local authorities collected in the laws is in many cases conditioned by the will of other administrations, who decide which of their budgetary priorities should be in these municipalities. And most of the call for grants or aid conditions the local authorities' own policies, being forced to go to these calls without in many cases having resources to be able to finance other types of policies that they need to implement depending on their territory, their population or their potential. In Article 25.1 of the Act, the municipality itself speaks of the competences of the municipalities and says that the municipality, for the management of its interests and within the scope of its competence, can promote activities and provide the public services which contribute to meeting the needs and aspirations of the neighbouring community in accordance with the provisions of this article. Subsequently, paragraph 25.2 indicates which are the competences. And in the 26th, it sets out the services that must be provided according to its population. But in practice they cannot develop this autonomy enshrined in the laws. Socialists have on several occasions reiterated that the current system of subsidies of the Galician Union is an obsolete and cacical system, not respecting local autonomy, is not adapted to a modern and progressive society of the 21st century, does not contain a territorial rebalancing plan for our country, does not care about the coverage of basic services for all citizenship regardless of where it lives, does not meet the objective of transparency and objectivity under the law of transparency and good Government of Galicia, and does not respect the Galician Grants Act, which in its article 19 says that the ordinary procedure of granting grants will be dealt with in a competitive competition regime. [[Applause]] It's a system that favors those of their own political colour. The People's Party on Galician Union does not rule for all. Last week we had an appearance at Commission 1st, on our own request, in which the Government came to explain to us the lines of collaboration between the Autonomic Administration and the representation of the local entities treated at the meeting of the Galician Local Cooperation Commission on 20 April. The Government has come to inform us that it has been eight years of uninterrupted government of the People's Party and it takes seven years to convene the Galician Local Cooperation Commission, which, in addition, they themselves recognize as a forum for debate on the issues affecting municipalism; and they expressed their enthusiasm for convening the commission after seven years. We are also told by the Government that the Local Cooperation Fund has maintained during the eight years that there were more financial problems, but the reality is that in 2005 the Local Cooperation Fund was some more than 80 million, in 2009 it increased by 40 million — in four years — to almost 120 million, and in 2017 the county is practically the same. But besides, two million of this Local Cooperation Fund are to subsidise the other star measure announced to us by the president of the Galician Union four years ago: the merger of municipalities. We socialists are not against the merger of the municipalities by principle, but we believe that these have to be done with a rigorous study and not as a measure of improvisation and propaganda which will end all the evils of the Galician municipality. Therefore, if the Local Cooperation Fund is left with that county dedicated to these mergers, we still have quite less to share among all the municipalities. By the way, at some point, we will be told how much the total number of approaches that took the merged municipalities of the various public administrations and how much they assumed for saving, efficiency and effectiveness in the provision of services to citizenship. The government also informs us of the low compliance of the local pact. They have only assumed maintenance costs for primary education centres at a minimum percentage, and they agree, in that Galician Local Cooperation Commission, which took seven years to convene, that they would assume 12 centers whose fuel is biomass. Even today, they haven't paid the maintenance costs of all health centres. So they informed us that day, 49 are now assumed, they're now going to assume 18 and we don't know when those who are left. The Grumirs, now called GES, are still not real emergency relief groups, and they are still meeting their fundamental requirement, which is to reach the populations where fire stations don't arrive. By the way, the Vice-President and Counsellor commented in the previous plenary session in this House that in the local pact signed in 2016 there were many joint committees. But, look, it's just at this meeting that they just convened after seven years I count six working groups for seven advisors. Maybe the working group doesn't mean the same thing as the joint committee, but it seems to me that the meaning is practically the same. I'd like him to be here to make it clear. We are also urged by the Government to the star measure of the President of the Galician Union and that on the same day of the Galician Commission for Local Cooperation announces to us, expressing contempt and insult to all municipalities: they intend to once again to protect the autonomy of the municipalities, to reduce by themselves the weak financial resources of the local entities, such as the IBI's collection, and to compare the Greek municipalities with the Portuguese municipalities. And I'm sure this is not the cause, because, one out of two, either manifests a total ignorance of the two realities or manifests an absolute contempt for the Greek municipalities. It also announces compensation for the municipalities. And let's ask you again: will they be the same as those of the IAE, will they be the same as how you distribute the subsidies, i.e., discreetly and giving them to whom you think they deserve it? Answer us, please. In any event, in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we will be in favour of you drawing up a country development plan that encourages the establishment of companies in those empty or low-employment business parks, so that they stop giving up toxins and start producing wealth in our country, which we need. It's urgent for us to survive. If this measure is associated with cutting the cost of the business floor, it would be crucial to create jobs, grow our economy and fight against depopulation and emigration, especially from the youth population, which we are suffering from in our country. They adopt a plan and implement these measures. The Socialists will support that plan. And by the way, I have to correct the Vice-President of the Board about his intervention in the previous plenary session, in which he said that in terms of employment, competences had their councils. I would tell you or ask you, please, to review the laws of local regime bases, because, as far as I know — I insist — the competences are from the Council of Galicia. Fegamp has just published a document containing an executive summary of the review commission for the study of proposals and measures to reform the regulations governing local farms. And I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, which are the demands of the councils. They demand a law that regulates the financing of local entities through participation in the autonomous Community's own income. They call for the progressive abolition of subsidies from own funds from the Autonomous Community for local authorities through the gradual integration of certain subsidies into the Local Cooperation Fund. They ask that, for those subsidies to be maintained, objective criteria be established and consistent with local authorities for their distribution to allow the participation of all municipalities on an equal footing. They call on the Union to assume the services of its competence currently provided by local entities, and partially financed through transfers; to provide for instruments to allow for an annual overview of the total transfers received by local entities in Galicia and to establish measures to balance the annual allocation received by each of them; to establish mechanisms to allow for the simplification and speeding up of the procedures; and, in the case of transfers of capital from the Galician Union, to be developed through specific funds through the maintenance of the rural PEN and the environmental fund, and to create an annual fund for infrastructures formed by capital transfers to the Greek municipalities; to amend the Law regulating local holdings by adapting it to the reality and needs of local entities and their population; to repeal the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of the Public Administration...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u111	...and that it is allowed to reinvest the surplus generated in the municipalities themselves. These are the measures the municipalities need. I hope that the rest of the parliamentary groups will support this motion, since it is the reflection of the agreements they had in the Fegamp, where, as you well know, all political parties and therefore all the mayors and mayors of Greece are represented. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u113	Good afternoon. Well, this motion refers — we understand — to two questions: one is the resources we have to share, which resources our country has for the financing of the municipalities; and the second is how they are distributed in a fairer, more equitable way, those resources, understanding that at the moment it is not done that way. In fact, BNG has a different approach, insofar as we believe that the current system of autonomous and local financing needs to be changed, because that is precisely the guarantee that we have more resources and that we do not have to share, as we are now, practically the crumbs — and distribute them in a way that is clearly discriminatory on the part of the People's Party. So what we want is to end up with a system that is centralized, discriminatory and unfair to Galicia and also to the Greek municipalities. The BNG — as it is known — defends a model of economic concert that establishes an on-the-spot relationship between Galicia and the State and enables us to exercise our competence in tax matters with a tax agency itself, and from then on make a distribution of resources, of more resources, which we have to have for the financing of public services and the development of the country. In any case, we believe that action must be taken immediately with regard to a local financing system which is clearly discriminatory for the Greek municipalities in the participation of state incomes — for the municipalities in general and especially for cities —. Recently, Fegamp has just made the data public regarding the year 2014. This data says that Galicia, having 6.2% of the population of the autonomous communities of the common system, receives 5% of the funds for local funding, an absolutely scandalous discrimination. In the case of the average of the municipalities, they receive 50 euros less per inhabitant than the average of the municipalities of the State — 209 compared to 261 —. And discrimination is still greater in the case of cities, which receive 251 euros on average compared to 499 which receive on average the big cities of the state; twice as much as the cities of Greece receive. So we have to change the distribution criteria, which take into account the reality of our country, which is a different country. It's different, among other reasons, from the emplacement of the population, from the fact that we have half the state's population nuclei — 30,000 versus 60,000 — with the derivations and the consequences of financing infrastructure and services. That reality must be taken into account in the distribution. Of course, we also defend that the Union assumes the costs of services that are within its competence and that currently provide the municipalities. Just as in the case of the Local Cooperation Fund, we do not only argue that more funds are available, which provides more funds by assuming many of these grants that can go through the Local Cooperation Fund, but — and in this sense goes the amendment of the BNG which refers to the Local Cooperation Fund, although there is an error in the drafting that we have already taken to correct— that it is also distributed with objective and consensual criteria for distribution, as they are already doing, in addition, some Members, who are a blatant example, and not with the current system of party and clientage that the People's Party applies here in the calls for subsidies, in the investments made through Chapter VI to Galicia, which are clearly discriminatory, which are partisans and which favour them openly... and we can pick up their own transparency websites, which show the evidence of this party, of that extremely discriminatory allocation which makes the People's Party of Public Funds. We could just mention the case of Galician Waters, but any program that we quote proves it. We also advocate that the annual fund of infrastructure is provided with the capital transfers of the Galician Union, which is shared with objective and consensual criteria, and at the same time also, as requested by Fegamp, that the fund of rural equipment and infrastructure and the Environmental Compensation Fund increase its content and also improve the distribution criteria. So the Socialist Group initiative seems to us to be a demand for minimums to reform and improve what already exists, and in that sense it will have the support of the BNG. In any case, we believe that it is insufficient to resolve the structural issue, the substantive issue, and from the BNG we will continue to demand and defend, on the one hand, the change of the legal framework. And the change of the legal framework goes not only by derogating, in the aspects that clearly prejudice the municipalities, the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability, but also Article 135 of the Constitution — so demand local administrations as well — an article that was approved by the two majority parties at that time in 2011; it also goes by clarifying municipal competences and, finally, by a new system of financing for Galicia and for the Greek municipalities that guarantees more resources and better services, by exercising self-government and being able to meet the reality, needs and demands of our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u114	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today the Socialist Party presents a motion with eight points in relation to subsidies and aid to local authorities. Well, Mrs. Rodríguez, we started by denying the greatest and expressing our satisfaction at the support shown by the Council of Galicia and the Government of the Union to the local authorities, maintaining, as it could not be otherwise, a constant dialogue with the Fegamp and agreeing with the Federation matters of interest to the local authorities. And it coincides with the Popular Parliamentary Group in many of its demands, such as the review of the local financing model as well as the reform of the Local Farm Law. And that's why the People's Parliamentary Group is proposing a three-point amendment that partly coincides with its proposal. Firstly, the preparation of a study which determines which aid to municipalities can be integrated into the Local Cooperation Fund, since the claim being made by the municipalities is to integrate some grants, not all of them, into the Local Cooperation Fund. We have to identify which ones, since there is no agreement between the municipalities themselves, and also to study the improvement of transparency mechanisms and to review the mechanisms that allow speeding up and simplifying the procedures. With regard to the issues you raise in your initiative concerning services which are the responsibility of the Galician Union provided by local entities, you should first determine the services which are the competence of the Galician Union and from there on determine how these services are provided and the competent administration. I think we all agree on that. Now, there are many cases, ladies and gentlemen, where this procedure is not followed and the competent administration of a service is surpassed by another administration. For example, regulated education is the competence of the Galician Union, and music conservatories are regulated education. There are many municipalities that, skipping the planning of the Galician board and not counting on the competent administration, have put in their conservatory music councils. I ask them: who has to pay that service now? Do you have to pay who planned that music conservatory or what's the competition of that music conservatory? You can answer me, Your Honor. Mr Bará also spoke of this. With regard to point 4 you are calling for the progressive abolition of subsidies from the autonomous Community's own funds in favour of local entities for integrals in the Local Cooperation Fund. Depends on what grants, don't you, ladies? Because, of course, there are grants for the elaboration and approval of general plans that are intended for those local entities that have no general plan. You guys, what do you want? Do you want us to take them off, integrate them and distribute them indiscriminately among all, have a general plan or not? Is that your proposal? Or, for another example, would you like to remove the specific order for the maintenance of women's information centres, and put it into unconditional funding and close more CISG, like they've done with Ponte Caldelas? By the way, they already know that there was a sentence requiring the Council of Ponte Caldelas to readmit the two workers fired by the socialist mayor with the support of the Nationalist Block Galego, and also to pay compensation of 10,000 euros and the four months' wages of the workers. Too bad they shut down the CIM to save money! Not bad, ladies! [[Applause]] Well, this request you make at this point is absolutely incompatible with other requests they make in equality initiatives, when you say that in the matter of financing women's information centres at Union level you have to guarantee stable funding. Let's see if you can agree. Or one thing or another, both are absolutely incompatible. They also request an annual infrastructure fund for local entities. Well, there are already lines of help for this end. You cannot eliminate all autonomy. We respect local autonomy, but we also have to respect autonomous autonomy. Look, Mr Bará, at the Deputy of Pontevedra — which you came here to presume of it — 85% of the free will funds are for municipalities of their political colour. You have nothing to say to that? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, this weekend, in a newspaper in the South that's not suspected of being influenced by the People's Party or that we'll write this news, it's clear who's going to invest in public work directly. And so the Galician Union has an amount of 142 of 128; and the local administration, 716 versus 235. Half of the public works investment funds were made directly by local authorities, not by the Galician Union. And I'm going to give you another example, since we're talking about local funding. There is a report by Red Localis that says that the per capita funding in the municipalities of Galicia is EUR 793 per inhabitant, compared with the Spanish average, which is EUR 1,116.1. But the municipal collection is EUR 432 per inhabitant in Galicia, compared to EUR 628 per inhabitant in the rest of Spain. I mean, 196 euros less. So the difference in per capita investment is not because the Galician board doesn't give it to them, it's because of the incapacity of the municipalities in that collection. Yes, I know, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, but his voice is part of this group of Localis and one of the authors of this report is Mr. Antonio López Díaz, who was counsellor of the Board of Auditors on a proposal from the Socialist Party. [[Murmurs.]] So I think this data is sufficiently illustrative of this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u117	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. We tabled this amendment. If they really want to reach an agreement in that sense, take it. Otherwise, if they want to keep insisting that the People's Party is against local authorities, because nothing, they don't accept it and we keep talking about local entities. We have already spoken in Commission 1st, we will speak again today and we will speak whenever you want. Now, we are absolutely convinced that the Council of Galicia, which has a permanent and constant dialogue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u119	...with the Fegamp, it will, without a doubt, meet the demands of the local authorities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u121	Good afternoon, everyone. The Parliamentary Group in Marea will support this motion by understanding that it is consistent with the principle of transparency and good governance and also that it deepens in a necessary institutional loyalty, which is not always given between the administration that has to grant certain grants and the councils that are destined to receive them, even though they would be entitled to them because they are in the conditions laid down by their own legislation. It seems to us, moreover, that it would be useful to avoid the corruption and client behaviours that often occur between the Self-Government and some municipalities governed by the People's Party. In this sense, and in the key, therefore, of avoiding corruption and promoting transparency, we will support this motion. We say this, and it is necessary to say it, because it is surprising that this morning a member of the People's Party, after doing so last week also in committee appearance, again justified that, according to her, all parties were corrupt, making a sort of apologetic of corruption, as if it were something consistent with the political exercise, when it is not. To say that all parties are corrupt is like saying that all men are macho, and that's not true. There are men charged and convicted of corruption, or machismo, and there are parties investigated and convicted of corruption. So don't apologize to the equalization of sin because there's no equalization of sin possible. [[Murmurs.]] Because at this moment the only party that is being investigated for corruption, as such party, is the People's Party — and it doesn't say it to the National Audience — for the illegal structural funding of the People's Party, apart from the personal enrichment of some of its directors and a plot even to displace judges and prosecutors... from a plot to separate judges and prosecutors. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the problem, that's the problem, trying to turn away from those who investigate corruption cases. It's not enough for them to steal, and they have, in addition, to step aside and numb those who try to find out. But nothing happens, it's just contextualizing that what we're talking about is a measure of transparency and good governance, and therefore we will support it. [[Murmurs.]] The inventory, first of all, and a systematization of subsidies, will help — we understand — to have a better perspective on the available resources, something that seemed necessary to us. The important thing, however — we have said here, but we have repeated it, is the position of En Marea — is the result that the analysis of local structural financing needs has our country. And this brings us to the real underlying problem, which is the debate on a new financing system, which is also local, which is what is now of interest to us; a system which firstly clarifys the existing competences, which it referred to by Mrs Prado, and which has sufficient funds to properly exercise these powers — some of them assigned, in any case, by amending the Law of Local Regime Basics in Law 27/2013. And, speaking of local funding, it was a missed opportunity that had Feijóo's silence last week when the People's Party reached an agreement with the PNV regarding the modification or renewal of the Basque dome system, which, as you know, is a system for territories that ends up focusing directly on the municipalities themselves, which receive adequate funding; which means for those municipalities almost 500 million more for the coming year that will be destined directly to the one that is taking us here. It's a shame that the Mansedime of Nuñez Feijóo didn't lead him to claim a local funding system that was fair to our country and to its social majority, having a large number of municipalities that fail to meet the competencies they have assigned as a rule. Thirdly, it seems appropriate to object to the subsidy criteria — it seems essential to us and also to us a measure of basic transparency — in addition to accounting for all the transfers received, which I would point out, as Mrs Prado also said, what councils are receiving and the economic accounts, and also depending on the real expenditure needs; something we agree on, of course. And finally, the effort that is required to be made in administrative simplification is also something that has to be welcomed positively, not only that it happens to us as well as to the energy poverty bonus, where they remained — how much was it?— EUR 400,000 without spending because I know there were no people who suffered from energy poverty. Or was it, rather, that people who were dependent and had that energy poverty could not access the administrative means to request it — among other things because it was of a telematic nature and, of course, people who are not in a position to pay for the safe light that you are not in a position to pay for an internet connection—? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u122	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the author group of the motion, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. In the case of the amendment of the BNG Group, we will accept the addition, since we are entirely in agreement with the slaughter that is made. Mrs. Paula Prado, the truth is that I love it; when she has no arguments, she always talks about the CIM of Ponte Caldelas. I love it. It's a work problem, it's not a service problem. And apart from that, we haven't come here to talk about the CIM of Ponte Caldelas, we've been talking about subsidies to local entities, of course. But, look, I say, why don't you take an example of the administrations that the Socialist Party governs? [[Applause]] Look, Deputy Coruña: a single plan — yes, yes, yes — based on objective and transparent criteria, with 74 million for 93 municipalities, and which will reach 100 million. [[Murmurs.]] And Galician Union in the Local Cooperation Fund has EUR 119 million. And look, the programmes — if they want to do so, copy, attend, are not talking — have added the POS, the PAI, the PAS, the cultural, sports, economic promotion, tourism, the development of social services and equal policies for active aging. This is a municipal plan that respects municipal autonomy, that is, take an example. [[Applause]] And don't you tell me, don't come to me -- I'm talking to you -- don't tell me that you support Galician Union. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't you tell me that you support the municipalities -- sorry -- don't tell me they've got agreements. It was seven years without convening the Galician Local Cooperation Commission. And you yourself assumed here, assumed in commission, that the agreements that are made there are the ones that go ahead, and that, in addition, is the appropriate forum for talking about municipalism. They therefore refused for seven years to all the Greek municipalities, favoring their own. And the evidence is there to see them and to contrast them. Yes, Mr. Alberto; yes, Mr. Alberto. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, in the case of your amendments, look at the amendments that the People's Party is merely an excuse not to approve our motion, because the eight points we have in our motion include above all what you propose and something else that has been approved within the Fegamp: to draw up a study on subsidies, aid and agreements, and other additions granted from the Galician Union or any instrumental entity of the Autonomic Administration, for local entities from 2010 to 2010 until now — it turns out that they do not approve it because they know that this will remove the colors — to develop a study and assessment of the cost of services under the competence of the Galician Union and that they are provided by local entities and partially funded through transfers; that, in view of the results of the previous study, funding is established for the permanent stabilization of these services — and that the Community also favours those services that can be used in terms of the entire Union's capitals; and that this is the provision of resources provided by the local authorities; and that, in the form of the present form of the results of the previous study, the resources, the organization of the organization of the organization of the organization of the resources; and the asset can also be used in which can also be made available for the annual transfer of the resources of the resources of the resources of the use of the resources of the resources of the resources of the European Union can also be used to be used to be used to be used;
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u124	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u125	...to establish objective and consensus criteria with local authorities for the distribution of grants; to establish mechanisms to allow annual visualization of all transfers received by local entities and to establish mechanisms to allow simplification. What's wrong is that you don't want to, because sometimes there's news in the press that makes one out of every four euros of public works investment in Galicia finger-adjusted. That's how you proceed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u126	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u127	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u128	One moment, one moment, please! Quiet, please! Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, about the amendment, she didn't tell me anything. Tell me from there. Will you accept it or not, will you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u129	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u130	No, no, no, no. That's it, that's it, thanks. You don't accept the amendment. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Prado, you know your amendment has not been accepted. [[Laughter]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of transparency and good governance
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u131	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u132	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. This morning we are dawning with a new result of the Barometer of the Sociological Research Center corresponding to the month of April, and unfortunately, as every month since quite a long time ago, it turns out that corruption is consolidating itself in our country as the second problem in the perception of all citizens. And that's what this CIS barometer is going on between April 1 and 8, and it's still not known what's the inside of the "Read" operation with respect to the Isabel II Canal plots. I don't know the result of the next barometer that will put us in this situation. The other day in the inquiry to Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Rueda, we pointed out a number of concerns and I want to point out one, I do not want to stop passing it, because we said that citizenship — it is confirming the CIS barometer every month — is absolutely disillusioned — all at once, we said — with the wave of corruption that afflicts us throughout the Spanish geography. And this disenchantment rests — we say too — in the institutions and also us, the representatives of citizenship, perceived as distant from reality and general interest. And, above all, political parties, of course, see us as closed and impermeable organizations to the demands that citizens consider to be priority. We also said that the real problem was that we created political parties to be able to take on these demands, but indeed, on many occasions, incompetent to give them answers. I do not want to allow this opportunity to repeat again — because, if not, it seems that we are always talking about international organizations, etc., and since we are celebrating today precisely, on 9th, the Day of Europe — the July 2016 report, as I said earlier, of the Greek Group, of the Group of States against Corruption, belonging to the Council of Europe, which assumes — that this report — a severe corrective one, as we also said — in the absence of the Spanish authorities — the authorities, of course, of the People's Party, because they are the ones governing this country, when they conclude that they have not actually complied with any of the anti-corruption recommendations. That's why we today, to substance the interpellation of the whole past, present this motion to basically demand more transparency, better government and stronger measures against corruption in Galicia as well. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you, too in Galicia, also in Galicia, the People's Party, are part of all popular machinery in Spain. And in that sense, for us there is concern in Spain but there is also in Galicia. In that sense, we are very afraid that sometimes certain DNA of the popular ruling classes — and I do not refer to Mr. López Crespo, nor to all militants, but rather to the way to manage by the popular ruling class — and this situation may be on the table also in Galicia and not only in the rest of Spain. That's why I wanted to insist, too, in this sense, that it's good news for us... - I don't know, Mr. Tellado, if... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, president...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u133	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u134	Well, in this sense, we welcome the fact that a number of recommendations and motions for resolutions that we have made since the Socialist Party on anti-corruption on the basis of the opinions of the Board of Auditors that we observed this morning were also accepted by the People's Party, although not all of them, because our question, the question of the Socialist Party and my question, would really be whether they were in a position to accept these proposals and these recommendations if they were not really caught in this kind of spider of corruption. That is why we, in this motion, present eight measures in which we have decidedly asked for new policies of transparency, good governance and public example, which, while making substantial progress in instruments of information and citizen participation — which is absolutely necessary — have a special impact on the prevention and fight against corruption. And in this sense, the first step — as you know from the text of the motion — is to provide Galicia with a specific regime for the protection of persons who denounce alleged and practices of corruption, which offers adequate protection to public and private workers, public and private managers, who, having knowledge of cases of corruption or fraud, decide to denounce them, mark and require absolute confidentiality. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if the People's Party, even at the state level, is observing the need to equip itself with an internal office precisely to facilitate the instrumentalization of complaints that may be received in cases of corruption, we do not deprive society in Galicia precisely of having a mechanism so that all persons who may be affected or who are observing alleged corruption can also denounce them. In that sense, we consider it absolutely necessary to have a comprehensive system of protection for reporting persons, which we consider absolutely necessary no longer to be the vanguard of other political or democratic systems, but at least to put us in the same position. As I said the other day, there are already several autonomous communities in Spain that are addressing this issue, and even in the Congress of Deputies are drawing up or discussing some legislative initiative in this regard. Because it is not going to happen to us — as we also said on another occasion — that you plots such as those of the training courses and unemployed, both in the "Z" operation in the Coruña and the one that has just been unveiled in Ourense in training courses, it turns out that there are complaints from individuals. And it may be that even the Council has carried out some internal investigation, which has even asked for some fund reintegration, but in the end, what we have observed is that complaints from individuals never go, through the public institutions in Galicia that know the complaints, to the judicial system. It turns out that in the end it has to be the individuals themselves who come to trial when sometimes precisely we had to act with much more early warning and much more prevention. In this complaint protection system we consider it necessary to ensure a number of premises, such as the express prohibition of removal or replacement of the complainant's office or post during the substance of the investigations. We need to strengthen this system of comprehensive protection for complainants with the designation and allocation of the necessary means, a specific office and an independent body. In this sense, we could certainly be talking about strengthening precisely the new powers of the Board of Auditors. That model could serve us, but, of course, by providing it, as it was also said this morning, with sufficient resources and other mechanisms. We also need to ensure that the time limits, procedures and precautionary measures which are reasonable for the effective handling of complaints, including the possibility of provisional transfers of persons who denounce similar positions during the processing of proceedings, are well regulated, in order not to receive, as are the cases we will be aware of in the media, sometimes reprisals which cannot be received; and, of course, also assign the necessary legal representation when the complainant needs it. A second measure would be absolutely fundamental for us: the regulation in Galicia of pressure groups, groups of interest, lobbying, both in its action before the German Government and in its action before this House. As I said, we follow the example of the European Union in the regulation of lobbying, regulation of pressure groups, interest groups, taking advantage of which we are also on Europe's Day. We create a specific log of lobbyists, we establish the obligation of every public representative to have published his work schedule, set up an ethical code and set up an independent body that ensures precisely the functioning of this system. The motion contains another series of measures — to be completed — which we consider absolutely also necessary, as on another occasion we have had reason to look at, to set up an entire system which facilitates and promotes a new policy of transparency and better governance. In this sense, we consider it absolutely necessary, as stated earlier, in the intervention on the other day, that this House should have a scrupulously follow-up to the fulfilment by the Conference of the Agreements adopted precisely in the Parliament of Galicia, that the references to the weekly meetings of the Council of the European Union give all information on all aspects, of all drafts and projects, agreements and reports or memories presented, with access to literary texts, with maximum transparency; that we regulate the material scope of the laws of measures, and that it does not occur as the theme that took place this year of the 2017 Law on Measures, which is affecting twenty-one rules without the necessary parliamentary debate; and that we establish better systems of transparency in a series of matters such as the agendas of the President's external travels, the staff frameworks, positions of trusts, the processes of participation and the development of public policies and the budgetary policies of the Autonomous Community, and also to know the basic information of the main infrastructures, the main infrastructures and the modifications. If we complete this whole list of anti-corruption measures with the incorporation of the European Commission guidelines already adopted in 2014 to assess the risks of fraud, not only in the application of the European structural funds, but also in the purchases, investments and subsidies developed by the Galician Union with own funds, we will gain all in transparency and we will all win in the prevention of corruption. This whole series of initiatives is also necessary to agree with a mechanism of maximum accessibility, periodicity, methodological explanation of data, reusable formats, which allow...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u135	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u136	...to all stakeholders export them and use them, because, gentlemen, in this case of the People's Party, I insist: political responsibility for corruption cannot be resolved in the polls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u137	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u138	Good afternoon again. Today is indeed the Day of Europe. I went out to the street first at rest and felt how people were vibrating with that spirit of Europe in the streets of Santiago, because, indeed, the European Union I think it has a lot to do with the subject we are dealing with today. And I also wanted to take this opportunity to, even though they usually do it in the corner of the right, to take advantage of these interventions to solve this, to tell Mrs. Paula Prado not to cheat on the lonely. Mrs. Prado... If you'll grant me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u139	That's not mandatory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u140	Don't you? Okay. In any case, what I want to tell you is that, in the funds of free designation, you... were mixing the data, because you know -- it was so in the previous period, also governing the People's Party -- that there is a plan of councils that makes an absolutely equitable and objective allocation of funds, which logically the most benefited council is the Town Hall of the Road, because it is the largest and most nuclei of population, and Pontevedra and Vigo -- it was with the previous system, also governing the People's Party -- have funding independent of the rest of the municipalities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, Mr. Villoslada, going to the subject, you can't deny your commitment, your persistence, your zeal for transparency and good government. You are a sort of missionary, propagandist and defender of the goodness of that kind of transparency religion. And it seems good to us, even though we are quite skeptical, we have an attitude — the truth — critical of that speech. Because, of course, we're talking a lot lately about transparency and good governance, when we've just seen a brutal cut in democratic retrogression in the last decade, and we've seen the greatest corruption rates in the history of a democracy. So this is leading to the discredit of the institutions of a political system, the birth of franchise, the second boronic restoration, and therefore these operations of reform, of refoundation, of whitening, of purification, of a sort of legitimization of a system that is, intrinsically, a corrupt and unjust system. I have already said that in recent times this centralizing and anti-democratic drift has increased, both in the European Union and in the European Union, which is today on the feast, as in the Spanish State, with a greater concentration of wealth or increase of inequality and a greater centralization of power in making decisions in increasingly remote institutions of people and less democratic ones. And that may also justify disbelief and mistrust in many people with regard to these institutions. And at the same time, it proliferates the rules of transparency, participation, good government, which is nothing but makeup and appearance. Even the Galician People's Party claims to be the world champion of transparency and good government and to have a Transparency Portal that they use to report all the chanchos, all the discriminatory and partisan distributions that make up the public funds. There are numerous examples of democratic retrogression, the loss of freedoms and citizens' rights, the worsening of democratic quality: labour reforms, the reform of the criminal code, the mordaza law... by the way, which are still in force, although there is a majority in the Spanish state that would allow these laws to be put down. And the same is true of the mechanisms of participation in this Parliament, or in general of the Galician Union, which I have no time to comment on. The same report by the Board of Auditors shows all the facts as to the transparency and good governance of this system, or the decisions of the European Union, as it said before; for example, it would be sufficient to refer to the absolutely dark and opaque negotiations of international treaties. And we watch paradoxes, as there are these transparency websites, as I have said, genuine chiringuits assembled to manage transparency, such as International Transparency, which certainly has very untransparent funding, and also international models of transparency such as Mr Baltar's, which is also the champion of transparency in Galicia and in the Spanish state; therefore, it also demonstrates that, in the name of transparency, you can make the most caciquil policy. By the way, if we want to give an example of transparency to the groups here present, I think it would be a good thing for transparency and good government, for example, to approve research committees on English and also on Villar Mir's contracts. That would be a good example of transparency and good governance. [[Applause]] Of course, the BNG will not oppose these measures, but that it will also be clear our mistrust with regard to this reformist speech, of makeup, of whitening, of a sort of rescue of the regime, which is absolutely delegitimate. And, therefore, we will continue to fight not for reforming this regime, but for transforming it, for breaking with this corrupt and unjust regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u141	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u142	Ladies and gentlemen. It is a real shame that the opposition must continue to insist on these issues of transparency and good governance in the face of the lack of the people's party and the PPdEG's real will, responsibility and will. And after the intervention here of the companion Mr. Crespo... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why. I'm talking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u143	No, no, don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u144	This morning I was more miserable after hearing it. In my first speech, when I spoke to the advisor, I made it very clear that when we talked about corruption, we weren't saying that all the members of the People's Party sitting there were corrupt. It's just the serious thing was that his companion Cristina Romero was the one who said they were all corrupt, it was Cristina Romero who said so We certainly didn't think so; if we thought they were in affiliation with a corrupt party, accused of corruption. [[Murmurs.]] And bad luck to fellows like Cristina Romero by saying those statements, and, in addition, I repeat it already and I repeat it again, and I don't say it here, I say it in private and I say it here. That doesn't mean we're on ideological antipodes and it's a pity that some of you defend the indefensible. We condemn their party and much of their members charged, convicted and suspected of illegal practices, because corruption is not isolated cases; every day more and more cases continue to emerge, and corruption crimes even than we consider legalized corruption. It's terrible, and it shows that your party — a party charged with corruption, this corruption, bad that weighs them down — is corrupt from top to bottom. And the problem is not the people, of course it's not the people, it's their functioning, it's their structures, it's their way of doing politics, in this mafia way, with impunity and shame reaching unsuspected limits, without anyone taking real responsibility for what's going on; some structures in which there are individuals who parasitize our institutions and our democracy; and we see that this would not be tolerable in any case in any of our European partners, in any of these countries. The President of the Government, who will declare for such a serious case as Gürtel for corruption; the President of the Community of Madrid, of his party, Mrs Cifuentes, also bear witness to Punica; Mr. Ignacio González, threatening to take two shots at the courts; the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, making slaps on the mengers. And, indeed, it's not just about you, it's about today, it's about you, and it's about Pujol. Not only does it happen to the People's Party, there's more, indeed. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, Mr. Pazos, not us, not us. And besides... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u145	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u146	...they keep hiding on these four walls, hiding on their absolute majority, because people outside know the truth perfectly; say the CIS, the public opinion: what they earn out here loses it, and they know it. It's more. I can even ideologically disagree in a passionate way, as with Mr. Tellado, I can disagree, but people involved in Pokémon and people who have a lot to keep quiet, and about claims that they have been hit by telephone, at least that they have a bit of a stink and that they cut themselves a bit in order to attack people who are totally free of any kind of suspicion as to corruption. That is why we are going to support this initiative of the Socialist Party, and I say it with regret, I say it with regret, that they continue to live in denial. We have too many cases where politicians don't hesitate to use their position for companies to benefit in exchange for gifts, bribes, rotational doors and illegal financing. This situation generates a great social alarm — I repeat — as your CIS once again says, and as much as they want to divert attention from other things, their more than eight hundred accused and the multitude of plots that destroy our democracy and our public system and our credibility as our country are there. Mr. Feijóo and you sell yourselves like great fighters against corruption; Mr. Feijóo, like a sort of super-Glew hero; for moments it seems that the names of Pablo Crespo or his close friend Pachi Lucas sound nothing; neither do they call him Baltar, Cuisine, Cacharro, Villar Mir, Louzán; they don't sound at all. Neither did Martial Dorado sound, his old close friend, who knew him all Arousa and knew what he was doing, except Mr. Feijóo. It's like the baby and like Ana Mato, she doesn't know anything about it. It's funny and we don't know what's worse. They can pass any laws they want, they don't have any credibility. When in Commission 1 we asked them about the black cards, they didn't answer, because of course, it's like the fox talking about taking care of the chicken, and when they pick him up stealing "Venezuela" screams. [[Murmurs.]] The initiative that the Socialist Party brings here today logically follows that we have to understand politics, and specifically in the paragraph of this motion, where it says that it defends a specific regime for the protection of persons reporting on corruption practices with measures such as the confidentiality of the complainant or the creation of an independent body for the handling of complaints among other measures, has our full support, which we also proposed an independent citizen observatory for the evaluation of public policies, which the PP voted against. And this initiative is appropriate, because there is pressure on workers and workers when they want to report cases of corruption. We know there's nothing through Operation Lezo, the pressure on a worker at Canal Isabel II for trying to denounce a alleged case of corruption of his own also now repudiated CEO Ignacio González. Time is giving them reason...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u148	...—it's over—and from our parliamentary group, logically, I repeat: we support this initiative, we continue to approve, propose and support initiatives like this here and also to see in the streets what hides here and does not leave here. Of course we're going to continue to report, because we have a social majority that supports us, that supports us, and they know it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u149	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u150	We don't comply with being ruled by an accused party. And as there is an alternative, we're going to keep fighting, not only to eradicate people who don't go wrong or solve the problem, but we want to eliminate this systemic problem that parasitizes our institutions and governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After the overwhelming waterfall of proposals from the Weirlands to combat corruption, let me not refer to any particular, because I need at least two days to analyze and evaluate them. So what I'm going to talk about is measures that the People's Party has taken to fight corruption, because those are actually a reality. [[Applause]] It was in January 2015 when President Feijóo solemnly announced in this House the impulse of a package of democratic regeneration measures that led to the adoption of five laws in fifty days. And the People's Party complied with that commitment and approved the reform of the Council of Auditors Act, to provide that body with control over the prevention of corruption; the Law on the Financing of Political Parties; the Law on the Enlargement of Citizens' Participation in Politics and Parliamentary Life; the Law on Legal Assistance, which prevents public funds from being used to defend persons engaged in corruption processes; and the Law on Transparency and Good Government. However, we note that the Socialist Party is absolutely inconsistent with democratic regeneration policies, as it has shown last week in proposing the elimination of savings in the case of revision of the Statute. Don't you remember, Mr. Díaz, that on his day they put forward a proposal for a reform of the Statute? Where was the elimination of the gaps in that proposal? Why did Mr. Besteiro refuse to talk about it in 2014 after a meeting with President Feijóo at which I proposed this agreement, among others? Can you explain it, Mr. Díaz? [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Rodríguez, 1 out of every 4 euros in public works investment in Galicia is finger-adjusted. It's just that this is the news I've read to you. But 12% was the Union and 37% were the municipalities and the deputies. All the news has to be read! [[Murmurs.]] All the news has to be read! [[Applause]] Mr. Villares used to say -- he would refer to the electric ticket -- and I mean... that all of the joint's electric ticket requests were covered. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And no, for example, can say the same thing to the Lords of the Tide of Podemos when there are 123 people in Santiago Town Hall waiting for the home help service; these are the dependents to attend. And in the Coruña they just removed 1 million euros from the share of social income for bicycles. I suppose, gentlemen, you'll have access to the Internet. And when we talk about political parties -- I also say it because they don't have it in their archives, and I'm going to enrich them with some other news that seems to be missing in all of that repertoire that they're going to say here in all of their speeches -- "The Court of Auditors detects irregularities in the electoral expenses of the tides." You can read it, you can check it out. "The Court of Auditors confirms that We may have paid part of your campaign with another current account" — and not enabled for that purpose. "The Court of Auditors considers that We may have violated the electoral law." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Not to mention the laudable prevarications and the defendants of the Tide of Podemos. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Díaz, the Socialist Group is improvising.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u153	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u154	They often complain that the Board has changed laws of recent approval, but you are constantly making proposals to amend the Transparency Act, approved last year, which was passed without a vote against and after being agreed with you; 25 amendments have been tabled and the People's Group has accepted them more than half. Is that covenant no longer good for them, Mr. Díaz? Is the follow-up of Parliamentary agreements by annual report no longer worth them? The information on institutional travel, whose literal wording in the law we have agreed with you, is it not good for you, Mr. Díaz? We have been tempted to incorporate an amendment into its text to say: the Union will incorporate the following measures once it is made by some administration governed by the Socialist Party. Because exactly, Mr. Díaz, the one about the protection of complainants will you explain to your president of the Pontevedra Parliament, the one who urges to "be careful," that, when you talk about a matter of corruption and warning and threat? Is that proposal for the president of the Pontevedra Parliament? You better explain it to him, because, if we explain it to him, we're equally accused of Machists, because here every time a political woman gets criticized, it says that it's machismo. [[Murmurs.]] I claim the ability of political women to fit criticism... and not appeal to machismo every time we are criticized for some action. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Of course, we're not going to be able to speak now of the six concelers charged with the Vigo Town Hall, including the mayor, Abel Caballero, for not talking about the recruitment of Mrs. Silva's sister-in-law. I'm sure we can't talk about the convicted mayor — no one else — of Camarinas. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Díaz: Beaster, Orozco, Keys, Grignan, Pichurri, Abel Caballero, the remaining five concelliers and Carmela Silva's sister-in-law do not share DNA with any members of the People's Party, but if they share the principle of presumption of innocence, which we give to all the people who are accused. Different case is that of Mr. Pichurri, who, of course, is doomed and we're still waiting... for him to resign. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, I understand that you like to come here and be a spokesman, but that is, if I were to leave you to talk, but talk to the members of your group and let them talk to you, let you speak, Mr. Losada! I know you'd like to come here to defend Mrs. Silva and Mr. Abel Caballero, but, look, Mr. Caballero is charged and Mrs. Silva has a problem, she has a problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, on his day we've introduced...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u155	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u156	Well, their comrades at Santiago Town Hall didn't buy them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u157	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u158	His companions from the Town Hall of Santiago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u159	Quiet. We're finishing up now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u160	...they didn't buy them, they gave them gifts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u161	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u162	Just like those of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u163	Mr. Losada, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u164	Mr. Losada, you know your fellow Santiago Town Hall gave them their handbags. And those of the Galician Nationalist Block...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u165	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u166	...they also gave them their bags, didn't they?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u167	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u168	They didn't give me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u169	Mr. Losada, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u170	That's to Mrs. Yolanda Díaz of the United Left; she was from Vega Sicily and Moët & Chandon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u171	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u172	I just don't know... look, lessons... [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u173	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u174	...elections of the Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u175	Quiet. It's over, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u176	Yes, but if you let me speak, Mr. President; if not, give me some time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u177	No, look at the clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u178	Yeah, no, but I'm constantly interrupted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u179	It's just that the clock is for everyone the same.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u180	Of course! Because to see...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u181	No, no, no, but it's over now. [[Murmurs.]] And silence, please!, to finish this topic. And let's leave us with bags and stories, please. Let's finish this thing, eh! Come on. [[Laughter]] Let's finish, it's okay! [[Laughter]] Come on! That's why. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Come on! Let's finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u182	It's just that they don't like us talking about the concierge pockets of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. But I don't mind talking about bags...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u183	Let's finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u184	...of nationalist and socialist ladies, of course!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u186	It's in a summary collected, that is, the summary is public to everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u187	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u188	Look... yeah, yeah, it's in the media published. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u189	End, Mrs. Prado, end.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u190	Mrs Vilan, it is published in the media, unfortunately. [[Murmurs.]] Look, on his day we tabled an amendment saying that this must be regulated by the state, you didn't accept it. Look, we're sorry to make amends, because you, with great pride, in the past, said you wouldn't accept nuances on this subject. And we from the Socialist Party are not going to accept a single lesson on this subject. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the motion, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u192	Yes, president. Thank you. Following the order of speeches, because, as much as I'm angry that Mrs Prado is, I'm not going to initiate this reply... then I'm going to follow exactly the order of speeches. [[Applause]] Mr Bará, it is true that sometimes they are persistent; I believe that persistence is necessary when we note that action is needed in a situation such as the current one in the field of transparency. It is also true that I am — and I am speaking here — not just in my own personal capacity — a convinced Europeanist, and a Europeanist would also say that federalizing. I think we have to get there, it is true that it will be difficult, but it is true that in a social Europe, not in Europe of the great recession we have experienced. But I do believe that Europe has given our country a great opportunity to improve in the political system, in the democratic system and in our economic indicators. Another thing is the drift that has taken the European Union in recent years of great recession. But that is why I bet, and I think we should all bet, by measures — positive — that come from the European Union in order to be able to match precisely the political parameters, the democratic parameters of our best surroundings. And in that sense what I would sometimes ask is, if these aren't the best alternatives, what alternatives would they be that could help us all complete a real framework of fight against corruption? I believe that the public agenda of all public representatives should be required, and I believe that the establishment of an office and a whole system for the protection of complainants — if, specifically in Galicia, as in other autonomous communities, I believe that Galicia is no less precisely — to establish the regulation of all pressure groups or to regulate the laws of measures are not makeup, but they are really measures that we can take. Thank you also for the support of the Länder Group for all these measures. And what surprises me is precisely the aggressiveness — perhaps I will stop aggressively in the best sense or in the dialectical sense of expression — of Mrs Prado's intervention. I see it too much — as I said at the beginning of my speech — adjourned or altered, spreading all kinds of situations, both with regard to this initiative and with previous initiatives. I think that sometimes that best attack is not the best defense, because I think it went out precisely to defend a situation of the People's Party. And if he comes out to defend himself, he feels exactly attacked, when exactly he shouldn't feel attacked when we're proposing anti-corruption measures and transparency measures. Does the 2016 Law follow the matter of transparency, if they do not comply scrupulously? No, no, no, no. Is the 2016 situation the 2017 corruption situation? No, absolutely not. And in that sense they can't teach any political group in this country. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in that sense what always attracts my attention and will draw my attention is why they always look back, because they always look at the measures taken and they do not look at the measures we can take. And in terms of savings, of course, what we are asking for is a clear position of the political groups at this time that we consider it appropriate to have a position on when we reform — I hope that one day will come at that time — the Statute of autonomy of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] But in the story he made me, he didn't tell me about Pablo Crespo as an organization secretary of this People's Party in Galicia for eight years, never. He didn't tell me about the oral trial open to the former board delegate in Ourense. He didn't tell me about all the training plots... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u193	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u194	...in Ourense, the former mayor of Monterrey...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u195	Quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u196	If they let me talk, it would be much better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u197	Yes, yes. Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. We're finishing up now. We're finishing up. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u198	No, no, tell me. Because I didn't think to report this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u199	Quiet. Don't interrupt; if not, it's very difficult. To govern this is very difficult if they interrupt... of course, it's very difficult. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u200	That's how I can't finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u201	Finish, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's complicated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u202	I'm done if I'm left with the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because I didn't say anything either...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u203	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u204	...of the former mayor of Sada, of the former mayor of Porriño. I didn't say anything about the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u205	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u206	...is the only party for procedural corruption in this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u207	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u208	...and Mariano Rajoy the first president of the Government called as a witness in cases of corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u209	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. G.P. motion. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal and Mr. Luis Villares Naveira, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to regain employment in the automotive sector and its components
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u210	There's an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u211	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u212	Good afternoon, everyone. [[Murmurs.]] I'll drink some water, because they're talking. Good afternoon again. When I came to this Parliament and I was helped by the voices in the Industry Committee, there were people who told me that I was lucky to be able to debate with a trained advisor, a knowledge expert from the Galician industry and who knew what he was talking about. In his first speeches the truth is that he let me down a bit when he saw that he elucidated realities like, for example, the attempt of the Ferroatlantic Spolitics by financial predators. But the truth is, in the past full, when I presented the question of the problems of the car component industries, I was really amazed. First of all, for not knowing the parliamentary dynamics and asking for proposals from En Marea when we made the inquiry. An interpellation, as you all know, is to put a problem on the table and ask the Government to do to deal with it. Then the truth is, I understood it very well. The councillor didn't bring any government proposals on the matter and that's why he asked En Marea... which, as we all know, corresponds to the motion, which we are going to make today and so we expect the advisor to illustrate what an industrial and country policy should be like in this sector. [[Murmurs.]] It seems that Mr. Counsellor, as a good neoliberal, recovers Mr. Solchaga's sentence: "The best industrial policy is that which does not exist." And we already know what the consequences for Galicia are for those non-political ones, especially in the destruction of the naval industry. I'm sure Mr. Counsellor knows the DAFO analyses and applied it in his intervention of the full past. As you all know, it's a way to analyze the situation of a company or sector by explaining its strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats, and, from this analysis, to be able to develop actions to transform weaknesses into strengths and threats into opportunities. But there's no greater blindness than he doesn't want to see. In this case the counselor is the fact that he is not blind, but rather do his mouth, and he just wants to see the fortitudes. He's been talking about the strengths of the sector for ten minutes, which are obvious. Albisque unfocused opportunities — you can't see — but the truth is, you don't want to see the weaknesses, and much less the threats. He seems to apply the saying of "eyes he doesn't see, heart he doesn't feel." But those who will feel it, with this absolute inaction of government, are the companies and workers of this car component industry. They wanted proposals here: twenty proposals to try to help solve the weaknesses and to deal with threats and transform them into opportunities in the car component sector. First of all, the ability to provide guarantees for financing, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. And here we have developed four proposals: increasing the Igape discount fund by EUR 7 million, since financial guarantees are the main problem in the sector for its technological renewal and improved competitiveness; this would allow a minimum of EUR 140 million in loans; and it is not so important, however, that Igape's largest allocation, which, as it has repeatedly repeated, is based on the purely financial section and is very budgeted for interest subsidies; and that's not the problem: the sector can return the loans, because it is profitable; the real problem is the guarantees to get the loans. To develop specific Igape avali­tions for the tractor sectors for the industrialisation of Galicia, such as, among others, the automobile. To increase Igape's long-term loans, mainly for small businesses, which, in addition to the security problems, have much more difficulty in accessing financial and private capital directly; we plan to increase these loans by EUR 20 million in the next budget. And, in turn, to develop long-term calls for Igape loans specific to the tractor sectors for industrialization in Galicia, such as, among other things, the automobile, the naval, the industries derived from the primary sector and others that would have to be identified. In the R & D+i issue, we put forward four other proposals: to increase the value of R & D+i from the Galicia Innovation Agency at a minimum of EUR 10 million. Develop calls within the R & D+i actions of the Galician Innovation Agency specific to the tractor sectors for the industrialization of Galicia; then they will arrive as a fine rain to the rest of the sectors. To guarantee and develop over time all calls that in the budgets of the Galician Innovation Agency and other budget splits directed at the promotion of R & D+i, and that will be executed 100% in this 2017 exercise and the following of the legislation, which has never been done — there is always a minimum of 20%-25% not executed — in recent years. To explore collaborative strategies within all calls for aid to R & D+i from small and medium-sized enterprises, without having to count within the pool or consortium that opts for the same with large companies, because we already know what's going on: in the end, money remains in large companies and small and medium-sized companies, which are really the most innovative ones, cannot develop their own projects. Two proposals in the field of training: to develop, in collaboration with the universities of Greece, training courses for senior graduates specific to the most advanced technologies for the development of new products of high value added and, in particular, in the following areas: autonomous driving, new materials, products and systems for the improvement of comfort in the car and technologies and processes for the deployment of advanced factories and 4.0. To develop continuing training and vocational training courses in the field of work with robots — what are called co-robots — and in the programming, adjustment, maintenance and operational operations, and that they do not have to come from outside Spain and outside Galicia, as we are seeing at this time. Two proposals to improve the control of the good end of grants: providing the Igape and the Galician Innovation Agency with high-specialization staff or staff to monitor that subsidies, financial aid, avalanche and other incentives are strictly applied to the targets marked in the corresponding calls, which in many cases do not occur, as was clearly seen in Operation Campion, where, of course, an old fellow of his bank and a general director of Igape is charged, because the aids were not really going to what they went out of the call and for what they did. Removing contracts with consultants or external staff from the bodies mentioned above, for the control of the aid and incentives described in point 7; the reality is that consultants are being hired who have no real knowledge of the industrial activity of these companies and, ultimately, the entire control process is a true paripé. More proposals — they wanted proposals — two transports: speeding up the necessary jobs and management with other administrations for the full and urgent development of the Atlantic maritime highway, a real gateway to Europe for the production of the automotive industries and many other industries. In the same way, develop the rail transport project, link ports, dry ports, essential for these types of industries, and industrial areas of Galicia with the European Transport Network. More industrial soil: providing industrial soil equipped with all facilities, well-reported and competitive prices to meet the needs of companies, with different performances, among them, and on a priority basis, finally finishing PLSAN (the logistics platform of Salvaterra-As Neves) in this 2017 exercise; we have been back several years. One more — and fundamental to the issue of energy — is to urge the Ministry of Industry to develop the aid envisaged by the European Union in Spain, which is being used massively in Germany and other countries in the north for industrial energy consumption through subsidies, which consist of bilateral contracts to consume most renewable energies. In this way, we didn't see the wind farms stopped for many days and they could be supplying the Greek industries with costs totally subsidized and allowed by the European Union, like the directive that came out a year ago. And the last four strategic transversals: developing a collaborative strategy in the Euroregion, circumventing unfair competition practices that involve creating a powerful pole of the car, which can bring many more shared European investments and aid. Develop a strategic plan that sets out all the actions to be undertaken in collaboration with the entire sector of components, technology centres and all the institutions related to automobiles, to achieve the deployment in southern Galicia of a new car assembler, giving preference to projects oriented to the manufacture of electric vehicles. To ensure that all previous measures are developed with the creation or at least the maintenance of employment and the maintenance of working conditions as a basic premise. To set up a follow-up table for all these and other measures that can be developed, with the presence of the whole sector, trade unions and administrations. Of course, there's a lot more to do, but here you have twenty proposals to start working hard enough. And please don't lose another three years in industrial policy, don't follow Mr Solchaga's recommendation and we have to wait for a government from En Marea to start working; it's probably too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u213	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u214	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. This morning we started with Jacques Derrida and the deconstruction. I'll continue on that line. This may seem to be the genealogy of a European royal house, whatever it may be, since it is the genealogy of the Lezo, Punica, Gürtel case, at last, of all that it does not have to do with the People's Party at all, and that we all know that it is part of the hyperspatial dimension of Spanish politics right now. Exactly that, Mrs. Prado. [[Applause]] I consider, moreover, that it is absolutely petty to talk here about someone who is not charged... — yes, yes, Vigo— when you're talking... [[Words not allowed]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u215	Mr. Losada, please, please let us go to the subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u216	I see...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u217	Yes, yes, please, if possible, go to the subject. I ask you as a personal favor, that you go to the subject today, because that's a matter that...! Please, get on with it. I beg you, please, if you can all go to the subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u218	I'm going to the subject, but you're going to allow me, after an intervention this morning by a spokesperson from the People's Party, to go to the subject in my own way, eh!, in my own way. That is to say, I am not going to go to the subject in the way of an arbitrary president of Parliament who decides what is the way to go to the subject depending on who he is talking about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u219	I don't know what he's talking about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u220	But I do know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u221	I don't know what you're talking about right now, but good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u222	Well, let's keep...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u223	I don't know what you're talking about. Please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u224	It's true you talked about Derrida and Carl Schmitt. I, with intellectual humility, am going to talk about Mariano Rajoy and Andrea Fabra, because I'm going to talk about employment. Don't think I'm not on the subject. I'm going to talk about employment, because ultimately international competition for automobiles, like any other sector, is about employment. And, man, we all know what Mr. President said the other day: in life we must be able to look elsewhere. This is a good childhood version of that "fucking" Andrea Fabra, who — man!, his father is in jail — the truth is that one couldn't expect much more than "fucking". The socialists are not going to look elsewhere, and the labor situation in this country is dramatic. I insist: the socialists are not going to look elsewhere and, of course, the party in which I join is not investigated for corruption. Well, it's not investigated for corruption... or -- it tastes or not -- it's not investigated for corruption. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] So this issue of looking elsewhere has to do with the quality of employment, and the quality of employment is stability, they are decent wages, and that's what makes it possible to innovate and improve production processes, and that's what allows international competition, and that's what would actually prevent the relocation, in this case, of automotive, but also many other sectors. And I want to set an example. The truth is, I'm not much of talking about specific cases, but I think it's illustrative of the world being built. A company that works for the largest public company. And by the way, we all have to reflect on what role we should have, the exemplary role that should have in the public sphere, the public enterprise, in the construction of better societies. Galicia's largest public company, Sogama, a private company that works for her. I am talking exactly about training and employment and therefore about relocation. A worker with a possible contract that ended him a certain day, a Tuesday, any Tuesday; until that Tuesday nobody told him anything, that Tuesday rose up at 4:30 a.m. and worked from 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m., and no one told him anything, with which he understood that his contract continued, and two hours later, when he was resting after eating, because if he had risen at 4:30 a.m., they called him by telephone to tell him that the next day he was no longer, that his contract had been completed. This worker worked for a government-run Greek public enterprise presided over by Mr Feijóo. It will be necessary to look elsewhere to tolerate these absolutely indefensible labour situations! And we have to listen here and we had to listen, and I heard what was better than four hundred euros than anything. I did my thesis about Cuba at the time of the colonial era and I remember a lot of reports from the slaves, who said that the rice bowl that they gave to slaves was more than they could get in the sugar fields once the cane was cut and there was nothing to collect — we said — no food to collect. And this is what we're talking about, and this kind of society. Tomorrow we will discuss a BNG initiative on the state budget, and what is being built. As much as you come here, you deconstruct reality or try to deconstruct reality, and this labor situation — I insist — is absolutely outraged that prevents any process of competitive modernization, in any country in the world, that is, you can't, in a situation of extreme temporality, with wages of misery, with the instability it means — and I repeat it, because it proved absolutely intolerable to me in 2017 in Western Europe — wait for a person to finish his working day on the day he ends his contract and call him two hours later home to tell him that the next day he won't work. I would like you to reconsider — to deconstruct — in that situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u225	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u226	We will therefore support these measures. We have incorporated an amendment to add two subjects which we believe to be enriching an initiative, which is already wide, on training and employment. About training and employment because, by the way, while working so much for the Greek Government, and while it's so supportive, it works so well and it's so concerned about internationalization, three days ago, a headline came out that about 15% of the Greek and Greek people between 16 and 29 years old...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u227	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u228	...they didn't work or study, and practically on the same day there was a budgetary change to incorporate 77 million euros of remainder of the year 2016 which is seen as the temporal government, the central government in functions, has prevented the government from executing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u229	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u230	This is a world that is being deconstructed, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u232	Good afternoon. On the side of the Galego Nationalist Block we are going to vote in favour of this initiative by En Marea, although there are issues in which our political position is more ambitious, for the same reason that we have voted in favour of other initiatives relating to the question of the Socialist Party's automation, and for the same reason that we have also debated in this House already in this legislature some initiatives of the Galician Nationalist Block itself on this subject, as recently as the result of an inquiry to the adviser, a proposal to this sector. Because we understand, like the other parliamentary groups of the opposition, that this is a central problem of our economy and that it has short-term consequences, as Mr Losada now referred to, and that it has consequences also in the medium and long term. We understand that this is a country problem and that the diagnosis is made, that our automobile loses its pulse and its strategic position, while the German Government is characterized by its inaction, by giving us headlines of Industry 4.0, but few alternatives to the medium and long term, and while all these consequences are essentially also in the back of the workers and workers. We understand, therefore, that it is a strategic sector for Galicia, for Galicia of the future, that we have to take advantage of all the capital that we have about the experience, how the geographic location and how the potential creator and researcher to join efforts on this issue. The debate is about a lot of questions. En Marea's comrades and comrades touch various sectors and various points, but I'll focus on two issues that we understand fundamental and in which we want to come up with some nuance. The first of these concerns the whole matter of financing, in particular the Igape. We do not oppose claiming more logically, but for us it is a problem that goes beyond the specific figures; it is a problem — we see it in the morning debate of the Board of Auditors very briefly — that not only goes beyond the invested content, that we also defend that it is greater, but rather the need to change the model, that the Igape model, as revealed by those reports of the Board of Auditors, is invalid; it is not valid to see its organizational shortcomings and it is invalid to see its figures. We bet on developing another type of financial instruments with a Greek and public character, to convert that Igape into a Galego Institute of Credit, which is a more agile way both to dynamize credit towards the productive economy, immediately, as to bet on issues related to two areas that for us are essential: on the one hand, all of the things referred to by research, something also today this week, with the object of increasing something that is decisive in this globalized context, which is the strict bet on the added value and the location of the innovation of capital that generates the added value here in our country and not in other latitudes; and on the other hand, something also fundamental to us, which is the maintenance of jobs in decent conditions. We have missed the proposal a reference to working conditions, especially in the whole reference to the auxiliary industry, which has conditions that are hyper-poor and precarious, of which we have already talked about here. We have often argued with the Council that it is not only about numbers, contracts, but also about assessing the number of hours worked, the evolution of the categories of work and so on. And, above all, not only because of the qualitative aspect that all these workers and workers have, and that add up to us as possible power of the automobile, but also because of another elemental thing, which is for which and under what conditions we allocate money from the public era. For us this is a very important reflection. We have already asked for a number of specific documentation on the relationship between investments and employment relationships in specific companies, because we understand that the donation of money has to be accompanied by accountability and maintenance of decent jobs, when not creating new ones. And finally, because if I'm running out of time, I didn't want to stop pointing out a second point that we think is fundamental. For BNG, for nationalists, it is absolutely unrealistic to talk about how to relaunch this country's industry and not talk about a fundamental element for all industrial production, which is energy. To see when we assume at once and join the state forces that in order to give this debate rigorously we cannot forget the energy issue and what that implies at the level of expenditure for industry. We have recently seen the thread of budget debates in the state. So I again leave a question that we have already launched: if Basquel Herria can, why not Galicia? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u234	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is it's a shame that Mr. Abel Losada disavows his intervention to correct a mistake by a companion of his party, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. I have to tell you that the first president of the Government of Spain who was to declare a trial was the PSOE: Felipe González, case According to Marey, a kidnapping of the LAGs in 1983. He was sent to a trial in 1998. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He was from his party, he was from his party, Mr. Villoslada. Because you come here and talk as if you didn't have any acronyms, you didn't have a match. You are from the Socialist Party, for good and for bad, but you are from the Socialist Party, and therefore you have to remember the GALs and you have to remember that the first...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u235	Let's get to the point, to the point...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u236	...the president of the government who was to declare a trial...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u237	On the subject, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u238	...was his companion Felipe González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u239	Quiet. On the subject. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I just said it. I think if you've heard from me that I've just told you to go to the subject. You don't have to remind me, I told you. On the subject, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u240	Mr. Abel Losada was talking about training. Of course I do. You didn't talk about automation, which is what this initiative is about, you didn't talk about training. And the model of the winning PSOE of training we don't want it for Galicia, we don't want it anywhere. The formation model of the Socialist Party, the "winner PSOE", the "PSOE won", that model is not what we want; that is the model of the funds derived from this misrepresentation. I don't know if you remember the training funds for the ERE case, we don't want it here. Because you know what is the result of these corruption cases that affected your party with the employment funds of the Andalusian Board? There are 900,000 unemployed today. And that will be the winning model for you; for us, of course, in no way. Nor is it Besteiro, Pachi Vázquez, Abel Caballero, Pichurri or a government charged up to 35% of its members. That's your model. That's not our model. [[Murmurs.]] Look, let's talk about the automobile... You've got... you're right, you're right: I forgot Orozco. [[Murmurs.]] It's a scandal, it's a scandal that from the Socialist Party comes to teach lessons, it's a scandal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I'm here to talk about cars.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u241	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u242	I'm here to talk about cars.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u243	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u244	Look, the employment in the Welsh automobile... the employment in the Welsh automobile is growing, the employment in the Greek automobile is growing, bad for the Socialist Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Since 2012 there have been 1,350 new jobs in the Galician automobile, thus reaching 20,000 direct jobs, which Mr. Abel Losada gives exactly the same. Mr. Casal, today there are more people working on the Greek automobile than in 2009, than in 2009. You don't care. Look, you were talking, Mr. Casal, about relocation, and I'm telling you, about relocation, nothing. There is no Greek company that has closed to transfer its production to Portugal, as you have pointed out in your intervention in the inquiry; there is no, there is no, there is no, there is no. So you're setting up a catastrophic scenario that has nothing to do with reality. The Greek automobile goes well, goes the right way and, of course, relies on the support and support of the entire German Government. Look, Cluster data. Investments in the sector over the past five years have been EUR 1 billion. You're talking about abandonment that's not real, it's not real. Look, there's no problem with financing in the automotive sector, there's no problem. There are funds available, if necessary; if there are projects to invest, there are enough funds available in the Igape and the Galega Innovation Agency. Igape already has enough professional staff; I don't know what you want to insinuate; you already have enough professional staff. Tracking the projects is done entirely by Igape and the Galician Innovation Agency, in all cases. External agents are only used when the specialization of the matter so requires, only in those cases. You propose a dialog table that already exists. The dialogue with the Government of Galicia has it with the Cluster of Automotion. Another thing is you don't recognize him. And look, I have to tell you that you have to have courage to bring this initiative. It's valuable because I believe that this initiative is actually part of the bad consciousness that the tides of Podemos have in relation to the automotive sector. Bad conscience because, when they were still called Alternative Left Galaga, you voted against the survival of the cornerstone of Galician automobile, which is called Citroën. Bad conscience is that it brings you here, and I have to tell you bad conscience because these days, from your party, from Podemos, they have maintained that fairness in relation to the French elections. And I have to tell you that a candidate, of course not supported by the Popular Party, Marine Le Pen, was to recover all the production of French companies in French soil. I didn't hear We can say anything about that. Look, you have to have a lot of courage to come here to do a face wash, to say they defend the automotive sector, because they had a chance to do it and they did exactly the opposite. And I have to tell you one thing: listen to you talking about Igape's help the truth is that it's like listening to the wolf telling the story of Red Caperucite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u245	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Author of the motion group, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u246	Good afternoon again. In fact, I understand, above all at this hour, that my previous intervention could bore many of the honourable Members, especially the People's Group, and they will think: what a burden this gentleman is speaking, proposed after proposal, and so up to twenty proposals! So, Mr. Tellado talks about the GAL, he talks about the PSOE, he talks about the ERE, he talks about France... of course they have no interest in talking about the industrial sector of the car in Galicia. That's reality, they don't. [[Applause]] It seems that Mr. Tellado is also in the theory that the best industrial policy is the one that does not exist. So they go on and talk about the past, and they talk about 20 years ago, ten years ago, but what we have to talk about is the future, we have to talk about the future. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's obvious... No, Citroën's is an absurd manipulation, because it has nothing to do with the reality of what you've been talking about. It's not true, no. Clearly, industry is not interested, it's obvious, and more and more, and it's clear. They should read the book of Ibex 35, which develops very well the theories that you are implementing, and can also help them implement them much better. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Money is made with money, only to attack public services, privatize them and do business with them instead of producing, because, of course, that of producing things to then sell them is a roll; having to negotiate with workers, having to negotiate with unions, that's a real can. And no, Mr. Tellado, I didn't talk about relocation today. It's true, I recognize it. In the last debate I talked about, I have named the subject of the fact that all new companies have been established in Portugal for the last five years, I have called it relocation; it is true, it is not relocation: it is the deployment of all new companies in Portugal and none in Galicia for the last five years. And I recognized the error of the word: it's not development, it's desertification of new industries in Galicia, it's another word. Obviously, you only talk to the Cluster. Actually, but it's just that the car industry isn't just four gentlemen who dominate the Cluster, it's much more than that. And we talk to all those entrepreneurs, to all those workers, and they don't feel completely represented in the policies that the cluster develops, which only favor certain companies. And so, for example, in most R+D+i development they are forced to go with one of those companies that dominate the cluster, which then take most of the help. And I'm sorry, actually, that they get bored. But if the government doesn't develop industrial policies, they'll hear us again many times more, because such an important sector can't stand up for it, waiting for a government that really bets industry, and for the fundamentally sustainable and value-added industry. That's the summary. I hope that next time we're serious about the proposals to develop this industry and others answer what's going on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u247	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u248	...and don't go out with the LAGs, France and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u249	On the amendment of the Socialist Group, do you accept it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u250	Yes, we accept the amendments because they actually complete the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u251	Thank you. [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Díaz Villoslada, why do you want the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u252	I ask the word for allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u253	But that was the debate already... we'll leave now... No, no, no... no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr. Villoslada. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u254	We're going to vote on the motions. [[Murmurs.]] Silence, please, let's vote, which is very important. We voted on the motion by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to subsidies and aid to local authorities. The amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego is accepted and the amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to subsidies and aid to local authorities. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u255	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of transparency and good governance. G.P. Motion vote. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of transparency and good governance. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u256	We vote now... Sorry? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u257	Yes, we would like to call for a point vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u258	Do you ask for the vote on points from which you will now come, from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in order to regain employment in the automotive sector and its components? Do you accept the point vote, Mr. Casal? It's up to you to say if you accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u259	We accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u260	Accepts the vote by point. So, can we group them? Tell me how we can do it. Give Mr. Tellado a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u261	Yes, we would like to request a separate vote of points 9, 10, 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u262	We therefore vote points 9, 10, 13 and 14 of this motion. Vote of points 9, 10, 13 and 14 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal and Mr. Luis Villares Naveira, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece to regain employment in the automotive sector and its components. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. These points of the text were therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u263	Let us now vote on the rest of the points of the motion. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal and Mr. Luis Villares Naveira, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to regain employment in the automotive sector and its components, except points 9, 10, 13 and 14. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected except for points 9, 10, 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u264	Before opening the doors, I beg all of you to keep a minute of silence as a sign of repulsing by the violent death of a minor in the corrupt Oza-Cesuras Town Hall, an event of what we had known this morning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u265	Thank you. We move on to the fifth item on the agenda, non-legislative proposals. We begin with the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Council before the Ministry of Development to reduce the rates of AP-9 and to avoid the cumulative annual rise of 1% tolls for 20 years from 2018 onwards. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, on the actions to be carried out by the Galician Union before the Ministry of Development to reduce the rates in AP-9 and to avoid the cumulative annual rise of tolls of 1% for 20 years from 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u266	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales and by the Group on the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u267	Mr Fernández Fernández has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u268	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Again, AP-9. This very morning in this House we are debating and voting on the Ditome issued by Commission 2nd, Ordering the Territory, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law to Present Before the Congress of the Organic Deputies on Transfer of Ownership and Responsibilities of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The parliamentary groups prioritize Galicia's general interest in using the flexibility tool in the text agreement and in the speed of processing, and indeed we meet: unanimous agreement in less than four months of processing. Now you must comply with Mr. Rajoy's popular government on the Congress of Deputies. We must be aware that the background does not invite the optimism of "it is done", that decisions by the Government of the People's Party with Mr Aznar and Mr Rajoy negatively condition this Parliament's objectives with regard to AP-9. From the Socialist Group we believe that they will only be, or would be, excuses of ill-paying, but that the popular government can use to delay the processing of this bill. We believe that the processing of the law is essential, but also that, while there is no real transfer of AP-9, we must promote initiatives in this Parliament that promote its use. In this context, the Socialist Parliamentary Group today brings to the House a non-legislative proposal in its title: "On the actions to be taken by the Galician Council before the Ministry of Development to reduce the rates of AP-9 and to avoid the annual cumulative rise of 1% tolls for 20 years from 2018". In 2012, being President of the Government of Spain and Minister of Development, respectively, Mr Rajoy and Mrs Ana Pastor, several circumstances which increased, in addition to provided for in the concession, the fees of AP-9: up from 18% to 21%, application of the Royal Decree Law 20/2012, of 13 July, expressly derogating Article 8 of the Royal Decree Law 6/1999, of 16 April, from urgent measures to liberalise and increase competition, which established a compensation which the General Administration of the State would liquidate to concessional companies of highways to pay for the loss of income that would have brought them down by a 7% of the rates. On December 26, 2012, Mrs. Minister, Ms. Ana Pastor, signed a protocol with the Audasa dealership in which she ratified the terms of Royal Decree 1733/2011, and included the free return of travel on the Pontevedra-Vigo tranche, or vice versa, for tele-payers. In particular, an additional annual increase of 1% of cumulative tariffs for 20 years, which would enter into force on 1 January of the year following the end of the works, was authorised or authorised, expected in 2018. And Audasa was committed to building new lanes in Santiago de Compostela's roundabout, including movements in the south direction of Sigüeiro's link. He was also committed to building new lanes in the Cangas link frame, in the Teis link, the extension of the Rande bridge, and also committed to new performances in the Coruña, Vilaboa and Pontevedra. The value of the associated investments would be close to EUR 400 million. On the other hand, in the budgetary exercises between 2008 and 2011, the public works bid to be held in Galicia by the General Government of the State exceeded, on average, EUR 1,100 million per year — official data. In budgetary exercises ranging from 2013 to 2016, this last incomplete year, the average is just over 250 million euros per year, a quarter of the previous year. Although we had taken into account the 2011 exercise in which the bids were made from previous government decisions, the average would barely exceed 500 million euros per year. Ladies and gentlemen, the report on the proposal for an organic law on the transfer of the title and powers of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia leads to page 3 with the following paragraph: "The AP-9 is a state-owned highway that covers a very important part of the territory of Galicia, it is a vertebral road that connects the entire Atlantic Strip and five of the seven major cities. However, AP-9 continues to depend on the Central Government, which maintains unabated tariffs that limit access to this route to people with less resources and disrupts the development of the Greek economic sectors." This we approved this morning, during the bill. So there's an express recognition that AP-9's tariffs are inescapable to both the economic sectors and the Greeks. Let me add other AP-9 forts. It has a decisive role in the integration and articulation of the urban system of Galicia, promoting mobility and ordering and generating road communication systems. It's the access platform, through seven very important autonomous routes, to the three airports and ports of general interest, except San Cibrao. It is located in the area of residence around 60% of the population of Galicia, which is resident in that space, and 70% of Galicia's economic activity. It's the confluence line of social, commercial, economic and industrial movements. Finally, a fundamental instrument of internal vertebration in the social and economic sectors, but also plays a worthy role in external connectivity. They put us at the gates of the Cantabrian Cornixa, they approach Portugal by Tui, and allow us to connect with Castile-Leon and the center of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, AP-9 was born with the vocation to be a dynamizer, to play the role of permanent opportunity for growth for Galicia, to generate an added value to which the beneficiaries were — I repeat, they were — users and the territory. Today, the social perception is that these opportunities for the economy of the Greeks and the Greeks are becoming an unbearable burden for families and businesses. The Ministry of Development itself places AP-9 as one of Spain's most expensive for the different categories of vehicles. It seems clear that, with the current model of peaxes, the Galicians and the Greeks we always lose and the concessionaire always wins. We must therefore change; change the title, as we agreed this morning, and also change, as long as it's not a reality, the policy of fees and fees. And this initiative of the Socialist Group goes on that line, it fits more strongly at this time when the popular governments of Spain and Galicia often repeat economic recovery. And it is clear that they certify it in the state's general accounts for 2017 and so on, with EUR 3,500 million to rescue the highways, the so-called "radials" of Madrid, and EUR 4.245 million for the Basque Country. Mr. Rajoy preaches recovery and stagees it in the budgets. It's a shame it's to create more inequality: save businesses and condemn workers. It commits EUR 849 million for each of the five Members of the VNP for the Basque Country, and EUR zero for each of the twelve Members of the People's Party of Galicia in the Spanish Parliament. If this is consolidated and is not corrected by accepting proposals such as those we are debating, we will accuse the President of the Irrelevant Union in Madrid and the consensor of Mr Rajoy's inequalities by discriminating negatively against the Greeks and the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, it is fair that the General Administration of the State compensates Galicia for the investment deficit made over the past four years. It's fair that this compensation leaves with no effect the cumulative sum of 1% and even recovers the 7% bonus removed in 2012.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u269	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u270	If this initiative of the Socialist Group is adopted, these two objectives can be real by 2018. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Then you have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u272	Good afternoon. With this theme of AP-9 comes that sentence of Celso Emilio Ferreiro: "God gives us wrath, that patience we have enough." God gives us wrath, that patience we already have enough, indeed. This theme gives to anger and also, the truth, to perplexity. I have to say that it gives to surprise and perplexity to see how there is an initiative by the Socialist Party on AP-9 to solve a situation that is a consequence, among other things, of decisions made by the PSOE government itself in the state. Because, I don't know, you had an amnesia episode there, and you talked about decisions made by the People's Party government. But we have to say the clear things, and the situation we are talking about on this initiative has to deal mainly with an agreement taken by the Socialist Party ruling in Madrid, with José Blanco as Minister of Development, who has come into an agreement with Audasa for the works of expansion of the capacity of AP-9 which had implied the rise of the 1% tolls for twenty years. It is true that later the People's Party took that initiative, that agreement, and confirmed it, ratified it and worsened it too, Mr. Rajoy, Mrs. Ana Pastor, with pleasure, the blessing and applause of Mr. Feijóo, with Decree 104/2013, and also with all the increases in the rates, the highest in history in the period 2012-2013, which amount to 16% in this small period of time. But the root of this question has to do with a decision. You can't forget and obvious a fact like this, which has so much transcendence in this matter. In fact, the People's Party made a propagandistic appropriation, and with autobomb, of the PSOE government agreements with Audasa. And the minister and Mr. Feijóo came here to inaugurate the bomb and plate the works, and to assume that big investments would be made for nearly 400 million euros, which we will pay through the taxes and budgets of the state. That's the reality. Nothing new on the part of the People's Party. That's what he's always doing; i.e., conviviality, complicity and complicity with the concessionaire, I'm dealing in favour of friendly companies with the extension of the concession up to 2048, with so advantageous privatization of private capital — and I'm not going to talk here about the concessionaire's own companies — and about the increase of the fees, which amount to 36% since 2010. So it's a reason for anger, and more than for anger, that we've been trying to transfer the title to Galicia for more than fifteen years, and that it is systematically denied by governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. It's a reason for anger, and more than for anger, that we have to see every year the balance of Audasa's results and how in AP-9 they have a real filon, a gold mine, to perpetrate a real legalized cop, a scam. The reason for anger is, for example, to see in the dealership's reports the forecast of income, between 2011 and 2048, of 9,561 million euros. And, above all, it is cause for anger the aggravation that we have just attended with that Spanish Government memorandum in which it has already communicated to the European Union that will be allocated in the years 2017 to 2018, EUR 3,500 million for the rescue of the highway ruins, including the Madrid radials, also owned by friendly companies of the People's Party. Therefore, the situation is more than for anger, for much more than for anger. And we see, in addition, as if they continue to produce repeated and repeated episodes of ill-management of AP-9, lack of conservation, reduction of personnel, in view of the passivity and permissiveness of the People's Party, which does not do anything much that already in 2014 Mrs. Ana Pastor had announced to us what would be done by a global audit -- in addition to an information file, a global audit -- about AP-9. We don't know what that global audit was. I don't know if the spokesperson for the People's Party can explain anything to us about it. Of course, the BNG has already proposed strong measures to penalize, resolve and prevent these situations. We're not going to talk about state budgets anymore because tomorrow we're going to talk about that issue. In any case, the data from the dealership and the data from 2016 show a profit of EUR 45 million, with revenues of EUR 138 million — more than enough to finance the works of capacity-building—. And, therefore, we are going to defend that this is the way to finance these works and not a new rise in the fees or state funds of state investments, which must be destined for other purposes, because there is a need for the improvement of the rail network, for the improvement of the road network, for the improvement of airports or for the improvement of ports.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u273	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u274	And, of course, we also defend in our amendments the reduction in rates with bonus systems, as all state highways have. So we're going to fight, even if we bother, even if we're uncomfortable, we're going to fight everywhere. And, of course, we're going to do it out of justice, out of dignity, to end this shame and to get an AP-9 Welsh and free from abusive sins. We'll do it with patience and also with anger, with great anger!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u275	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal Ogang.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u276	Good afternoon, everyone. From Marea we share that the prices of the AP-9 fees are a scam and are an impediment to Galicia's social and economic development. And we also share that the fall in state investment in Galicia is unfair and does not meet rational criteria. But in this case we understand that a fall in the prices of the fees must run to the Audasa account, while being concessionary to the AP-9, because the indecent benefits that you are getting from the exploitation of this public asset give more than enough margin. And that's why we propose a replacement amendment that goes that way. In the five years from 2011 to 2015, Audasa obtained gross profits of 539 million euros; a high-income and low-cost cash-making machine. Audasa has allocated this data to four purposes: to amortize investment, to pay the financial costs derived from its debt, to tax corporate taxes and, above all, to pay back its shareholders by distributing a high dividend. Audasa has the type of interest in the payment of its highest debt on all Spanish highways: 6.1% of the average type compared to 2.6% of the whole sector, more than twice. Of the benefits of these five years' fees, it has allocated 132 million to pay to its creditors — a figure that increases staff spending by nearly 3 times. But what is most important is to pay back your shareholders. In the last five years, the net profit, after taxes, of Audasa was 186 million euros. A surprising fact of this plot is the fate of the enormous net profits. Audasa dedicates 100 percent of them to paying back their shareholders. In a company as indebted as this one, the logic would be to devote some of the benefits to strengthening the company's own funds, capitalizing itself, and thus reducing its debt. But the company does not act with this discretion and shares everything it earns among its shareholders, a decision that undoubtedly has to do with the fact that these are banks and investment funds — Pear Luxembourg Investment, Kutxabank, Abanca or Liberbank — for those who exploit AP-9 is a big financial business. In summary, out of every 100 euros that Audasa collects in fees, devotes 8 to paying the staff, 11 to the rest of operating expenses; thus earning, in gross terms, 79 euros, from those who dedicate 20 to the depreciation of the investment, 20 the interest of his debt, hand over 11 to the Company Tax, and 28 euros out of 100 who charge dividends among his shareholders in the form of dividends. Audasa's forecast report, dated 31 December 2015, for the period 2011-2048, states that the revenues of the fees in this period will reach EUR 9,561 million, with a forecast of gross profits of EUR 7,728 million until the end of the concession. By making a rule of three, and based on your own accounting data, you will get a profit of more than 1,500 million euros in this period, with interest, sharing 2,700 million euros in net profits. The data do not give rise to any doubt: with the award of AP-9 they win oligarchies and lose citizenship, another plunder of the public out of the political and entrepreneurship of the PP and the economic powers. The PP should explain why it privatized the highway at the price of a friend to Sacyr — the papers of the Bárcenes contain some clues. They will also have to explain why it allows the economic powers to cash off this public good — the many plots we are seeing these days too can give us some clues — or why, knowing the balance of benefits of Audasa, it approves the Royal Decree 20/2012, allowing Audasa to climb the beaches so that she can continue with the police at the expense of the Greeks and the Greeks. AP-9 is a vital route to the social and economic development of Galicia that the People's Party has put to the service of the economic development of the friends of the People's Party: of those who finance campaigns, of those who have made them available to political friends. This morning the People's Party in this House was the party that took charge of defending the interests of the heirs of the Franco dictator. And now we suspect that they will also come out of the defense — as they have so far done — of the interests of the shareholders of Audasa to protect the corrupt plot. See when they surprise us and they're here defending the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. And you can paint it in the color you want, you can put your drawers in the form of a headline that you want and you can make time, but what you can't do is call good management what we're here, we know it's corruption: using public institutions to get private benefits. That is their main contribution to the politics of this country, and so they will always be remembered. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u278	Good afternoon. It is paradoxical and it is a daring — as Mr Bará reminded us — that it is the PSOE who proposes a reduction in tariffs, when it was precisely the PSOE who signed the agreement, closed the agreements and brought us to this situation. It was the Government of Zapatero, being minister to Mr. Blanco, who agreed with Audasa the terms of this 1% increase. [[Applause]] Allow me, Mr Fernández, to read directly from the Official State Gazette — I have it here, if necessary, and copy it to you — literally read: "It establishes an extraordinary increase in fares on the routes with direct payment by the users of the AP-9 motorway, in all its tranches, of the 1% annual accumulated for twenty years" —Decree of 2011 signed by José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, President. This is a year before he says it. It is truly nice to forget that what really compromises this signed agreement is the decree published by the Government of Zapatero. That's what compromises him. It's a mind when in the explanatory statement it speaks of another later decree. And we can also talk about not only paying for the works. It is clear that the payment of the works was of this decree, which, moreover, allows me to remember, because it is a face... this was approved, as our colleague Alberto Pazos well remembered the other day, at Mr Zapatero's last Council of Ministers, two days before the election. And they gave the news that the works were done but they said that the conditions and how they would be paid would already be said after the elections. Great example of transparency! Yes, sir, great example of PSOE in transparency. And the press release on the day of reflection said the Ministry thought it was going to be paid with a soft, soft fee. This is what the PSOE Government said on election day, on the day of reflection. I sincerely believe that it is to be quiet about this subject of the works. But if we also talk about the payment of the fees of Rande and Barcala, of course, sign, when the Bipartite was in Galicia and Zapatero, supported by other left-wing groups, in Madrid, the payment of 6 million euros annually for this fee... of course, we've already paid 64 and we've got 180 million. Fortunately, with the agreement of the other day of our President Feijóo with the Minister of Development, from now on that money will be paid by the Ministry of Development; 180 million savings that we had to bear because of the management of the Bipartite in Galicia and, in particular, the Government of PSOE in Madrid. And we would all like it to be paid less to pay, and even if it was free. I'm going to use data from the latest report published by the Ministry — 2015 report — on the area of highways to pay in Spain. Because it happens that the AP-9 is below the average of the 21 highways to pay in Spain, and it's also at item 12 of 21 at the cost. Obviously, we would all want him to have less to pay, and, if he can be, none, all of them! But let's talk about clear data. And when we have to talk about beaches, I think who can breastfeed is the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, because the two autonomic highways, AG-55, Coruña-Carballo, and AG-57, Puxeiros-Val Minor, are the cheapest in Spain, with 0.079 euros/kilometre, the cheapest in Spain. And it was the only government, the only one that applied to the users of these highways. The only one! [[Murmurs.]] This government didn't create the fees, but it was the first to implement subsidies to reduce costs. I know they don't like us talking about the fees, but, of course, this is the policy of the PP government, which, in addition to the worst years of crisis made 210 kilometers of high-capacity tracks free of charge. This is the policy of this government and that is why it has the support of its citizens. Let me remind you of one last thing, because they always talk about the Circulations of Madrid. You know perfectly well that's not the case, because that's a situation that survives a breach and a court order in a company's contest for an obligation of law. And in addition, they know that the other day the minister has already come forward that they will bid again and that therefore the Government will not put that amount. So don't lie, because they know it's like that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u279	Finish, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u280	I'm done, Mr. President. I know the truth doesn't like to hear it sometimes, but it's their turn to listen. [[Murmurs.]] I hope Mr. Leicega doesn't mind you using, to finish and qualify this proposal, words from the spokesman for a BNG proposal, which qualified as "easy populism and pure propaganda position". Let this present the PSOE, when it is solely responsible, I believe it is demagogy and political opportunism. Coherence and responsibility show little. We, in demagogy and political opportunism, will not be. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. You have the floor, to close the debate, the author group of the non-law motion, Mr. Fernández Fernández, to whom I ask you to stand with regard to the amendments also tabled by the two groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u282	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Prado, a pact, a proposal, you know well that it has neither political nor legal validity. And you also know very well that whoever signed the protocol was Minister Ana Pastor, being President Mr. Mariano Rajoy. You're also well aware that the number of people who went up the EVI from 18% to 21% in the beaches was a popular government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know perfectly well that whoever cancelled the 7% bonus in 2012 was also a government of the People's Party. [[Applause]] And you know well that whoever dropped the bid from 1 billion a year to less than 500 million a year in public works bidding in Galicia was a government of the People's Party and not a socialist government. So we can say what you want, but the facts, the realities, are what they are. See, AP-9 is a recognized instrument of reception and internal and external distribution of daily mobility in Galicia. Today, with the approval of the dictatorship for the transfer of title, we also approve its content. And he was saying — I repeat once again why we approve it — that AP-9 maintains unabated rates that limit access to this route to people with less resources and disrupts the development of economic sectors in Galicia. And you seem to be delighted with the current rates. Mr. Fernández Prado, we are concerned about your intervention both in the morning and this afternoon: yes but no, it will be very difficult. On the other hand, it accords with the decisions of the people's governments over the last few years in position with the concessionaire. Remember, with Aznar as president and Feijó as councillor of the Territory and Public Works, the extension of the concession for twenty-five years. Or don't you remember? With Rajoy of President, Ana Pastor of Minister and Feijóo of President of Galicia, the rise of VAT from 18% to 21%, elimination of 7% of bonus, permitfulness in the fall of the tender less than half of the previous years and signature of the protocol. Mr. Fernández Prado, the precedents of popular governments, including Mr. Feijóo, do not stand in the line of favoring Galicia, the Greeks and the Greeks, as do not include the demonstrations of the inclusto montoro: "We come from a crisis for a public spending drunk and some already want to leave for drinks." It's obvious that Mr. Montoro was a drinker, not with you, but with the PNV Parliamentary Group. Look at the event in similar matters while you're quiet:...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u283	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u284	... unlocking the AVE to the Basque Country, which includes the construction of a closed access to the stations of Bilbao and Victoria, from AVE to Ourense, nothing at all. Complete chronogram describing investments with the commitment that the Basque "y"... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u285	Please finish, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u286	...will be fully operational in 2023 and the connection with France will be completed in 2025. From the AVE Lugo-Ourense, from the AVE Vigo-Ourense, from the exit south Vigo-Portugal, nothing at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u287	Mr. Fernández, take your position on the amendments, please. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u288	I'm done, Mr. President. Obviously, the PNV Group, the Vasco Group, were on Mr. Montoro's glasses. You, the Galician People's Group in Congress and the German Government... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u290	...they have arrived—allow me or similar—
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u291	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u292	...at the moment of the hangover, when the fish was already sold.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u293	Thank you very much. What is the position regarding the amendment of the BNG and the amendment of En Marea?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u294	We can't accept amendments from BNG and En Marea. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u295	What is the position — I'm sorry I didn't hear it — regarding the amendment of the BNG and En Marea? I just didn't listen, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u296	We can't accept them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u297	Good. Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made to the central government in relation to single-parent and single-marental families with two dependent children under the age of 18 or older with some type of disability equal to or greater than 65%
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u298	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea was tabled on the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u299	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u300	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are now presenting an initiative by the Socialist Party. I am a member of a party of what I feel tremendously proud of. I don't know if it could be so much if there was a president of government like Mr Aznar, who recently said, "I've never had a better picture than that of the Azores." Load with thousands, hundreds of thousands of deaths, behind their backs. [[Applause]] That's why, when they talk about murder, I ask for caution, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Applause]] Well, let's get to the point. Of the more than one million homes in Galicia, about 10.2% belong to families where there is an adult with at least one minor in charge. It's what's known as monomantal families, or monoparents. This is a growing reality, and it's tremendously feminized. 82% are women, according to INE data. This typology has suffered a great increase in recent decades. There are two reasons: on the one hand, volunteers, that is, women's freedom to be either mother or not, and whether or not with a partner, which has been consolidated over the years; as well as the increase in separations. And there are some who are forced to happen, because, for example, by the death of the progenitor, or -- what is, unfortunately, so present -- by cases of male violence. Today, sadly, there was a batterer who again used the children as currency, who used the children to irreversibly harm a woman, who used the tool with which he knew he was doing more harm to a woman. Whoever sees his partner as a property — and we have to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, also those of the People's Party — cannot consider his children and daughters as a subject of rights. That's unnatural, that's impossible to understand. A bully will never be a good father. And we must repeat this message one day after another out there too. [[Applause]] And in addition to making minutes of silence, it's very important to put in place measures to protect these children who are left alone. That's why he recently returned the shame and roller of the People's Party in the Senate, which passed the knee to an initiative that intended to give the orphanage pension to those children who were victims of violence. They're very nice about the minutes of silence, but they're better off if they're accompanied by measures to protect these children. Despite the fact that we are already used to the very extreme figures of poverty on the subject of the economic crisis, it is true that the collective of these families is invisible. Their data of poverty, with regard to INE data, are twice as much as those of two-parent families. And one more fact: 25% are in severe poverty. Given that they always, in all cases, have at least one child in charge, there are children and children who suffer from the effects of poverty and exclusion, twice as much as in the cases of a two-parent family, something that we consider tremendously unjust. This reflects the Foesa survey in several ways. Of course, if we note that in 82% of these families the head of the family, so to speak, is a woman, these families have all those negative aspects, those evas, that in their day-to-day encounters women. The first is employment and conciliation, many mothers are excluded from the labour market — 52% in Foesa’s data; lack of conciliation measures; housing — four out of ten single homes do not have enough money for household expenses — in health, among children living in these homes, one out of three is in health-related exclusion situations, one out of four no longer buy drugs or follow a treatment or diet for economic problems. Then there are the support networks, which, if in a family with two adults it is practically impossible to reconcile, because in this type of family it is still more difficult — double, according to this data. It must be borne in mind that there is a clear lack of visibility of these problems, of these families, and already the very valuator of the people has insisted that they have a special category that resembles them to families of many special categories. The measures in Galicia are completely insufficient. There were most of them put in place by the two-party government, others by the evil, the evil, the Zapatero government. And then there's a family support law in 2011, which what he did was -- and we rejoice -- to make a cut—I don't know exactly what it was -- and to include them there; a law that, by the way, must be of the little saving that he has, because we know it as "the law of the family forum," since it was a retrograde law that prevented women from making progress. At the beginning of the year, an initiative was adopted that urged the Government to put in place a specific aid programme for these types of families. On the day we discussed this initiative, Mrs Martínez Arias put us to the opposition that the amendments that we tabled, despite the specific deadlines for drawing up and budgeting them, did not specify any concrete measures. We take note and today we bring an initiative with very concrete things that we think can improve the lives of these families. In particular: to urge the Government of Greece to take measures for monomantal and single-parent families with two dependent children under the age of 18 who suffer from some type of disability in a degree equal to or greater than 65 per cent; to increase the autonomous deduction of IRPF with the full autonomous share of IRPF, which equates it to the maximum tax deduction that has large families of special category, where and when no more than 24,000 euros of taxable base are exceeded; to develop an income guarantee programme for those families with gross annual incomes of less than 12,000 euros; to consider these families in a vulnerable situation a priority group in relation to unemployment to facilitate their inclusion; to establish care measures in the housing of monomantal families, and to assist rent; to recognize discounts in transport; to reduce for families the registration rates in selected processes or recruitment lists for employees of the Board of Galicia. And we added to put on duty and urge the Government of Spain to change the consideration of these families to resemble the many. It is true that it has already been approved by this plenary session, but as it seems that the issues we vote here unanimously to move to the Government of Spain must remain on the way, it is no longer repetitive and insist that this necessity be transmitted to the Government of Spain. Finally, this initiative humbly aims to improve the day-to-day lives of these thousands of families who are facing a situation of inequality and who are in a situation worse than the two-parents, than in the 21st century because we believe this is not fair. We look forward to the support of all parliamentary groups. As far as En Marea's initiative is concerned — what it does is to correct timely cases, and welcome — it will not give us any kind of problem. But above all, I hope that on this occasion the People's Party, which was willing to urge the Galician Union to prepare a strategy for these families, since it seems that there are no ideas to put them into action and write on those leaflets, because it takes note and approves what we present today. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u301	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u302	Thank you, good afternoon. From En Marea, of course, we will support this PSOE initiative, because we understand that in our society, economically and socially unequal, the monomantal family — well called, in the sense that more than 80% are made up of women as supporting figures of those families — suffers in this kind of society even more at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and even worse conditions for reconciling working and family life. So we support this battery of initiatives. It seems to us that well-made social transfers, employment policies aimed at well-made and well-developed vulnerable groups, yield results. This can be seen in reports on the effectiveness of social policies comparing States with others. The reality, for example, of the Scandinavian States with regard to the Spanish State is quite different, but welcome are these proposals. The interesting thing is that they could be applied effectively. We support them, we think it's a question of justice. We are talking, as has already been pointed out here, both today and in the debate that we have had in that plenary -- I don't remember when I was -- of a kind of family suffering from a risk rate of poverty above 50 per cent, and this has greatly increased in recent years. And we're talking about applying specific measures for these families, which is to highlight two aspects of our reality that are a scourge in Galicia: feminization of poverty, much related to the worst working situation of women in our country, and child poverty. And, by the way, the latest data from the report drawn up by the European Network on Poverty warn that the increase in poverty is particularly worsening among young people, but especially among the children's population, which increases 7.3 points. That's why In Marea also in this plenary brings an initiative, an appeal to the Government, about the assessment she makes with regard to this data. That is why implementing such measures directly involves eliminating or attempting to alleviate child poverty. We say "try to beat" to the extent that, as the rapporteur of the initiative himself has already pointed out, these specific measures do not come to this collective if they are not accompanied by an extension of the network of children's schools, of conciliation resources, of the derogation of labour reforms which remove rights to the working class, and in particular women, in the sense that the possibility of reconciliation, of wider maternity and paternity permits, equal and untransferable, and that we finally achieve equality in that sense as well. The amendments we make go not only to correct the language to change "child" to "lower" but also to frame, in some respects, other kinds of families that are in practice monomantal, insofar as they can have a minor in charge without being a biological child or child. We can talk about extended families consisting of only one adult person in charge of minors, which are precisely also families that have a high vulnerability in this sense. To act against child poverty — we will have an opportunity to expand it in our interpellation — is to act against the consequences that children and children, if they fall into poverty, will suffer all their lives in terms of lower physical, psychological and educational development. It's a grapple that our societies must take more into account. It was the anti-poverty organizations that put this debate in the lecture when even the administrations refused. By the way, the president of the Union, Alberto Núñez Feijóo and the former president of the Madrid Community, the famous Ignacio González, coincided with the denial of child poverty in 2014. Fortunately, then — at least, the Union — rectified. It is now necessary to reform and extend policies much more. Finally, we also found it interesting in the explanation of reasons for this initiative the question of prejudice. We're seeing a new reality, a reality that once suffered many prejudices from women who had children or daughters alone. And prejudice, precisely, fights with rights and fights by never letting people who bet for coming back years back in that sense win us. And there's, for example, the transsexual collective. They also fight prejudice against them. Fortunately, the Galician society fought us last week against that "bus of shame", they also fought with rights and with that law that is there at the doors in Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u303	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, you have the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u304	Good afternoon. BNG will also support this initiative. In fact, at the end of January, at one of the first plenary sessions, at the first plenary session, we discussed this issue on the basis of an initiative presented at that time by the People's Party. And he was already referring at that time to the need to actually make this reality visible. Because monomantal families—I would also like to insist on "monomantals" because the data are more than eloquent, because we're talking about that, in a percentage above 80 percent, women facing this kind of family with a single adult, adult person in front of them— are obviously an increasingly persistent reality. But it's also evidence that will not agree to the social visibility and recognition of these families with the reality and the number they assume at the social level. There's data that establishes that it can be 10% of the family nucleus of monomantal families. Then there's also evidence that it's a tremendously feminine reality, so I insist on monomantal reality. That's why we need to articulate effective policies in the gender approach that adapt to this reality of women with minors in charge. And then I agree with what Mrs de En Marea said that it is good for us to speak in the broad sense of "minor office", which does not always have to be children. For most of these homes with an adult person at the front are women -- between 85% and 90%, we can say -- with very different realities, both because they're monomantine and their socio-economic reality. But what is a reality is that the percentages of poverty and children and children in poverty are much more intense in these monomantal families; situations of risk of exclusion, risk of poverty or directly without risk, but directly immersed in situations of poverty and exclusion. I referred to the former full of not only the need to bring about initiatives that seek to do something, but the need for these initiatives to be equipped with concrete proposals, concrete initiatives, with concrete economic resources. The People's Party refused on that occasion to accept the amendments we presented in that direction. I hope that today's initiative, not as an amendment, is better than the Socialist Party, but as an initiative itself, because it is clear that it is not enough with declarations of intent, that these intentions must be given and implemented. Just like the question that many families are considered to be those who have two minors in charge, because, in addition, it is agreed that this is the case. I still don't understand why this consideration is made for widows and not for other kinds of people, something that was approved in the State budget accompaniments in 2008, or why also in 2003 an amendment was made to accommodate as numerous families the families with a widow and two minors in front. I think it's a nonsense and I don't understand why we need to bring it back to this Parliament and other parliaments, where it has also been approved, and that it can't be solved. Frankly, it's obvious that this is exclusively an ideological position, because it has no other explanation. In short, BNG supports this initiative and I hope that we will not have to continue to insist on these issues because it is already approved and, after approval, it will become effective, because it is then the second part; that is to say, after it is approved here, that there is a will to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u305	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mrs Rodríguez Arias has the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u306	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs Blanco, ladies and gentlemen, on January 25, exactly three months ago, we adopted a People's Party initiative at the plenary session of this Parliament, an initiative which was adopted with the votes of the People's Party, the Socialist Party, the Nationalist Bloc, and the abstention of the Group of En Marea. That initiative of the People's Group that we discussed and approved three months ago was that the Galician Union had drawn up and approved a programme of assistance specific to single-parent families; and that it had also called on the Government of Spain to amend the legislation on single-parent families with two children or two dependent children, in order to ensure that they were considered numerous families. So three months later, we see that the Socialist Group presents an initiative in this plenary, where they call for concrete measures for single-parent families and ask the Government of Spain to amend the legislation on single-parent families with two minors or older persons with disabilities, so that they are considered numerous families. I have the impression -- give me the impression, eh!, you can correct me, Mrs. Blanco -- that this is an initiative already vu of the Socialist Group, because if we discussed this subject three months ago, we have adopted this initiative by most, except for the abstention of the En Marea Group, we don't know what happened after these three months. By the way, an initiative that was adopted and did not stand in the way, Mrs. Noela, because the Unity of Galicia has already urged the Central Government on 3 March to amend that legislation concerning numerous families. So, now that you want, what do we go back to insulating the Central Government when we've just installed from Galicia's board on March 3rd? You know that the Galician Union is already developing, and you're agreeing with the sector's entities, the single-parent family assistance program. Can anyone therefore explain to me this initiative of the Socialist Group? I really would like to understand it. Because look, you say that the People's Party initiative had no concrete measures, but that is that that day the Socialist Party did not know exactly what specific measures it wanted to include, because, if I knew it, it would have tabled an amendment telling the People's Party that the six measures you proposed today were included in the People's Group initiative. But you needed three months after the People's Party brought the debate of single-parent families to this Parliament to discuss these proposals that it brings to this Parliament today. Of course, it doesn't seem like a serious debate to us, when we talk recently about single-parent families and arrive at an almost unanimous agreement, that the Socialist Group is bringing this issue back again today. Because look, to start with, you bring an initiative that limits the benefits to single-parent families, because we talked about all the single-parent families in Galicia and you talk about the single-parent families that have at least two minors in charge or one higher with a degree of disability greater than 65%. It's just that you're limiting. We talked about single-parent families, we talked about families of special consideration, we talked about numerous families, we talked about families with people over 65 years of age in charge, we talked about families with people with disabilities in charge. By the way, not only minor charges, but also ascending or descending, and with a degree of disability equal to or greater than 33%. You speak of a disability equal to or greater than 65% in your initiative today. We talked about families with dependent people and we talked about welcoming families. We think his initiative limits what we approved three months ago. And look, tell me about concrete measures. In this debate we talk about the concrete measures not only that they were going to start, but that they were currently acting from the Galician Union: preference for these families in the adjudication of a place in children's school, preference for the aid of the Bono care and the Bono conciliación - yes, Mrs Blanco, yes -, preference in access to children's homes, preference in the assessment for the perception of a Risk, preference in employment promotion and labour integration programmes, preference in the Welsh housing plan. These are the measures that after three months you come here to speak to Parliament, when we've talked about them three months ago and when they've been running, but not three months ago, a year and a half ago. So we are not going to be the ones to tell the Socialist Group what initiatives they have to present, no, God forbid! But, look at you, it could come here today with an initiative, for example, urging the Vigo Council to stop being...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u307	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u308	...—Finished, President—an officially poor council in social services; it could come here to urge him to help the Town Hall of Santiago not to reduce the aid to social entities fighting child poverty; and he could come here to speak of this famous basic income of citizenship, which is not being paid in the Town Hall of Coruña. But on single-parent families we have reached a consensus of the three parliamentary groups and with no vote against it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u309	Thank you very much, Mrs Arias. The author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u310	Thank you very much, President. First of all, thank En Marea and the Nationalist Block Galego for supporting this initiative. I accept the amendments, Mrs Vázquez Verao. I understand perfectly that it expands the collective to which it reaches, since with this substitution we would also, so to speak, put the extended welcoming families. You said, Mrs. Vázquez Verao, if I'm not mistaken, that prejudices fight with rights. It is clear that we must have a government full of prejudices so that it is constantly limiting or restricting access to rights. Look, first of all, the Socialist Group presents the initiatives it wants; firstly. And secondly, this group didn't take three months, as you said, by putting together this initiative. Exactly registered the 13th of the 2. Anyway, even if it took three months, it's less than the thirty-first year of the People's Party's government that led him to set up an initiative like this; with which, it would be less. And finally, stop ignoring the opposition in a constant way. It seems that, as you spoke in January of monomantal families, the rest of us are disabled to present any kind of initiative in this regard. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what you've been thinking or planning is that the Socialist Group is sitting, waiting for arms crossed to what the Government does, they're caught, because we're not here for that; we're here to bring initiatives and to bring proposals, which was what the Greeks and the Greeks voted for, not to wait to see how they don't do their job. [[Applause]] Look, to me, it seems to me — and allow me to express myself, which I suppose is, Mr President — the face of reinforced cement that the Government that has stripped its pockets of the Town Hall is now demanding economic investment to maintain its services. You set examples of various municipalities. I'm not going to speak of the City Government of Ourense, God set me free!, which is not able to approve any budgets; of that I refuse to speak. Look, but if you like, we're talking about the Vigo Town Hall, because we don't have any kind of complexes. You may also ask the Social Policy Adviser why the Vigo Council has to invest more than 13 million euros of services that are not of its competence, that the Galician Union has stopped lending, or why the Vigo Council has to have help for 3,000 emergency people because the Galician Union has abandoned those people who suffer from the delay of the risk. And we can keep talking. If you want, we're also talking about that report that was mentioned earlier, why are we the third autonomous community in the queue, according to the report of the Association of Directors of Management, in terms of rights, economics and social culture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u311	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u312	...and why we are the autonomous community that in recent years has further diminished the rights to economic and social coverage. If you want to talk about it, or the Vigo Town Hall, or any council governed by the socialists. Because we, Madam, have no prejudices or complexities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u313	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and da Luca Chao Pérez, on the creation by the Government of the Italian Book Advisory Council, provided for in the Law of the Book and the reading of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u314	This non-law proposal was presented with an amendment to the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u315	To present the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u316	Good afternoon to all and to all. So eight days later we'll celebrate the Day of Our Letters, the Day of Our Culture, and it shouldn't be a day, it should be all year round. May 17th, Letter Day, Culture Day too, is the day of the Internet; it is therefore a day of celebration and day of claim. Let's look from the telescope to the microscope and vice versa, look at tape, because it's not just the language that's threatened, but our own linguistic and creative capacity. Poetry is the founding genre of our country. This is a great pride for all; great wealth, minimal visibility. Language is production, language produces, produces communication. We need policies of cultural democratization, taking culture to where people are, our people. From the mountain to the sea the language produces thought and poetic capacity, produces gain and benefit, produces us as humans, produces us as happiness. Culture is a sector of sectors; language, production. Then the attempts of some to privatize up to the language, to leave us speechless. In our autonomous community, we have competences, but not good cultural policy designs that meet our people. Language and culture for this government are not a priority, they tend to fade; so in recent years we are seeing the reduction of 65%, 90 million euros less in recent years for culture. It tends to become something that is consumed. Neoliberalism looks at culture only as consumption; it believes it's a consumer product, just like any other commodity. Blindness or myopia, tired or blurry. We have an immense intangible heritage, we have an archaeological, artistic and historical heritage as few countries, we have true treasures. Language is a maze of paths, access to culture is a fundamental right of citizenship, a trafficking of a binding character for the states recognized by the Spanish Constitution, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. As a matter of law, culture is not only an industry, but also a service, a public good. We have a lot of uncontented collectors. Structural funds usually go to building engineering funds, not to content. We are living systematic attacks, destruction of our cultural heritage, disillusionment, in front of the defense and protection of what is ours, of what is ours. But an input voice consists of all the texts written, read by these eyes, voice, of all that we have talked about, of all that is not verbal, audible. Country pointer in cinema before competition contraction. We're a minority language, not a minority language. We belong to the same system as Portugal, Brazil, Cape Verde, Mozambique, East Timor. We can be the eighth stage, even if we don't realize it. We need remodeling, strengthening, improving, we need participating models. We understand culture as an economic engine and social integration tool. We need stories in the form of plastic images: music, crafts, stage arts, films; essential. It's another kind of food to explain the processes of change and that work as motors that push us. Party yes, because we have cultural wealth; claim also, because our country does not deserve the siege it is suffering. We need the urgent democratization of creation. "Pick me up when you pass by the place where he's gone, sending me a wet message of life and necessary wrath," Lois Pereiro. He was devoted to the Day of Letters. We need to focus properly, we're a community proud of ourselves, and we need to feel tied to the ground. Now a small translation of Casares and Bolaño: "The wind, the face to the wind, the heart to the wind, the evil to the wind, the eyes to the wind, seeking light, seeking peace, seeking God, the wind of the world." And it continued, but it's a person's date this year dedicated to the Day of Letters, which also fought for the defense of linguistic normalization, by the way. So the Language Standardization Act is not working. So there are many of the laws to be analyzed, encouraged, developed, applied, such as, for example, the draft law of the performing arts; the Law of Public Shows and Recreational Activities of Galicia; the new Act of Cinema, the Law of Museums... Many of the laws that need to be amended, reformed: Galician Cultural Heritage Act, the reform of the CGAC Centre Regulatory Decree. There are laws that you have to have your own legal personality, such as Galician Public Media Act. There are many laws that must be observed, among them, that Law of linguistic normalization, of which we were talking, and the Law of the Book. We need lucid sparks and we need to keep the law. We need poetic vibrations or phosphorescent thoughts; open a book of narrative, poetry, theater and essay, text is to open a door, a window to a world that can contain immensities. We groan and sensoryize with language. Books allow the activism of feeling and thinking. Literature as a creative essay can reflect and fight reality, but it also creates another reality. The book is a world, a world that contains nature. We share the idea that everything that is written and everything that is committed to it. We feel committed to reading and language, we feel committed to culture. That's why we bring here today this initiative related to our culture. The Law of the Book and the Reading of Galicia was unanimously approved by the German Parliament in December 2006 and published in January 2007. The English reading must develop the strategic character of our letters because of its fundamental role in the cultural and social normalization of our language. There's data without makeup. In 2010, there were 166 publishing companies; in 2014, 130; today, 34. What is this, reason for reflection or reason, of course, of claim? What's edited in English? Well, 13.1% less books in German than last year. Literary infant-youth creation has kept its numbers, textbooks as well, but it tends to fall; the ones that have fallen most are social sciences and humanity, and the scientists-technics. This is not to allow studying technology, mathematics and physics in Welsh is a root error. Casares himself claimed in this Parliament himself that it would have to be a priority to study scientific matters in English. It's not by chance. We lost more and more readers, we lost more and more speakers, we lost more and more jobs. It's precariousing culture. This is unfair. It's time to make a claim, too. Translations also present negative records, which are 15.6 % less. The rule never applied. Ten years have passed in many of the articles that have not been completed. The Advisory Council — Chapter V — should have been organized and set up as a permanent body of studies on the book sector and of advice to the autonomous administration on policies related to the book sector. That's why we here are asking, indeed, and we urge the Galician Board to set up the Book Advisory Council and we welcome the amendment proposed by the BNG to create -- we add "and convene" -- the Council and publish within one month the Master Plan of the Book, which began to begin in 2013, as well as collect in its amendment the Nationalist Block of Wales. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u317	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u318	Good afternoon, everyone. We fully agree with the relevance of this month of language, in this month of the letters, precisely, with the spirit of the initiative which he defends and which he presents today the En Marea group. I'm going to explain a little bit the reason for our amendment, of the two points that make up that amendment. I'm not going to look at the reality data from the publishing sector in Galicia either. There's a report on what I think all the people we're here are at least once looking at, very complete, prepared by the Council of Galician Culture, with absolutely demolitional data. It analyzes a five-year period, 2011-2015, and what we are facing is a brutal loss of weight in the publishing sector itself, namely, as the spokesperson for En Marea has already pointed out, with regard to the issue of scientific-technology or translation of our language from other languages. It seems absolutely relevant to us to develop and urge the Council of Galicia to develop a law that was approved in the Bipartisan Government, that three-headed government absolutely, and in addition to that it had much to do with its drafting, its elaboration and its entry into force Louis Bará, as general director at that time. We incorporate two points, the first is that the Advisory Council was created in 2008, just over a year after the law itself was enacted. The first meeting also developed in February of that same year and in it defined the lines of action that should follow the Advisory Council itself and also the four working groups that were integrated into that advisory council, which included, in addition, representatives of eight professional sectors related to the book: writers, translators, publishers, graphic arts, illustrators, distributors, libraries. Then the People's Party arrived at Galicia in 2009, called a meeting on 8 April 2010 — it was Mr. Ricardo Varela in front of Culture — and there the story died — and never said better, since we talked about literature and the book. The Advisory Council has never met again, because from our point of view — and the data so corroborate — the editorial sector is not a political priority for the People's Party in any case. There's no more to take the 2017 board budgets and see just a comparison of the previous year as you cut 200,000 euros to promote the edition of the book in English and 432A, in case you want to take a look at it. That's why we were nuanced, and it seems to us that it integrates, I understand how it adds, not only creation, but the convening of that advisory council. In addition, we are certain — and this has been expressed on many occasions by the sector itself — that there is no more to take off the phone and call from San Caetano so that all people who represent this sector so wide and so important to the cultural industries of our country, and tasty — I say, quite right — will respond to the call. In addition, we have included that second point to complete, from our point of view, the initiative, and it is the publication within one month of the book's Master Plan; a plan that, according to... — I love to see the hemerotheque; it's a professional defect, but it gives a lot of itself. On 3 April 2013 — here you can see and consult him, in addition, in the Galiza Board's Documentary Log—the Secretary General of Culture, Mr. Anxo Lorenzo, appeared at parliamentary headquarters to account for the actions to be carried out by the Greek Government on cultural policy, and announced — I repeat the date, April 2013 — the adoption and development, during that April, of the Master Plan of the book, which was also one of the work tools that would be developed in the Plan of Greek Culture, which they announced in 2013 — nothing has been done — and they will sell us the motorcycle again now in 2017. We believe that, in view of the fact that it was then announced that in April the drafting work for the book's Master Plan would begin and open a round of contacts with all representatives of the sector, we understand that one month, which is what we set in our amendment, is time and time enough for you to do so and to enter into force, something that we believe you will not vote against because it is your own promises and your announcements, unless it is also — we believe — that there was all propaganda, that there is no plan and that therefore you are voting against if you finally accept the amendment to not leave the Government itself and Mr. Lorenzo in cirolas. For our own sake, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u319	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor of Mrs Concepción Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u320	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Of course, we are going to support this non-law proposal, firstly, because we are fully involved in their spirit and their approach and then because logically, how are we not going to support a law being enforced? I mean, it's really worrying what's going on with the People's Party Government, because here I remember that almost in every full opposition comes to demand compliance with the law. The other day, in the previous plenary session, the Public Media Act, and they said no. If you're not complying with the Library Law, you're not complying with many of the articles of the law of the Greek university system, and so we could -- I say by the ones I know most -- continue with all of them. A government that doesn't comply with the laws, it's more, even the laws that it votes, some that build and write and others that votes, it's a government, at least, out of respect, incomprehensible, not to put another adjective... ineffective, in addition to. [[Applause]] This law of the book and of the reading of 2006 was, by the way, I say "it was" because, of course, as it is not complied with... a law, however good it is, if it is not met, it's no use. It was and is a very good law, developed by a joint government between the PSdEG and the BNG, a law that has what it has to have: clear objectives, good planning and, above all, a law that was consensual with the whole sector — very wide, by the way — of the book. It is a law that has been voted unanimously in this Parliament, that is to say, it has been supported by the People's Party; a law, by the way, that says and affirms that the book sector is a strategic sector for Galicia, and that is from the cultural point of view, of course, from the point of view of linguistic normalization and it is also from the economic point of view, because it is the most important company in the cultural sector. And this law that you voted on turns out they don't develop it or comply with it. The formalization of a book advisory council is one of the fundamental elements of this law, because it would be the place of meeting, debate, of the sector and of the administration, which has important advisory powers, allocations of proposals for action for the promotion of reading, it would have to develop a resource guide for the promotion of reading, drawing up reports and strategies for the promotion of the Greek book and should also issue a report — the Book Advisory Council — on all those issues related to book policy planning. And, of course, it is now understood that this advisory council does not exist, because, first, there is no planning for book policy; it is that there is, therefore, no advisory council. You don't even dare present in an advisory council anything that doesn't exist, which is a book policy planning. And that there is no such thing, of course, because the editorial sector, which has grown continuously and very important since 1980, where 187 books were published up to 2009 and 2,544 since 2010, does nothing but fall; the number of editorials falls, the number of titles falls and, above all, the number of titles falls and decreases in English. I don't have time to give some data that have been cited and that are fundamental, but only two: one, between 2009 and 2015 the publication of books in the English language came down by 43.8%, ladies and gentlemen, about 50%. If this is not serious, if this is not to sign a culture council, there are no more elements. [[Applause]] But it keeps falling, it keeps falling, because it turns out, do you know how many books fell in English from 2015 to 2016? 13.1% — Ministry's data, Ministry's ISBN. But total production in Spain grew by 8.3%. Do you know how much books in Catalan grew from 2015 to 2016? 7.2%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u321	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u322	I'm done. Do you know how much in Basque? 34.5%. When things do well, things do well, but you don't know how to do them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u323	Thank you very much, Mrs. Burgo López. The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor, Mrs Egerique Mosquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u324	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Already ending the day with the "light flashes", the "poetic vibrations of phosphorescent thoughts" of the Members of En Marea! Very nice, very melodramatic, many claims, but here we see no measures, no options! And at a meeting, you propose that the Book Advisory Council be created, but it is that the Book Advisory Council is already created, so it is very good to kill the Galician Nationalist Block, in its amendment to the meeting, because the Book Advisory Council itself was created by article 25 of Galician Book Law and Reading Law. Decree 178/2007 of 13 September 2007 regulated the composition and functioning of the Council, which first met on 14 March 2008, that is true. It's a council where the most significant sectors related to the publishing world, the world of the book: writers, booksellers, illustrators, editors. But the last meeting of that body was not in 2010, it was in July 2011, yes, it is true, and it must be remembered that any member of the sector involved in book matters, in promoting reading in English, in editorial matters, in defense of the book, can request the meeting of that council, which has not been requested since then. Why haven't you been asked since? Does it work? Do you know that the Galician Council is doing everything that Mrs. PSOE, Mrs. Burgo, says here what isn't done? Is the German Government committed and involved in promoting reading? Is that it? Is it because all the activities of the Galician Union that are developing, related to the book sector, are they consensusing sectorally? Because it is true that all the actions that are being done in terms of promoting reading in English — which, moreover, we will all agree here that this is a work of all — are things, subjects and lines of work that are being carried out in Galicia. Sectoral dialogue with the Government is guaranteed at all times, but not only in this matter, but in all matters, we are often seeing it. Counsellors may say the guidelines that must be carried out in the autonomous community for this to work, and when it does, they don't meet. This morning they were also talking about the Fisheries Advisory Council, which had not met for a few years, and when there was an emergency, and a few lines of work had to be diluted, he asked for the meeting and the attendance and met. It will then be that things work and that for this reason there is not at present any intention on the part of those involved in this council to gather it to mark the basic lines that are already being carried out. As for the setting of goals and priorities around the book, which is what we have to care about here, because that's what I say, I really liked your intervention, Mrs. Cuña, she talks, in addition, and makes quotes from authors that we all like. We could even talk about the sensations that it causes us to read a book, the novels, the tastes of each one... but here we have to talk and stick to the subject and we have to know what we have to do and what are the basic lines for us to establish and to root out the book industry, because it says that culture is not a product, but we also have to treat it as a product, because if we don't, we don't have people who want to live in culture to do it. So the Galician Union will also have to set the lines that are necessary for that. I would say that we have to take into account three lines of work in this sector, which would be: the promotion of reading, the dynamization of reading and reading in English as well, above all; another would be to boost its dissemination and another — a third — would be to strengthen the publishing industry in Galicia, and all of this taking into account, in addition, a threat to what we have to live with, which is technology and electronic format. So we have to take into account a lot of points to know exactly what the line of work on this subject can be, and above all from this Parliament, because I would also like to do here five minutes of poetic intervention and act and talk about novels and my literary tastes, but that's how we're not going to fix it and we're not fixing the cultural book industry here. For example, the most recent case is that of the Council of Culture and its team, which is in Bos Aires, with German authors, with Greek editorials, with a stand, internationalizing, because we have to sell Greek books outside too, we have to support our authors' translations so that we can also sell them out. We have to try to do a lot of work in this area so that the book can be consolidated. And I say and I insist that it is not only encouraging talent, because I have here to congratulate Vanessa Santiago, who is a 33-year-old girl from Sada, who won Saturday's first contest of the New Island prize, the editorial Galaxy. A girl, a girl -- I say, because she's under 35 -- who wrote in English, when more than 60 people showed up -- yes, it's not. [[Murmurs.]] We have to support the Greek talent, but we have to support the book publishing industry and translate our works into Welsh so that they can be sold out as well. So here a lot of literature, which we all like, but we also have to talk to facts. The policies to support the editing of the Board are very numerous, you could say them here, and the help in the acquisition of editorial news in Greek, the translation of works, also increased this year by 13.6%. So ask here to believe, first, the Advisory Council of the Book, when it's already created, that's already ill-considered. And secondly, let him meet. If the sector needs and wants a meeting of the Advisory Council, you can ask for it precisely and the Advisory Council can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u325	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u326	I'm just finishing up saying it's a committed job, and a German government with an absolute implication, with reading plans, which are increasing, I insist, Mrs. Cuña. I hope that in those three minutes you can also do us here a very interesting, melodramatic performance... but made and supported by the book sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u327	The author group of the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u328	Well, my problem must be that I read a lot. In any case, first thanks to Mrs Olaya Rodil and the Nationalist Block; also thanks to Mrs Concepción Burgo for supporting this. My perplexity cannot be greater, Mrs. Egerique, it cannot be greater. I think you just told half a lie, and half a lie is not half a truth if you really have an absolute responsibility in this. I'm going to start at the end, because they support translation. Ministry data: the translation this year, 54 translated books, 15.6% less. This is a target data. Director Uoplano, Mrs. Egerique? Ulo? It's your responsibility. They're supporting the industry. Yes, we have to support the reading plans. You'll know better than anyone who's reduced library support by 80%. I'm not talking about literature anymore, I think it's relevant to talk about literature, poetry and cinema... it's relevant when we talk about books, culture and letters, Mrs. Egerique. [[Applause]] Well, Teresa. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It costs me. And where is your implication? You say you're very happy. No, don't talk to editorials. I left the data there and I don't know where I have them anymore, but from 166 publishers to 34 in eight years it's serious, and you can't throw balloons out. It seems to me that what we're asking for is concrete, and it's simply the law's enforcement. If you say you're law-abiding, because you open accordingly, be consistent, please, and not insulting. I wasn't doing a representation, I was giving a voice to the poets, who were also awarded... well, thanks a lot, but what we need is that they support, and we don't expect anything else that you can give the Law of the Book, which is an order, a responsibility of your government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's passed, we're talking about compliance with a law. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-09-DSPG027.u329	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. At the end of the debate on this initiative, we suspended the meeting until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you very much.
