ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. Before entering the development of the agenda, I invite all of your lords and our guests to keep a minute of silence to express the condemnation of this House in front of the attack on Manchester last night and to transfer the solidarity of the Greek people to the victims and their families. [[The ladies and gentlemen, the members of the Government, as well as the staff and the public invited to the session, stand up, keep a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u2	We're already on the agenda. To comment that you have justified the inattentiveness of this plenary Mrs. Magdalena Barahona Martín and also — as it has already been moved to the spokespersons — to comment on a change in the agenda — which has to do with development today — which is that in the afternoon, after discussing the non-law proposals that correspond, we would debate the interpellation that appears in the first place and two questions also addressed to the Vice-President and Counsellor of the Public Administration. So these are the changes in the agenda, which I have to report to you. And we are now, without more, in the development of the agenda. The first point is legislative texts. Debate on the proposal for a law, a popular legislative initiative, for the creation of the public and single hospital in Pontevedra through the extension of the Montecelo Hospital
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u3	To present the bill you have the word Mr. Manuel Ángel Ricón Reguera, to whom I ask you to approach the rostrum of speakers. It'll be fifteen minutes. I pray to the House services that accompany you to the rostrum of speakers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u4	Good morning. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mayor of Pontevedra, guests of SOS Public Health. The fact that today you can hear the voice of the SOS Public Health Platform in this Parliament is a great victory for the citizen movement, these citizens who have been fighting for the fundamental right to quality and public health in Galicia for many years. The Health Council recently accepted the abandonment of the idea of a new hospital in Pontevedra to accept what our platform has been defending for many years: the extension of the Montecelo Hospital. But the population of Pontevedra's health area is fighting for a single and public hospital that solves hospital fragmentation and the lack of resources that have affected it for more than 20 years. In the health care of EOXI Pontevedra-O Salnes there are multiple problems, among them, and without a sense of completeness, the following can be mentioned: many health centers are damaged, massive and poorly equipped, which limits their resolution capacity and hinders the access of the population to health care. We just have to think about centers like Anafáns, in Poio; Soutelo de Montes as an example of decommissioning of health in rural areas; San Roque in Vilagarcia, with problems of isolation and heating; Caldas de Reis with a tremendous lack of space; for not talking about beautiful areas with us like Arcade, where saturation reaches the point of not allowing the discharge of new neighbors in the health center. Mental health services present a manifest shortage of personal resources and inadequate and poorly located care structures. The care network is rarely developed by paralyzing the Strategic Mental Health Plan that the Galician Union set up in 2009. This explains why Galician mental health professionals' ratios are, ladies and gentlemen, Spain's lowest. The mental health units of adults from Mollavao and Lérez, as well as those of infant and psychojuvenil, are poorly located and have lack of space, so they propose their transfer to the provincial hospital, whose location would make everything much easier. The psychiatric hospital unit is currently in the provincial hospital with a space designed for external consultations and not for hospitalization, far away from where the emergencies are, which as we all know is Montecelo. The lack of beds reflects the 18 available when it is estimated that the minimum for our population would be 30 beds. The continuing attention points, the CAPs, lack the diagnostic resources needed to meet the demand. We can imagine how things would be agitated with teleradiology connected to CHOP, or how fast it would be for the use of dry chemistry analysis. This is a decisive factor in the saturation of hospital emergency services, particularly Montecelo's, which suffers from recurrent collapses and obliges the sick to stay for hours in corridors, chairs or paddies. It is true that the collapses occur seasonally, but they are the result of poor planning and deficiencies. When there's more demand, it's clear that there's not enough beds or unbreakable boxes, nor is the patient's exit in the ambulances towards the provincial or home. The argument that in summer, fewer beds are needed conceals the reality of the increase in foreign population that will help collapses. The shortage of observation beds in Montecelo is the final blow to this amazing situation. The remoteness of reference services, which have been transferred from Vigo to Santiago, has important economic and assistance implications for users. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not difficult to imagine what that means for thousands of families severely punished by the crisis and austerity policies. Extrahospital rehabilitation resources are very limited and have waiting lists that require patients to derive from private centres of lower quality than the public. The most important deficiencies are space, which leads to the stacking of patients in both Montecelo and provincial. It must be added that they derive from the concerted center to patients who could be treated in primary care, like many of those who are treated in Montecelo, which would serve to decongestion and to meet pathologies of specialized physiotherapy, such as physiocardiac, auroxinecologic, respiratory, etc. In addition, there are parts of Pontevedra province that lack primary care physiotherapy units, where patients are derived from private individuals: Caldas de Reis, Ponte Caldelas, Poio, areas of Pontevedra city itself. It is necessary to create these new units and equip them with the necessary physiotherapists, in the same way that more physical therapists need to be strengthened the units that already exist. The family orientation centre has suffered important cuts that question the integral nature of sexual and reproductive health care for women in the health areas of Pontevedra and O Salnés. It's a small center, traditionally equipped with a psychologist — which depends on mental health — a gynecologist and a social worker. In recent years, Your Honor, the social worker has been removed, which was a very important piece of integral attention. Drug addiction care services are in very poor condition by budget cuts, and it is anachronism that patients suffering from addictions are treated in facilities other than Sergas, in non-sanitary spaces dependent on the municipalities, such as the Pontevedra drug addiction unit, with facilities full of deficiencies that favor the marginalization and social stigmatization of patients. The conclusions and recommendations of the Joint Congress-Seated Commission for the Drug Problem Study are not being complied with, which indicates the need for full integration into the national health system's drug networks and therefore also into the health systems of the autonomous communities. That's why we propose that this unit be relocated to the provincial hospital. Whenever we talk about relocating something in the provincial hospital, logically we're thinking about the renovated provincial hospital that would be done after the single hospital in Montecelo was built. The functioning of the Salnés Hospital is not functional because its functions and autonomy are not properly clarified. As for the rest of your EOXI Pontevedra-O Salnes assistance structures, they are not perfectly demarcated. In addition, and that is the essential motivation of this law, in the Hospital Complex of Pontevedra there are other important problems that are in close relation to the need to complete a long stage in which the absence of substantial investments in the main health infrastructure of the EOXI Pontevedra-The Salnes is horrifying. First, the Hospital Complex of Pontevedra, the CHOP, remains divided into two buildings separated by miles. This situation causes problems in the operation of services, forces professionals to waste time from hospital to hospital and, above all, causes discomfort and risks to patients and family members, as well as continuous ambulance transfers. Secondly, patient hospitalization activities are maintained in a provincial hospital that does not meet the minimum conditions of quality and comfort that must have a acute hospital in the 21st century, given the deterioration suffered by the passage of time and the absence of investments with inadequate rooms and corridors, bad smells, rodents or thermal regulation problems, which in summer give rise to high temperatures that sick, staff and visitors are forced to endure or try to palliate with fans and fans. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not the proper things for a decent and quality attention. Only public health considers it essential that the euphemism of public-private financing should not be used to hide the way to privatization of services and the view of health as a business. We want an absolutely public hospital, with free parking, that avoids access problems and that we consider unnegotiable. In this situation, constitutional deterioration to universal and quality public health, the need for optimization of the use of existing public resources and infrastructure, the convenience of a hospital care quality that prevents the generalization of delays in health planning or the preservation of the new public health system — which is an international reference — are sufficient reasons for this law to be complied with and developed in it. Throughout the above, the SOS Public Health Platform calls for the support of this House to the following articulate: "Article 1 - Extension of the Hospital de Montecelo, building the public and unique hospital of Pontevedra. Point 1. The Council of Galicia will urgently implement the necessary procedures for the construction of the new hospital in Pontevedra, in which hospital services will be integrated which are already operating in the current buildings of the hospitals in Montecelo and provincial, as well as those new services that are necessary to create to meet the population of the health areas of Pontevedra and O Salnés. Point 2. The new hospital in Pontevedra is the result of the expansion of the Montecelo Hospital, which will be built with full public funding and its management will also be fully public. Article 2. Maintenance of the health use of the provincial hospital building. Point 1. The provincial hospital building will maintain health use once the new Pontevedra hospital comes into operation. Point 2. Thus, after the necessary adaptation works, in the provincial hospital building there would be health services such as the following - and we say they would be located because the list is long and you can choose different options -: out-of-hospital emergency service, community mental health unit, a new primary care center, out-of-hospital rehabilitation service, family guidance centre, comprehensive drug addict care centre, beds for chronic patients, day-to-day hospitals for dependent people, as well as others of new creation that are needed for quality care." Ladies and gentlemen, from SOS Public Health we call for your support for this popular legislative initiative, because we believe that Pontevedra needs a health infrastructure in which its public character is guaranteed. That's what the citizenship that represents is waiting for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ricón, for staying in your seat until the debate is over. Round of parliamentary groups for a period of ten minutes. Mr Bará speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u6	Good morning. I would like, first of all, to welcome and greet the spokesperson of the SOS Public Health Platform who has just spoken to us, Anxo Ricón; also our greeting to the members of the platform who accompany us today in the public gallery; and to the representatives of the institutions and social groups who have been able to stop the People's Party's attempt to build the Monte Carrasco hospital, who have freed us from a private building and management hospital, such as the Vigo Cunqueror — who are paying and suffering all the Greeks and Greeks — who have freed us, at least, from the idea of turning health equipment into the great business of builders and banks, from friendly and financing companies, who have delivered us from a huge mortgage for the future. To all of you, the gratitude and recognition of the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, because you, all of you, artifices and protagonists of a collective achievement, are the ones you have managed to get here today to talk about the new Montecelo hospital — which we want for construction and public management — and about the health uses of the provincial hospital, which is important to know and remember history, because the decision to discard the construction of the Monte Carrasco hospital was a collective achievement of the people of Pontevedra and its urban area. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] It was a collective achievement. It was thanks to the social mobilization of citizen groups, health professionals, trade unions, community associations and municipalities, and it was also, and it must be remembered, thanks to the firm position of the municipal government of Pontevedra and its mayor, Miguel Fernández Lores, who did not yield to the blackmail of the People's Party [[Applause]] There are some who now want to hang the medal, and who have been enthusiastic defenders of Monte Carrasco, and now they don't care to defend everything else. Mr. Moreira, I won't remind you of the press headlines with your statements, because I don't want to waste time, I have little time. I don't know if you've fallen off the horse, or had a marine appearance, but now you're enthusiastically defending the new Montecelo, who now calls it great, the Great Montecelo, when before you defended everything else, exactly the opposite. But what has happened so far, everything that has happened so far, has not been an easy way, the capricious and irrational decision of the People's Party — only understandable to benefit private interests — and I don't want to remind myself now that neither has been the main beneficiary of this Monte Carrasco project, a gentleman who just struck to be mayor of Sanxenxo. That decision had serious consequences and, to start with, eight lost years, eight lost years for public health, and I assumed the deterioration of the existential quality of an area that serves 300,000 people. And it must be said so clearly, if the People's Party of Feijóo did not paralyze in 2009 the plan of the enlargement of Montecelo, which was already approved, which was already agreed, that an agreement was already signed with the Town Hall of Pontevedra, today we would have a new hospital and we wouldn't be talking about a hospital for the 1920s. And to you, who pretend to be big managers, you have to tell them: they've ruined more than 11 million euros in that Monte Carrasco project. Yes, they ruined more than 11 million euros in that failed project, fortunately, of Monte Carrasco. Also 1.2 million euros in models, this is a crime, 1.2 million euros you spent making models to present them to the media in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, with the next steps that were supposedly taking to build the Monte Carrasco hospital. First it was the basic project, a model; then the sectoral project, another model; and then the preliminary project of the work, another model. Total, 1.2 million euros, you claim to be those effective managers of public funds. You then wasted EUR 10.1 million on building a vial, a road that no one had asked for, which was not even contemplated in the MOVE Plan — which you approved yourself and that was a real mess. They spent more than 10 million euros on building a vial of just over 1 km, which doesn't take anywhere, so it doesn't lead, either, to that supposed access to Monte Carrasco, which was what those 10 million euros were spent for. And we have to tell you, too, that with that money, with more than 11 million euros, if you could build at least three health centers, or use that money to improve those health centers, those CAPs that, as you said here, are in a very precarious situation. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the first thing they'd have to do after all this is ask forgiveness. They should ask forgiveness to the people of Pontevedra and their health area for these eight years lost, for this failure of their health policy these eight years into the area of Pontevedra. At this point, we are in May 2017, we can say that a little step forward has been taken, that the bases have finally been laid thanks to that struggle, thanks to that resistance, thanks to this tenacity, thanks to that firm position of the Pontevedra Town Hall and most of the county councils; it has taken a step and established the foundations for the construction of a new Montecelo and for a reformed and renewed provincial hospital. In July 2016 an agreement was signed between Sergas, the Health Council and the Pontevedra Town Hall that ensured municipal collaboration in the project, with an estimated EUR 4 million for the acquisition and urbanization of land, and also the collaboration of the municipality in the provision of equipment and infrastructure, including spaces for public parking. And we also count -- and it's an example of greater institutional cooperation and collaboration -- with the provincial deputy agreement to make conditional access to the east turn for Montecelo and Prince Felipe. Anyway, they took steps, but, look!, we have to be realistic. At the moment, we have an announcement, a statement of intentions and little more, it is a matter of drafting the functional plan, there are 1.1 million euros in the 2017 budget, that at the pace we go — and with all those shifts that are being given to the functional plan — logically they will not be executed and spent this year, and therefore we are still at the beginning. There's a long way to go, a long way to go, and it won't be an easy way, despite all that collaboration I've already said I was lending to the Town Hall of Pontevedra. We therefore firmly believe in the opportunity and necessity of this popular legislative initiative, in its admission to the procedure, to first of all shield by law Montecelo's single hospital project and the uses of the provincial hospital, so that there is a firm commitment. The best way to have a firm commitment is to put it into a law, a law that is not subject to changes and bandages, as we have seen over the past ten years. Therefore, admission to the procedure means only the beginning of the processing of a law that then, in any case, could even have changes. The meaning of the agreement that we have to make today is that it is a guarantee to discard health from time to time as a big business of friendly companies; to ensure the health use that can be complementary to the health care partner of the provincial hospital; to avoid, too, speculation and business, as happened recently with the Galeras Hospital, which by changing the general plan it was allowed to speculate with part of this building. I've already told you that the Town Hall of Pontevedra, the current municipal government of Pontevedra, will not allow that kind of speculation with the provincial hospital. That's why the need and opportunity for this popular legislative initiative that the BNG, of course, will support to compensate for lost time; to pay a historical debt to the Pontevedra health area that caters to 300,000 people; to guarantee a universal public and quality health; to continue to win battles in the fight against the attempt to turn public health and services into a huge business; to make reality a dream why so many people and groups are fighting for; and why it's fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u7	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u8	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning to the representatives of the Pontevedra Town Hall, to the political forces of the Pontevedra Town Hall that are here today and to the members of SOS Sanidad Pública. Good morning, too, to your spokesman for this ILP, today. We want to demonstrate, first, our unconditional support for this ILP. Our support because we have been in this ILP, because we are in this ILP, because we sign it and because we vote in favour of the Pontevedra Council. We're in this ILP. We fully trust the resolution I propose, we believe it is the best solution and the best way to the future Grand Hospital in Montecelo. Given this support, we want from our group to congratulate in a different way on a number of agents participating in this process. First of all, the rapporteur said that it is a success of mobilization, it is a triumph of mobilization, and so it is: it is a triumph of mobilization. It is a triumph of the people who have been on the street, of the organizations, of the associations that have been in this defense, of the municipalities of the health area. It is a triumph that we can be here today in this debate. Congratulations, therefore, and thanks to all those people and institutions who have been in this defense. And then we want to congratulate the People's Party on the health in Pontevedra. The People's Party must be congratulated. First of all — I say first of all because they are two different things — when it comes to health in Pontevedra; firstly, because after asking for it we in this Parliament have ceased the previous manager, which we thank. It doesn't notice all the bad he did, but it assumes a certain repositioning air; therefore, that's a first congratulations. And secondly, by rectifying and turning to this position — which many of us have been defending for a long time — a large single hospital in Pontevedra with the expansion of Montecelo, not with that intention of doing a large hospital in Monte Carrasco with private funding. It is wise to correct them, and we welcome them and applaud them, because we are aware that probably not everyone in the People's Party liked them, and some people within the People's Party — many — would prefer another model. Still, there are always those who find solutions to cover up, and although there was no final project in Monte Carrasco, because the sad show -- I mean -- these days in Sanxenxo serves to compensate those people who had lost a business opportunity. In short, we believe that health planning should not be done by the builders, and that was a fear that the Monte Carrasco project overshadowed the situation, sometimes too explicitly. [[Applause]] Given these congratulations, we would also like to point out some questions about this future project. First, consider a redundancy, which seems to be tatological: enlargement is enlargement. This means that it's not about making a hospital that's just bigger, it's not about more concrete and more space than there is; it's about not building something bigger to do the same. It's about building a larger hospital, expanding Montecelo, or actually having a greater number of services, better quality of services. Let's not make a bigger hospital to finally have the same problems that we have now, and that has to do with a new hospital — with an extension of Montecelo — but also with planning that meets the needs of the Greek health care, and particularly with the health care of Pontevedra. A larger hospital has to have higher services and therefore even larger staff, imperishable! You cannot provide the same service with less personal services, and you cannot provide more services with the same staff. So, if we really want and if we really believe that this need is imperative, it is urgent, and that this ILP should go ahead and that we should have a larger and younger Montecelo hospital that sees that necessary attention, it must be to have greater services and to have more staff, and that we can provide the health area and the citizens who use it and need their health from the services they need. And not — as it has rightly been explained here — that we have service deficits and problems, as we have in all health areas, too in this area. I would like to remind you of this — which seems trivial and simple — that we only have to go to the construction of the Cunqueiro Alvaro, where a hospital was made smaller than initially expected, with fewer services than initially expected; yes, we paid more than initially expected. Therefore, they are not unfounded fears, they are — in fact — well-founded fears. We hope we've learned from the situation and we can improve in this case. We believe, moreover, that this extension should lead to a correct reorganization of the service: that services are moved, that they are done well; that patients are moved, that they are done well; that the use of health facilities and infrastructures is redesigned, that the real needs are designed with attention to professionals. Not to some professionals — determined, concrete and few — all professionals, patients and users. We believe it is essential that the reorganization be done with planning. And we're convinced that this is possible and we're very in time, of course. Mr. Counsellor said at some intervention here — at another point that we have already discussed on this topic — that the works were planned for the end of 2018 and beginning of 2019. We're on time to do and plan a correct reorganization. Not like other past experiences, not too far away, that they didn't and we had several problems. And finally, in this matter, don't harm the rest of the area. Enlargement is not absorption, it is not a question of making a larger hospital in Pontevedra to absorb the services of the rest of the health area. In particular, it is not a matter of taking to Pontevedra everything that is now — as it was pointed out — is done at the Salnes Hospital, which is already less than it was done before. Therefore, it does not serve to concentrate services, but to expand existing ones. That it does not serve, therefore, to reorganize so that all there is no more and ultimately all we do is put in the same container everything that is now dispersed. Because that would probably be inefficient and, in addition, we would leave health care in the worst quality. And finally — and no less important, but probably more important — we defend the character of public defense. This ILP places a fundamental emphasis on the public character of the services we share, which we defend and defend. There was a victory with enlargement, yes, but now we don't lower the public's defense so there's no trap, there's no problem, there's no management, it must be public, that we shouldn't have hospital cogenerations, that we shouldn't have business decisions influencing the care field, and that the uses, for example, of the current provincial hospital, when reorganized, when reformed, be public, should be complementary to those that exist at Montecelo Hospital. And those who exist above must have, in the provincial, complementary uses, health uses that are necessary for citizenship, but that are public. Public! Because it wouldn't be in any way possible to offer a public health facility for private health services that do business at the expense of our own public funding. Because that would be to deliver our budget, our dedication and our health to private services that do business legitimately, but not with our public money. We were discussing here an initiative — there are still not many of them — and Mr Moreira said — I think I remember — that there is no problem that is private, because private can be free. I was like, "What happens if it's free, don't we want the private one?"Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I don't know any private business that's free, none. And, therefore, we can't set an example that there can be a private business but that can be free. Because if someone gives a private service and does it for free, there's someone who's losing, and usually we always pay the same. So we don't get into lounge traps sometimes too simple, private businesses are legitimately to do their business and have their profits. But the public administration — and public health, particularly — should not finance infrastructure for private services to benefit from it and do health business where there should be a public health facility. Therefore, we are clearly in favour of this initiative. We repeat our congratulations and thank the PP for coming to our position in terms of Pontevedra's health, for whenever it changes position and adheres to what we socialists are always right, we should think about it. That enlargement really serves to expand services in addition to bricks, and that we are working on concepts of the public and not of the private. Because we defend — or we should — public services, because for this we are a Galician Parliament that defends not companies, which also, but, above all, the citizens who demand public health, or at least that is what they constantly say; even though there is anyone who wants to defend that public defense is based on private facilities that are free of charge, because if they are free we always pay the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u9	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. A special greeting to the representatives of the SOS Public Health Platform and the various representatives of the political groups in Pontevedra who also support this initiative. The deterioration of the Galician Health Service is something there is no doubt about. Today, despite the enormous efforts of the fantastic health professionals, we have worse attention than ten years ago. This is how health professionals and different studies on the subject support it. And this answers two fundamental questions: the drastic cuts suffered by public services to socialize the losses caused by the financial crisis and the privatization model of the People's Party. A model that precedes the economic interests of a few to the interests of citizenship and which is doing business with people's health. Under the neoliberal maxim that everything can be bought and sold, defends a political line that is placed above the well-being of the majority, the common good, the possibility that a few can fatten their current accounts. The road to which these policies lead us can see it in the health area of Vigo, where the People's Party has just made the most important action in the reorganization of the Galego Health Service following the construction of the Cunqueiro Alvaro. From the beginning, the management of the Cunqueiro Alvaro has been disastrous. On the same day of the opening workers and patients are found with 600 beds less — besides that the hospital did not have a laboratory meeting the needs— and 11 operating rooms less than planned, that the parking is paid and that kitchens, kitchen service, maintenance, laundry or diet are in private hands. Complaints are continued both by workers and by users. Eight months ago, the unions reported an epidemic of Klebsiella bacteria, so many patients had to be isolated. And this happens because you have a very smaller template than you need. The new hospital complex defended by the PP aims to follow the path that began Esperanza Aguirre in the Madrid Community, first building hospitals under the model of mixed management, then outsourcing several of the services and finally reaching full privatization. The situation in the Mexoneiro is not much better, damaged trauma rooms, equipment that hasn't worked for months and others that have disappeared, while the template works with portable equipment, many of them obsolete. There are closed rooms where they break up, break up and disassemble the equipment and others that disassembled when they still worked. Soon beds will be closed from 180 to 120. We are witnessing the progressive dismantling of public health, a fundamental part of the health business, of the policies of the People's Party, and, in parallel, the deterioration of public hospitals: more budgets for private hospitals. Povervisa receives EUR 90 million each year from the budgets of the Union, around EUR 540 per each of the health card that the centre is responsible for. The sustainability of this centre depends, to a large extent, on these contributions of public money. Povervisa carried out an intense campaign to capture users and users, taking advantage of the deficiencies of public hospitals in Vigo, seeking valuable cards. Sergas agreed to transfer 3,600 more users, which I assumed was extra revenue to the private hospital of nearly 2 million euros. And that's how the plan works with health care: to damage the public service for the benefit of the private. Well, because of this aggression that suffers from our health system, in the face of those who want to do business with our health, in the face of public dismantling policies, this citizen initiative is born that we are debating today in this plenary. A bill that blinds the public health system in the area of Pontevedra. It is driven by 19 social entities among which there are, of course, SOS Public Health, as well as several associations of affected by various diseases, such as the Galeg Confederation of Neighbouring Associations — which brings together 7 neighbouring federations with more than 400 groups — all of them nothing suspicious of caring for interests other than those of citizenship: people of the common and professional sector concerned about the situation that they decide to take a step forward. Among the promoters of the ILP we also find different political parties and trade unions accompanying the citizen organizations and groups: the three opposition parties in this Parliament, trade unions such as IGC, UXT, Workers' Committees, Prosagal and Satse. The goal is nothing other than a 100 percent public management hospital, both in its construction and in its subsequent administration, which solves the enormous deficiencies in Pontevedra's health area. This area serves a population of 300,000 people, who have suffered a degradation of the health area by transferring the reference services to hospitals in Compostela and Vigo, with the poor functionality of the Salnés Hospital, with poorly equipped health centres, CAP without sufficient resources, family guidance centres with multiple cuts or the separation of Pontevedra hospital into two buildings, which greatly hinders attention. The promotion of this ILP continued in spite of the pre-election announcement of the Health Council to expand Montecelo to consolidate the single hospital in Pontevedra, because of course most of the Greeks and the Greeks do not rely on the announcements of the PP during the electoral period. And you will understand why we are not missing, we know that the PP's word is worthless, the history of our country's politics is full of deceptions and breaches of the People's Party, in addition to that the announcement was made without any concretion. Once again the PP selling smoke, making their trilero games, in which citizenship always loses, and the bank, like in casinos, always wins. That's why this platform has been announced and this claim will be maintained until you see the project done. In fact, through this permanent claim of the collectives and citizenship, in general, it has been achieved that the PP government of that march back in the Monte Carrasco project, the Cunqueiro Álvaro that you intended to install in Pontevedra, for your friends, the concessionaires, those who do business with our health. The PP has passed two laws, eight years without taking any kind of measure to improve public health in Pontevedra's health area, when the conditions indicated and continue to indicate — more, after eight years of abandonment — the need to accommodate the expansion of Montecelo. We were right about the people that we called for enlargement eight years ago, and, as I say, we are following it after the policies of abandonment and deterioration of public health that the People's Party has applied for these eight years. This fight, precisely, of the public health workers, was the one that caused the PP to abandon the proposal of a private public hospital; that model that had so bad results in Vigo's new hospital, with that Monte Carrasco model, and that was precisely in the electoral campaign process when they announced that they were going back on that proposal and would surrender themselves to the logical extension to transfer some of the services that are now in the provincial hospital and improve others that are now in Montecelo. This proposed law which we also defend today guarantees issues that for us must be irrevocable and that we have seen defending from En Marea: that it is guaranteed that enlargement will not be carried out with a public-private partnership, that it is ensured that the parking lot will be public, that the management of the provincial hospital is guaranteed to be public, that a public service of quality is guaranteed and that the people's party's ambition to privatize everything that has to do with health. This bill is the best project for Pontevedra's health area, is driven by the collectives who have demonstrated their commitment and determination in defending health management in our country: associations that work honestly and selflessly, investing their knowledge and time to get citizens to have the best possible health care, facing the predatory policies of the People's Party, which gradually deteriorate the health service while increasing the economic benefits of a few. The People's Party today has the opportunity to turn its health policy course around and send the message to the citizen that from now on the health of the Greeks and the Greeks will no longer be sold to the worst bidder. They heed the demands of citizenship, who have repeatedly shown their resistance to their health policies. The historic mobilization of Vigo — because of the disastrous management of Álvaro Cunqueiro — or the mobilization in Pontevedra — which stopped the Monte Carrasco project — is a clear example of this. They assume this bill, and if not, they leave here and make it clear to the citizen; explain why they cut budgets for public management and spend more and more money for private individuals: explain why banks have been rescued and cut in health; explain why they're mutilating services in public hospitals; explain why they don't listen to professionals and people and they do it to private companies doing health business. If you reject this law, prepared by health professionals and mostly supported by the Greek society — those who did not vote for it, but those who voted for it — you will be writing another chapter of Galicia's gradual sale to the economic powers, to those who finance campaigns and to those who place politicians on the board of directors. So, to see if they support this initiative and once defend a public health, in this case for the health area of Pontevedra. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u11	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u12	Very good morning. Mr. President, Mr. Health Counsellor, Mr. Mayor of Pontevedra, representatives of the corporation, representatives of neighbors, very good days at all. I would like to greet the spokesperson and the representatives of the commission promoting this popular legislative initiative and sincerely thank them for their political participation in this House, of all the Greeks, through that instrument of the ILP recognized in our Statute of Self-Government of Galicia. We certainly feel like a commendable initiative to strengthen the health services in the Pontevedra area. We understood perfectly the concerns that led to his presentation at a time when the Health Counsellor had announced that he was looking for a formula of consensus on Pontevedra's future hospital and that for this, he was going to start a round of contacts, beginning with the mayor of Pontevedra and following with professionals and neighbors and trade union representatives. I say we fully understand the fears that could exist at those moments of uncertainty as long as it has not settled, while it has not been put on the table, the proposal is already in progress — I want to point out, already in progress, already in progress — of the Great Montecelo. As the representative of the BNG acknowledged — which in itself is sufficient to ratify an opposition to deal with this legislative initiative — this is already under way and therefore the whole of it is already past. We are with a project that is signed with an agreement and are taking important steps. President Feijóo's government has been looking for a solution to Pontevedra's health area for a long time, and that is why, between the time when it began the processing of this legislative initiative — May 25, 2016 — and until today — almost a year later — it has been progressing, and much, on the objective of this initiative. So we greet the promoters of the initiative and move them to work exactly on the same line. We therefore agreed on this objective. However, we believe that the legislative initiative, a law, is not the right instrument to guarantee this objective. The truth is that no hospital in Galicia is regulated by law, nor do we understand that it is not reasonable, and I think that we should agree with all parliamentary groups. In fact, the Galician Health Act, approved by the PSdG and the BNG, does not at any time enter the location of hospital centers and even says, textually, that is the Public Health System of Galicia, that structure territorially in areas and health areas articulated in the health map of Galicia, which will be defined by regulation. I mean, it's not the legal framework for us to define geographically the location of infrastructures, and much less the health services. We don't think it's good to legislate, either, we're not in it, but precisely the opposite, in regulatory simplification. The past was the first legislating of Galician history that ended with fewer binding laws than when it started, since most of the laws we approved did not add a new text to the Greek legal corpus, but replaced one or more of the previous texts. In addition, the Law on the Rationalization of the Public Sector is adopted, with principles of rationalization, simplification and quality as guiding principles of the aforementioned legislation of the Galician Union. In fact, the new regulatory provisions of the Board already have to justify in their initial reports of processing their need and proportionality. It's not the norm, we have to simplify the legislative corpus. Therefore, by sharing objective, we believe that this is not the most suitable medium. There were other means, other instruments, which we certainly believe would fit much better into the purpose sought by the proponents of this legislative initiative, as may be the non-proposals of popular initiative law. For the purpose we share with the ILP there is already full consensus between the Council of Pontevedra and the Council of Galicia, which was broken down with the signing on July 27, 2016 of a cooperation agreement for the execution of the works of the Great Montecelo. A convention which also has a plus of consensus, which consists of the explicit or express support of all political forces that make up the Municipal Corporation of Pontevedra, among which, of course, are found, in addition to the People's Party and the BNG, the Socialist Party and En Marea, among them, included in the BNG, the Member of the BNG who intervened here, who does not seem to have signed that agreement or who did not ratify that agreement. Well, that convention is ratified by that concierge who intervened here, and now it seems to deny that agreement, and also by En Marea. So I can accept — I tell the representative of En Marea — that they don't trust election announcements, but what I don't understand is that they don't trust their colleagues in the Pontevedra Corporation. They all referred to their support for this agreement through unanimous approval. In that agreement the agreement is perfectly signed to carry out the enlargement of Montecelo. And it is also guaranteed in the other of the issues that are regulated at the first point of the ILP, which is the public funding of the hospital building. In it, the Board undertakes to contract, direct and execute the hospital enlargement works from its budgets, which means that it will be built with public funds; in addition, the question expressly confirmed here by the Health Counsellor in some intervention. On the other hand, speaking of parking, you have no doubt, in the Convention itself, the Pontevedra Council — and we have no reason to suspect that you will not meet this commitment — commits and guarantees the parking assistance, since it says the agreement that will correspond to the Council the provision of the spaces of dissuasive parking spaces needed to properly meet the demand that can be generated. Regarding the second point of the ILP, the use of the current provincial hospital, ILP says that health use will be maintained. We have no doubt, it will keep health uses, but we don't want, we're not in a position to veto other uses that may be compatible, and I think it's not good to stay attached and that this subject is closed to a law. Furthermore, there is no need to lose sight of the fact that non-sanitary uses, such as nursing school, are already being developed. And here let me point out that the problem is knowing what the opposition parties think: BNG, PSOE and En Marea, who supported this ILP and now it seems to be detached from it, because each one has his own proposal. The Galician PSOE says that use will be exclusively socio-sanitary. He said it here on a motion at 6433 in Marea. The PSOE of Pontevedra calls for the use to be exclusively sanitary. BNG does not want to limit itself to health, only says it will be primarily health care. In Marea it says that use is exclusively sanitary. It would be nice if they'd arranged here and said clearly that's what they prefer. The second paragraph of Article 2 we believe that it is useful to define what services should be left in the provincial hospital before knowing what new services will be incorporated into the expansion of the Gran Montecelo. In fact, by so narrowly defining the services we would really be going against the process that the health adviser is carrying out, an open consultation process on the functional plan of the hospital. We believe that it is better than that distribution of the services of the Grand Montecelo between the Grand Montecelo and the provincial to leave that exemplary participatory process and that it does not come predetermined by law. Looks like the BNG representative doesn't like the process being participative, because he says we're turning it around, does he? We're consulting stakeholders, patients, professionals, neighbors, institutions, and they're already presuming the participatory process, and also keeping an error that I think is the main reason for this enlargement, maintaining an error that is sharing and dispersing services, when what we're looking for is doing a single hospital and concentrating services. [[Applause]] The design of the Great Montecelo is therefore conceived as a collective project, more than 300 professionals worked in nine specialized groups, more than 2,400 surveys were made to users, in a process — I believe it must insist — that it was exemplary and participatory. So, Mr Bará, we are not turning around, we are consulting the neighbours of Pontevedra which hospital they want for Pontevedra. On the other hand, the project is currently in a period of analysis in which all these proposals and suggestions will often be evaluated and will probably be presented by the advisor in a few weeks. Therefore, given that the objective of this ILP is already secured with the signing of the agreement, with the actions under way, we really do not consider it necessary to admit its consideration, and that is why we are going to vote against, for the reasons explained. We thank all the people who are participating in the process of drawing up the functional plan and also the promoters for this initiative, for their activity in favour of better public health in the Pontevedra area. We have made sure that the steps taken so far ensure that — even if they do not have legal status — the Greek administrations are in line with their efforts and will provide Pontevedra with a large public hospital, which is also the goal of this initiative. Finally, I want to refer even to a publication in Lancet's journal, of great prestige in the field of health, which he recently said and acknowledged that Spanish health emerges among the top ten of the world's health systems: eight places, in front of France, which is in the fifth; of Germany, which is in the twenty-fifth; and of the United Kingdom, which is in the most extreme position. And its foundations, that of Spanish health and, therefore, that of Galicia, are innovation — all this being said by experts — universality, investment and equity. So they're going ahead with the infrastructures in Galicia, they're working at Pontevedra Hospital, they're already working on the extension of the Ferrol Hospital, they've already introduced the extension of the Clinic and therefore the Welsh health doesn't have to be shielded in specific acts in a law, and you have the conviction and demonstration that we're fulfilling an agreement in which there is maximum consensus, not only the Pontevedra Council, but the rest of the Pontevedra Corporation. It is being consulted with all users, with patients and professionals in a process — to insist — exemplary and therefore we are all united by the same objective, which is to make the best hospital for Pontevedra. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u13	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Replica from the representative of the sponsoring committee, if you think so, Mr Ricón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all thanks to the parliamentary groups that supported our initiative. And with regard to Mr. Moreira's and his group's votes, I mean that if we insist that we should legislate, it's because history shows us that the tendency to privatization has to be controlled by law, because if there's no way. We want security about the public character of the financing and management of our health area. We have very close examples in time and space that show us that we will have to follow this path, because if we don't finish as if it ended up elsewhere, clearly privatizing services, privatizing parking lots, etc., etc. On the provincial hospital we are sure that if you do not legislate your public health character, it will end up being used to do business. The idea that there has to be one health for the rich and another for the poor has at least one medieval tuft, and history is very stubborn; history shows us day after day that situations of injustice and lack of equity, and lack of democracy, have always evolved towards situations where there is greater freedom, greater equity and greater democracy. And those who oppose that evolution will be thrown on the road as citizenship follows its right path to greater freedom, greater democracy and greater equity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ricón. I beg the House services to accompany Mr. Ricon to the public gallery. [[Pause.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u16	Thank you. Next legislating text. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of En Marea, reform of the Regulation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u17	For the presentation of the bill has the floor to Mrs. Solla, for a time of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u18	Thank you, President. Today we have not spoken of a simple bill itself, not just an initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, but today we have come to talk about democratic systems and separation of powers. Since this honourable Member entered this Parliament, in the previous legislation, they have attended and assisted — with quite a bit of rape — the impunity with which the Government usually violates the House's own rule and even fails to comply with it — to comply with its own Statute of autonomy. Since my arrival in this Parliament — and I suppose it will be passed on to many Members of the House — they have, in the case of the function of control, written questions which were not answered by the Government, and in the best case they have responded by failing to comply with the time limits laid down by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u19	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. Solla, that there's a little noise in the room. See if we let our guests say goodbye and we can continue. Please... If you can... you're in the use of the word down here. [[Pause.]] Thank you. Go on whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u20	I was moved by the fact that since the arrival of Parliament, many Members of this House — and I am sure that many of the written questions have been answered by the Government — will be passed on to them, as many of the written questions have not been answered by the Government; and in the best case, they have been answered without time limits. I also attended — and we continue to see the different comrades and comrades — the non-compliance with the requests for written information to which we are entitled under Article 9 of the Rules of this House, and under the very content of the Statute of Self-Government. Requests for information which remain unfulfilled, which is why this honourable Member has already made a claim to the same Bureau of which I am also a member. In the case of the impulse function there is no guarantee of compliance with the approved texts, even when we talk about compliance laws. The delay in their development, the lack of investment and the lack of interest in some regulated rights make it impossible for you to pass laws in this Parliament today. We have enough examples of a circumstance that is very serious, to our understanding. Law of social services, Law of guarantees of health benefits, Law of the rights of LGTBI people or Law of the rights of terminally ill people are some examples of laws in which I myself am rapporteur and that today, despite the past years, they remain unfulfilled. In the case of non-law proposals and motions, there is no legal obligation to comply with them, but if we take into account the useful sense that legislative power must have, we must ask ourselves: so why is it useful to approve them? According to the texts of institutional, constitutional and parliamentary law, non-legislative proposals and motions are initiatives that are being put in place precisely to urge the government to act in a certain sense. But what's going on? What can we expect if for a long time, if for years, none of the initiatives adopted in this Parliament are envisaged by the Government and carried out? What is the point of parliamentary impulse without any control over that impulse? The function of control was studied by different professors and professors of constitutional law, administrative law and personal counsel of parliamentary chambers. In different studies it is clear that if the non-law propositions and motions do not have a legal link to the Government, they do have it on a political level. That is why new Parliamentary regulations are arbitrating ex post evaluation forms of government action in compliance with parliamentary decisions. By setting an example of methods of monitoring compliance with approved initiatives: the Aragon Courts have given the obligation to verify compliance in committee and full, Articles 187 and 203 of the Rules of Procedure. Or in similar conditions the Rules of Procedure of the House of the Principality of Asturias, which in its Articles 209 and 223 set out requirements for compliance with the approval. Article 148 of the Constitution states that it is the responsibility of the autonomous community to organize its self-government institutions, including Parliament's own. Article 10 of the Staff Regulations of Self-Government as one of the functions of the Galician Parliament both the legislative power and the executive control of the Galician Union. The last second provision of the Rules of Procedure of this House lays down the procedure for reforming the Rules of Procedure itself. Therefore, on the basis of the principles of administrative and constitutional law, our group today presents this proposal for reform of the regulation, which is not an express proposal that we have suffered in 2015 — to our understanding — that it was about participation. The current regulation does not facilitate the control of non-legislative mandates that involve the expression of the House's unanimous or majority will. This honourable Member, as he had already moved them to the beginning, has suffered since the entry of the past legislation. We have enough examples. I have some non-law propositions passed in the past legislation that are still unfulfilled today. For example, the action that was to take in Galicia's board to introduce late shifts in the activity of surgery and consultations, which has a great deal to do with what we just discussed and which only took a few days to say in the media that he was not going to comply with it, without coming to this House to give any sort of explanation about it, in total and absolute contempt. Or one of the year 2014 on the need for repair of the health centre in Milladoiro, or 2015 on the need to keep Panxón's free time residence open, or 2015 on the actions on the relationship of endometriosis care, which we are debating again in this House, where an initiative of the Glaga Left Alternative Group was also approved in the past legislation. Or in 2016 on the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the regulation or development of the Law on the right of asylum and subsidiary protection, or even some on the rights of integration of refugees from Syria, also from 2016. We have a broad list that I am sure that the rest of the parliamentary groups could expand with many of their initiatives that have been approved and not met. In this legislation, since the exercise of the Vice-Presidentship of the House, I have been interested in the need for Parliament to know whether or not the Council has complied with the terms of reference sent by the House, so at the moment it has been proposed to the Bureau itself to take an interest in the said fulfilment, in the view that being the representative body of the Galician Parliament should be interested in whether or not it meets the terms of approval of the Galician Parliament; it seems logical. However, most of the Bureau refused to be interested in these matters and to request information from the Government. We therefore consider ourselves to be at a point of defence, calling it somehow, because if we can ask the Government in our exercise of control, compliance with the initiatives adopted in the House should be able to be systematically controlled. The citizens have the right to know whether the Government complies with what Parliament approves of representatives, to whom it voted the same citizenship. It is therefore necessary to articulate mechanisms to control non-legislative initiatives adopted, providing them with legal coverage mechanisms covered by the Regulation. We propose a new title, with an article setting out the need for the Government to forward to Parliament at each session a report on the situation and degree of compliance with the non-law and approved motions. We propose that this report be received by the Bureau in accordance with its approval and that the groups, at least at the request of one of them, require the presence, in the commission of requests, of a representative of the Government or of a representative of the Government to explain the said report and answer the questions of the groups. We are aware that there are other reformable aspects of the regulation. I myself referred, a few minutes ago, to the failure to comply with requests for information in the course of article 9, improvements that if taken into account may be discussed and extended in the presentation. Today, however, we want to focus on the absence of mechanisms to control the Government and to monitor whether the Government complies with the terms adopted in this House. Because, I repeat, the initiatives are not being carried out, the responses are not being answered, not even the oral ones, and we know enough about our group, fellow Manuel Lago, about what happens in the economic commissions. And requests for information are not met either, nor generally. The impunity of the Government is total right now and a separation of powers is invalidated in this situation, which it seems that everyone is defending in this House. That makes us wonder what the work is for in this House, why it is not responsible for the representativeness of the Members who have supported people who have not supported the Government-supported group. The citizenry has the right — because it has voted on the different parliamentary groups — to comply with the demands we are being moved to and to which we know the data that motivate the failure to comply with those demands. We have very few occasions on which initiatives are adopted, and above all unanimously in this Parliament. It is absurd that even when initiatives are approved unanimously in this House after these initiatives are not taken into practice or we have a control mechanism to know why it is not. Parliament is subject to taxes from all the Greeks, just like the Government, and the people are thus entitled to what is approved in their Parliament is achieved. Therefore, let us also fulfil the popular mandate, with what we are moved to do when we do our work as Members and Members. It's a basic issue, a basic issue of transparency that should interest the Government that says it defends transparency. At the very least, if we do not have to ask ourselves what the work we are doing in Parliament and the Members of Parliament is useful. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u22	Good morning to all and to all. From the Galician Nationalist Block we will support the consideration of this Bill for the amendment of the Regulation, an initiative which, from our point of view, opens up a very interesting and absolutely necessary debate. But we believe that it should go beyond the reform of Article 167 on non-law proposals and motions, in order to form a presentation with which we will assess a broader and deeper reform of the whole of the Rules of Procedure. Because from our point of view, both of the people who were already present in this House in previous legislations, as well as those who have become part of it in this mandate or in this period, what we are seeing is that it is a limiting instrument of the parliamentary exercise itself in times of handling absolutely pachydermal initiatives. Absolutely pachydermic and absolutely anachronistic if we keep in mind that we have been in 2017, immersed for quite a while in a society where today and information flow more and more rapidly. We have to wait seven days, seven days, one week since the publication of an initiative in Parliament's Bulletin until it is possible to incorporate it into a agenda, and that's something that prevents, in all light, from following up on rigorous news and causing the House of Representatives of the Greek people to arrive as often as possible later and with well advanced events already. Between pilets and flutes, up to fifteen days of waiting, fifteen days of waiting between us to register an initiative, including the Bureau of Parliament, which accepts its own initiative, which is published in Parliament's Bulletin and, of course, seven days of quarantine for them to appear gathered in the regulation itself. There are today countless tools that would allow for greater and more agile participation, even of the people who live and work in our country have not been elected Members in this House and who should count, as the Galego Nationalist Block has already defended, on the basis of the reform that took place in the regulation in 2015, with a citizen participation commission. It should be an obligation, from our point of view, to adapt Parliament to the reality of our time, making it more open, more agile and, of course, more dynamic, adapted to reality — I say — a society in which information flows more and more quickly. It is true, too, that it is true, that we refer precisely to events and refer precisely to the debate of that year 2015 which the People's Party does not care about, and it is simply necessary to review the Journal of Sessions to see the reasons that motivated the non-acceptance of the majority — i.e., I believe, the practice of the whole — of the initiatives that the Nationalist Block of Wales was holding at that time. On the other hand, in that reform, what has been done was to impose higher proportionality criteria than those already existed, closing the equality of opportunity between the various parliamentary groups. From our point of view, proportionality has already been fixed by the electorate in the polls with the representation it gives to each political force, and we are the fourth, the great honour, and we do not need to remember it, we remember it. No regulation should therefore limit the ability of training to work, but it should be that it should be for real equality when it comes to incorporating initiatives on the agenda or developing the Government's control work. So, what we are called upon today is the political control of the fulfilment and execution of the non-legislative initiatives approved by the House, by the way, of a non-binding character, so that we all know that we are already sufficiently and very fully aware that, therefore, it remains in the hands of the Government to decide whether or not it will or not, as it will or will not be appropriate for it to be implemented. That they don't do it in many cases is a fact, some have already been exposed by the mouthpiece of En Marea a moment ago. I'm going to remind you of some other example, so perhaps by your theme a little more topical. On 19 February 2016 Parliament unanimously agreed to urge the Union to take the legally appropriate measures to avoid the segregation of the production of electricity and railways by Ferroatlantica, do you remember? A year later, Junta is looking at how we sell our motorcycle to bend to the interests of the count of Villar Mir -- we remember the defendant, now we have to say so, investigated by alleged illegal financing of the People's Party -- technically covering what is nothing but a political decision; political, that is what we do here. Another, May 2016, Parliament of Galicia urges the Union to demand prison health skills. Not only did they not comply with the agreement, but since the council, they did not provide the information required by the people's valet about the prisoners who were being treated by Hepatitis C in our country, and that in many cases they are forced to travel to other territories of the Spanish State. It's serious, yes, and more so if it's the only one that doesn't meet, but it's not. Of the 18 requests made in this legislation — and not so long ago, we do not have much to go on, but now we have passed legislation — by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, in the framework of Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure, which, as they know, guarantees the right of the persons represented in this House to require and obtain documentation from it, and which obliges the Government to provide it within a period not exceeding thirty days, only one, one of 18, and so much so! But it's just that if we don't do it -- if we get to crack for the kid what the reality is -- they don't even comply with their own laws. Additional provision 5 of Decree 79/2010, for the famous plurilingualism, which obliges the Government to evaluate the results of its application on an annual basis. We asked you in this House to submit the data corresponding to these assessments, we did it through non-law proposals, several, besides one being a spokesperson for the area of teaching and language Mr. Bieito Lobeira, the latest being me, being in this House, and you have denied it. We're asking through article 9, and we're still waiting. Leo 9/2011, from public audio-visual media in Galicia — which is at the mercy of all — has already had a recent opportunity to debate about it, or at least to be part of a debate around it. No parliamentary election by most qualified general management, no programme contracts, no professional status, nor, of course, none of the information boards. And it's six years after your approval and entry into force, six! With regard to other normative texts and various parliamentary agreements, which were also famous for the consensus they gathered around quite important issues in our country, for the future beyond our people, directly decided that the best was to legislate against, in the case of the Language Standardization Act and the General Linguistic Standardization Plan. I reiterate, on behalf of my group, that we will support the consideration of this initiative, I also reiterate the commitment to all forces to give them a thorough look at the rules of play of this House, not limiting ourselves alone and exclusively — if it finally goes ahead of this initiative — to Article 167 in the face of possible reform; to adapt the functioning of the House to time; to dynamize and speed up parliamentary procedures to give agile and dynamic response to what is happening outside the walls of this Hérreo palace; and, above all, to ensure the necessary popular participation through a commission in which we hear directly what the different social sectors of our country have to say, because we live in the 21st century, in 2017. There are enough tools not to have to wait fifteen days until I can bring this whole initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u24	Thank you, President. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we will also vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration, and of overcoming this first stage we understand that perhaps it would require some nuance, for example, in respect of the committee on which the representative of the Government should appear to explain the report on the degree of compliance with the resolutions of the House or even include the obligation to attend this representative of the Government without requiring anyone to ask him to do so. Let us not lose sight of the fact that the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia in its Article 10 establishes that it is one of the functions of Parliament to control the executive action of the Government, and this bill speaks precisely of this, of the political control of the Government and, above all, of finding out how much of our respect is for the Government of Mr Feijóo to the Members and Members we work in this Parliament. As we have already pointed out on other occasions, the mechanisms of good government are counterbalances that citizens will have against arbitrariness; citizens, through these mechanisms of good government, can make a more effective use of democracy, and a demonstration is these mechanisms of good government, a manifestation of respect for civil rights. In fact, Galicia, when ruling a socialist president, was a pioneer in Spain to put in place precisely those good government mechanisms, approving Law 4/2006, of June 30, of transparency and good practices in the Greek Public Administration. This law was strengthened in 2016, January 18, by a law that regulated the level of information in the relations between legislative power and executive power. With these two rules, we need to talk about two mechanisms of good governance: the first is Article 19 of this law of the year 2016, which states that each end of the year the Galician Union will develop and publish a report on the portal of transparency and open government precisely on the same subject as this bill. A report on the degree of compliance with the agreements adopted by Parliament during each year. But this index, the index for 2016, which was the first year since the entry into force of the law of 2016, came into force at the 20 days of its publication, i.e., thirty-eight days after the beginning of 2016, because that index at the end of 2016, right now, is not available on the transparency portal. Perhaps it could be because Galicia has fallen at its level of transparency between the years 2014 and 2016, exactly like two other autonomous communities: Castile and León and Catalonia. Only a few days ago, my colleague Juan Villoslada was discussing with Vice President Rueda, and Vice President Rueda said yes, that since the Government he was giving himself the maximum information and that they would comply with precisely this article of the law of 2016, but that he had not yet spent a year, and that then they would wait for the year 2017. The curious thing is that the law does not say that it has to spend a year, but what the law says in Article 19 is that at the end of the year a report will be published on the degree of compliance with Parliament's resolutions every year. In other words, in 2016 it would correspond in December with respect to 2016. Well, we do not accept this answer, we will reiterate our request in Commission 1st of the publication of the report, as we have done on several occasions. And the fact is that our duty as Members and Members in this House is to claim that our daily work serves something, and that the Government is subject to at least a minimum political control by this Parliament. In that line, only one month ago at the Congress of Deputies was unanimously approved, at the PNV, just the degree of control over parliamentary motions and LNPs by means of a report which every 15 days after entry into the Congress register would be explained or will have to be explained by a representative of the Government, coming to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and meeting the requirements of the parliamentary groups. The People's Party, therefore, unanimously approved, voted in favour, perhaps because you are now very friends, friends, of the PNV, and perhaps you could do something similar, and even though from the opposition's benches we're not so friendly, you could try to vote in favour and comply -- even though it was just -- article 19 of a law, that of the year 2016, which came out precisely from those benches, their government benches. Every week, sometimes every month, we approve non-law proposals in commission, non-law proposals in full, full motions that end up in drawers, no one controls whether they are met or not, and above all gives the feeling that they have no effect, in fact many of our colleagues — who so ask us — ask us: "But if it has been approved, why does it not comply, why do we continue exactly as when we ask you to present this non-law proposition, or any interpellation that gives rise to a motion?" In the past legislation, we fully approved five motions and 20 non-law proposals. In committee, at the instance of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, 67 legislative proposals. Well, we don't know whether or not they did, and in some cases we know they didn't, they just set examples a few moments ago. I would like to set an example of one of my committees, the Environment Committee, because the control of the Pampa grass has been reiterated. We made three non-law proposals in the past legislation, the People's Parliamentary Group voted in favour twice, one against the other. In this legislation we have put forward another non-legislation proposal, they voted in favour and we continue exactly the same no, much worse than at the beginning of the past legislation. Therefore, disrespect for parliamentary work is incredible. In Euskadi even its regulation, for many years now, has a precept exactly as it is required here, and in 2003 the Socialist Parliamentary Group had called for the reform of the regulation in Congress, and that request was blocked by the People's Party at that time. Like you and we are not equal, that terrifying president José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero voluntarily referred, and without that rule, 3 reports to Congress of compliance with approved parliamentary commitments, just because you and we are not equal. You don't like parliamentary control, you know formulas to get around it, for example those bus laws that go with budget laws, and that change, for example, the 2014 Advisory Council Act, through something that is obviously not illegal, because it's in a law, but it's dubiously constitutional and clearly a book seizure. The second mechanism of good governance is compliance in transparency or in terms of fights against corruption and fraud. That must be something more than — as our colleague Abel Losada says — pure propaganda, because corruption exists — it is true that more places than elsewhere — but the worst thing is that it causes disillusionment to citizens about the functioning of the institutions, of this Parliament, of the representatives of the citizens themselves and of the political parties. Perhaps you, gentlemen of the People's Party — the only political party that has been processed in this country since the beginning of the history of democracy in Spain, the history of democracy is recent — know little, and perhaps that is why measures to fight corruption could serve to avoid having to read news like this a few days ago, in a national newspaper and I will read in Spanish: "The People's Party of Madrid contributed 685,000 euros not declared to Mariano Rajoy's campaign in the general elections of 2018, the second in which the current President of the Government presented himself as the leader of the national PP. According to Judge Eloy Velasco, those funds would have allowed Genoa to go beyond the legal limits of spending, thus competing in advantage with its competitors. The money came out of the plot of illegal financing of the people of Madrid, who allegedly led Francisco Granados, supposedly the brain of the Punic operation." End of date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u26	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a bill with a view to reforming the Rules of this House, a regulation which was reformed in 2015, and the reform began with a proposal such as today, a bill put forward by the Socialist Group, and after the presentation work ended with its approval and with the favourable vote of the majority of the House, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Group. Let us give some thought to what happened to that reform of the Rules of Procedure and what was the position of your group, Mrs Solla; you will remember it well because you were a Member of the Rules of Procedure. Because at that time you refused to participate in the amendment of today's regulations, you did not present any amendments. They just did their usual show, with a writing full of street slogans that nothing helped to improve the participation of Members and Members in parliamentary life. They were talking about a recent government, about Troika's black men. They were also talking about the regulatory imposition by the bipartisan elite on parliamentary opposition. They talked about the powerful, they called for the need to strengthen the control capacity of the Government of Greece and accept a plural parliament, which collects the voices of its people, voices, on the other hand, that you were responsible for silence: when they presented no amendments to the reform of the Rules of Procedure, when you make no motions for resolutions to the report of the Board of Auditors, when you act as observers in certain committees. Finally, you presented a criticism of bipartisanism, because in your words you wanted to suppress the expression of the social challenge you were part of, and they are also voices. Once again, and as always, a film of good and bad. Today the argumentary would probably have changed, and surely they wouldn't even talk about black men, or the Troika, or about bipartisanism they intend to reach agreements, because they only know they can't achieve all their political aspirations, so today they'd only talk about plots. And now they present a bill that forms part of a falsity, that the current regulation does not facilitate the control of legislative mandates, and for that they set as an example non-law proposals or motions, and we ask ourselves: where is the work that can be done through written questions, oral questions in commission and full, of article 9 or even through interpelerations? You can also ask the Government to attend, that is, they need 15 Members. Do you remember the first appearance of this legislation? Because the first appearance of this legislation was at the request of the opposition, they asked the president of the Union to appear to explain the Conference of Presidents, and the majority group accepted, and the president came. That's why we're asking where the government's control difficulty is. What if you were to limit your words, ladies and gentlemen, was what happened in Parliament when the left and the nationalists were ruling in Galicia. The president of the board answered in every full 1 question from the opposition, today answers 3. When the left ruled in Galicia, counsellors answered 2 appeals and 3 opposition questions at every plenary session. In this plenary you will answer three interpellations and seven questions from the opposition. Even in this whole 21 questions, of the 28th agenda, are opposition: no more than 75%. Mrs. Pontón, at this plenary session it's not 80% because you haven't put the motion on the agenda on the subject of language on your agenda, something that they were very concerned about in the previous plenary session, as the counselor has already said, because it was close to Galagas Letter Day ; so you see today they don't care so much about the language, despite Mrs. Rodil's speech. [[Applause]] And we can extrapolate these equivalences to the various committees of this Parliament. The ability to control the Government that you have, therefore, doubles what we had when we were opposed, by the way, being an opposition with more votes and more seats than the opposition that you now form. Ma'am, I'd like Mrs. Pontón to speak if she wants to ask Mrs. Rodil's turn, but don't interrupt, be a little polite, please. Mrs. Solla, the Health Insurance Act has already been passed three development decrees, and LGBTI law campaigns, agreements with associations have been made, the education protocol for trans minors has been approved, and the decree of women's information centres has changed to meet these collectives as well. Mrs. Vilán, I remind you that the Socialist Party is the one ruling with the PNV, I don't know if now that you have a new secretary general will change friends, but since those who rule with the PNV are you, and we don't. [[Applause]] Mrs. Solla, you say this is not an express reform, but only an article would be changed. And you say there are other aspects that need to be changed, why don't they? We want to know your proposal for a regulation, but when there was reform you didn't present your amendments; now you say they don't present everything they want to change either. What do you have to hide, Mrs. Solla? What do you have to hide? Look, besides your proposal is already regulated by law in article 19 of the Transparency Act, as Mrs Vilan has just pointed out. A law, ladies and gentlemen, which did not count any votes against in your approval, and that you did not amend in this line that you now propose, and you were already Mrs Solla, what happened at that time? You didn't see this? weren't they in the previous legislation so alibi in his government control work? But do you look at Article 19, do you know what is fruit? It's a result of a transaction with an amendment from the Joint Group, and that you, and all the opposition groups, voted in favour. What are we saying? It is an article that expressly voted in favour. Even though they did not vote in favour of the whole law, specifically Article 19, which was the result of a transaction with the Joint Group, you voted yes. So the truth is that it would be good for you to have some political coherence. Well, as stated here, Article 19 which requires the Government to publish a report on the transparency portal at the end of the year. The Director-General for Parliamentary Relations has already explained to you in the Commission 1st that in 2016 it had not been published because of the autonomous elections; so, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that it will. But there are also occasional compliments that the House receives, according to the accord of May 16th, information on the fulfilment of the parliamentary agreement, for example, of the creation of a card addressed to pilgrims. You don't say that, because you're not interested in saying that if you receive reports of issues that the Government is doing. Look, the opposition's job is to control the government, and you're asking us to control the government itself. Where's your paper? Where is the role of the opposition? The Government will report and provide information in that document that will be hung up on the transparency portal. Then you, if you have any questions about that document, you can take control of the government, you can ask the questions and you can ask the interpellations you consider appropriate. And even asking for the appearances and, therefore, to monitor the work of Government. Perhaps what they're asking is, if they ever get to the Government, that no one controls them, that they have to control themselves. And actually what they're looking for is a little what other totalitarian regimes do, like someone who comes to my head and you know well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Solla, I am grateful that you are the one who goes up to this rostrum to teach us lessons in democratic systems and separation of powers. Don't be afraid, the People's Party won't allow any Supreme Court to take on the work of the Legislative, as it has happened in other countries you know well. That's what we leave it to those who put on T-shirts that put on Chavez, I swear to you that I vote for Maduro, and you know it well. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I have three questions. One, it is absolutely false what your explanatory statement says, that the current regulation does not facilitate control of non-legislative mandates. They have the possibility of asking questions or questioning or asking the Government to attend, and they can even request investigation committees directly. All we have to do is agree on the opposition groups. It is an open regulation, it facilitates the effective participation of opposition parties, as well as the control of the Government. Secondly, parliamentary control over the initiatives adopted and their degree of compliance — as I have told you — are regulated in Article 19 of the Transparency Act, once a year this report will be published to which everyone will have access. And thirdly, the current Regulation allows the Government to apply for a number of 15 Members. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, you have to work a little bit more to get a little more support from the Greeks and the Greeks and to get some more Members to not have to depend on the generosity of the other opposition groups. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Replica from the author group of the bill. Mrs. Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u28	Thank you, President. First of all, thank the opposition groups, because I understand that the majority group does not have the right, as in other parliaments, to support that we can know why the Government does not comply with the initiatives adopted in this Parliament. Honestly, it's unfortunate, though it doesn't surprise me, either. In fact, they referred to other examples of initiatives that are not approved. And it was Mrs Rodil who set an example of the powers in prison health, which is why this Member — in this case as Vice-President — is interested in the Bureau to ask the Government not to overstep these powers. If it is not possible, it was precisely the Bureau of Parliament that spoke about and discussed regulations that affected this aspect of control that we are presenting today in this non-legislative proposal. However, it seems that the People's Party is not interested in the opinion of the Bureau of the Galician Parliament either. What's more, you do what you always want! You asked where the control work was left, the requests for information, the questions, and I ask myself. I repeat, the requests for information are not being answered, only one, which I myself have called for as a Member since the beginning of the legislation. Not in the past legislation either. Parliament's Rules of Procedure are binding on the Statute of Self-Government, but you give them absolutely the same. Questions are not answered and non-law proposals are not being complied with. It is not true that there is a control mechanism to control compliance with non-legislative initiatives. You refer to the vigouring legislation, Mrs. Prado. You say that I come here to teach lessons in democracy, which comes to teach lessons in democracy seems to be you. You're the ones who can't teach any kind of democracy, and less power separation. You, who boast of that control of state appliances and prosecutors; you, who also support the corrupt system that today rots the so-called democracy of this country. So we're not surprised that you don't want to have control over compliance with what is being approved in this House. [[Applause]] It's unfortunate! The Greeks and the Greeks pay this House, they pay the Government, they have the right...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u29	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u30	Don't change, gentlemen of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u31	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u32	We know that democracy is good for them, so they never support Parliament's amendments to the people. Indeed, in 2015 we did not want to participate in this farce. Also when they discussed... — please, I would ask to speak calmly — neither when you prevented Parliament from opening up to popular initiatives where people could come here and debate not only in the ILPs, but in a standardized way. [[Murmurs.]] We made proposals, nothing was worth them. You've cornered that participation, you're not interested in democracy. That's why they come back today, once again, to vote against something which is a basic initiative. There are, of course, other things to reform, because you are continuing to make changes — and so we saw it also in 2015 — that prevent you from participating in this House. But it doesn't matter, you're talking about everything, you're even able to talk about Venezuela, because you don't even want to name it, I think already out of shame, because the argument doesn't give any more. When they have no arguments, when they don't study their proposals, they always resort to it, they resort to Goebbels' argumentary, they resort to lies and defamation as always. The reality is that here is a proposal to control the Government and, however, the People's Party does not want government control to be exercised by the House of Representatives who voted for the people. The people directly vote for the Members and Members who are here — in all groups, of course — and have the right to know why they do not comply with the proposals they bring. It is unfortunate that you will vote against this initiative today. We will, of course, take note — but I also hope that citizenship — of the lack of democracy and the continuity of its group by supporting the lack of division of powers and the decay of this regime. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u34	After the debate on the legislative texts has been completed... — silence, please, we proceed to the vote on them. [[Murmurs.]] Close the doors, please. [[Pause.]] We voted, firstly, to take into account the Proposition of Law, of a popular legislative initiative, for the creation of the single public hospital in Pontevedra through the extension of the Hospital de Montecelo. Vote of the bill, of popular legislative initiative, for the creation of the public and single hospital in Pontevedra through the extension of the Hospital de Montecelo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This consideration is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u35	We are now voting on the proposal for a law of the En Marea Parliamentary Group for the reform of the Rules of Procedure. Voting on the proposal for a law of the En Marea Parliamentary Group for the reform of the regulation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. The consideration of this legislative text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u36	Open the doors, please. And we moved on to the second point of the day, attendances at Pleno. Like Mr. Health Adviser, on his own request, to report on the new primary care care model
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u37	The Health Counsellor has the floor for his intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I compare today, the request itself, to inform the House of what we call the new model of Primary Care. Everyone, professionals, sectors, patients and citizens, is convinced of the goodness of our health system, its value in the lives of people and society as a whole; of the improvements achieved in the health of our citizens, with a care model that has contributed to achieving a high level of health. Partly thanks to the achievements achieved through this system, we can also say that today our society is different from that of more than half a century ago. I think there is unanimity in assessing sociodemographic and social changes in patients' characteristics and their needs. We find ourselves with aging, dependence, geographic dispersion and social and family changes. And as a result of all this, with the need to do different things differently, to adapt the system to its organization and operation to these new needs, in the same way that no one questions the need for constant and permanent updating of professionals to maintain their knowledge and skills. We have a system with chronic patients that have to deal with in their primary care environment before in the hospital, before in their home, before in the health center itself, so we need a change in the new care model. In view of this need and with the conviction that Primary Care is a key element in this response, and with the desire to provide the best assistance and at the same time manage the resources of the system in a responsible manner and in the greatest interest of citizenship, we have been working together with professionals -- through medical schools, scientific societies, also from the Health Council Advisory Council -- in which are the main challenges facing primary care and proposals for improvement. The working groups focused on four areas, mainly: the management of consultation activities, the area related to hospital activity, the area of human resources management and the area of training and teaching. On the other hand, we have the vision of patients and citizens through the contacts that we maintain with associations and through the opinion expressed in the surveys, which is the one that the professionals themselves transmit. In February last year's health barometer was published, and what we saw as a result is the citizens' assessment: 9 out of 10 Greeks considered that the attention they received in Primary Care was either good or very good. The results are positive, but we want to make an effort to improve the care we offer every day in health centers. We are faced with a more informed patient, more concerned about their health, more demanding; and the diseases they suffer are increasingly chronic and live with them for many years. We firmly believe that Primary Care is the key and fundamental element in which we have to pilot the new care model that we want to offer and give to the Greek patient. The demands and expectations of citizens are the engine of our change and our goal is to achieve closer, faster, more quality and more consolidated assistance; and to harmonize the incorporation of clinical and technological innovations with its effectiveness and security. We want to humanize healthcare, which means uniting the two inseparable parts of good care: on the one hand, the scientific-technical training of professionals, and on the other, the integral and humanistic approach to the patient as a person worthy of respect and full consideration. We also need to move forward in prevention, both primary and secondary, because we can avoid many pathologies or avoid sharpening and worsening by modifying lifestyles and empowering patients and people around them so they can manage their health with criteria, who know the information that allows them to identify alarm signs and how to make the best use of the system. A model open to society, open to people, health services that have the community and social component inherent to the current needs of citizens who demand our attention. All this requires defining a new primary care model with all the positive and well-valued elements you already possess, but more proactive, with the effective incorporation of new communication technologies and information so powerful and so developed in Galicia as a fundamental tool for support for patients and also professionals. A step forward in the evolution of the system without ruptures, with solid steps on the built bases. To illustrate this enormous activity in the field of primary care, I would like to recall that nearly 26 million consultations were held during 2016 in this assistance resource. And I also want to make it clear that a high percentage of health problems are solved in our health centers, more than 90%. At this point, I would like to remind you that older people represent the three-quarters of primary care demand. And that chronic diseases have a prevalence of 20% and account for 70% of health expenditure; in many people there are more than one pathology. To confirm that this path is already started, that we have already taken steps, we can give the following figures for the following programs. The telephone consultation and the Connect 72 program, with a total of about 5.4 million queries, of which 99.8% could be solved without the patient's displacement. In 2016, a total of 2,021,000 telephone consultations were held. The E-Interconsultation of Primary Care-Hospital Care and our clinical services, with a growing activity. In 2014 it was already 59,000; in 2015 it was more than 72,000; and it closed 2016 with 86,596, with an increase of 46,7 % compared to 2014. And the new management agreements include new protocols from this e-Interconsulta. Then I'll go on to describe the performances in each of the areas of work that we address with the formed groups. One very important thing is care continuity. The various assistance resources must be organized in such a way that they maintain proper continuity within Sergas, with the aim of achieving a care continuity that ensures that the patient has a health resource available 24 hours a day. The existence of electronic clinical history, Janus, makes it possible to make significant progress in this objective, but the intention of the Galego Health Service is potential through the following measures. We need to assure people that the care process of your illness is going to be continuous, that there will be no ruptures. Therefore it is necessary to identify and integrate aspects for the improvement of this patient's care continuity in the various transition processes: integrated care processes or care routes; medication conciliation programs; telephone consultation; Connecta72 et cetera. Rapid pathways, through which hospital access for certain serious pathologies is established in less than 15 days, are an obvious improvement in quality of care. In this sense, in the future, they will include not only quick oncological pathways, but also for non oncological pathologies with scientific evidence that they need urgency in this diagnosis. Advances in the management of e-Interconsultation agendas, which will facilitate communication between primary and hospital care, allowing for the establishment of shared follow-up of patients between both assistance resources, prioritising care resolution, computer access and information on the availability and status of consultations. Communications will be used both through Ianus and through videoconferencing among professionals. Access to complementary tests, also very important from the point of view of agility in patient care. We believe in primary care with high resolution capacity. This is a reality today, but we are convinced that it can still be superior. Therefore, access will be given to the request for complementary evidence by all health centres of the Galician Health Service. In addition, we want this access to be homogenous throughout Galicia, that any citizen has access to the same evidence at any health center. Chronic management. We are aware that health is changing in recent years, and it is particularly important for chronic patients. That's why chronicity is one of Sergas' strategic lines, focusing on aspects related to the most prevalent pathologies in Greek citizenship: COPD, diabetes, heart failure, development of specific programs in polymedicated patients, which has already been established in current care practice. The health systems we have were designed to deal mainly with acute episodes of disease, and because of this conception they experience difficulties in responding to the needs of patients with chronic pathologies. This causes this particularly vulnerable part of the population to be exposed to multiple risks, such as inadequate control of their problems, duplication of services and omission of others, infradiagnosis or medical errors. To improve the response capacity of the health organization there are different strategies that share common features, such as the search for proactive care, patient-centred care, continuity of care, promotion of self-care, family support and community participation. According to the latest data available in Galicia, the population aged over 65 is around 25%, and in the province of Ourense is up to 30%. In addition, according to data from the Social Policy Council, approximately 50,000 over 65 years of age live alone, and 300,000 live with a single caretaker of the same age, a trend that will be maintained or even increased in the future. On this stage, you are able to merge the geographic dispersion and increase the dependency of our population. That's why we're developing a chronic care plan that integrates health care and socio-health resources, where primary and hospital care personnel are included. A chronic care plan that puts its focus on primary care, whose professionals will lead this strategy. For its elaboration we count on the collaboration of doctors and nursing staff of the Primary Care Service, Internal Medicine, Palliative Care, social workers and representatives of the three scientific societies of Primary Care and Internal Medicine, among others. For the development of this strategy, we'll have a new version of the electronic clinical history, Janus. At the Galician Health Service, we're working on your update. The new version will include all integrated care processes that aim to facilitate attention to chronicity for the optional. We need to know what each of the primary care coupons is, which is its aid complexity, so a new instrument that we present here is stratification. In order for the measures designed in the strategy to adequately address the chronicity, it is necessary to execute them in those patients who respond to the profile for what was designed. That's why the proper identification of persons who can benefit from them is fundamental. In order to do this, one of the useful tools is stratification of the population. The Galego Health Service currently has a new model of stratification of chronic patients that is estimated to be able to be implemented in the coming months for the total citizenship in Galicia. With its use, we want to identify, through different parameters contained in the patient's history, the degree of evolution of his illness and the need for follow-up that he requires. It is an instrument that classifys the attended population at different levels of gravity and resources that it needs. In addition, we have another fundamental instrument to deploy new interventions or to facilitate what we are doing right now, which is TELEA. TELEA is a project within Innova Saúde and Hospital 2050, which has been awarded at European level because it is a platform for managing chronicity in primary care that will contribute to more proactive primary care, in which the reference professional of each patient will have the necessary tools to monitor chronic patients from home. The development of TELEA will empower people in their disease; that from primary care there is an active follow-up or monitoring that avoids redundancies or worsenings; to gain efficiency in health systems, as professionals can focus on patients who are decompensated or before that decompensation; and to make a real priority of care to patients proactively. Through TELEA, the professional can program through an agenda, on a patient's platform, the taking of biomeasures necessary for his or her disease profile. These biomeasures will flow directly into the patient's digital electronic history, making it possible to follow up on their health data. In addition, on the same platform you can prescribe physical exercise, conducting questionnaires or training courses, among others. In this way, we will insist not only on the pharmacological aspect, but also on the non-pharmacological aspect of disease therapy. Currently, it is found in an already-initiated way at the Santa Comba Health Center, Mazaricos, and in the coming weeks it will extend to two health centers of each of the EOXI of our Greek health system. In total, we now have 20 patients from this health center monitored — as I say — with this system that allows us to know about the patient without being in direct contact with him. Thanks to this platform we can implement a teleassisted control model of the chronic patient from primary care. First of all, it is important to note that TELEA is a monitoring and intercom tool for both health care professionals and patients themselves. And for the latter it's also informative. This proposal is based on the need to develop a teleassisted control model by primary care teams to patients with chronic conditions of their coupons; a model that allows continuous follow-up of the patient, the clinical situation, and which emits a timely warning that can be identified by reference professionals. The nurse will have a key role to play in the follow-up of all these patients, so the progressive incorporation of family and community medicine specialists — already in the next OPE, there will be places that will pick up this new category — will be crucial to follow-up with different types of alarms that will establish an action plan that can be managed directly by the nurse or commented on by the medical professional. In this way, the nurse will perform the case manager functions of chronic pluripathological patients who are at home, with an integral vision that facilitates communication between the person and his professionals. In addition to having a tool like TELEA, it will allow patients with a degree of dependence to be the caretaker who interacts and provides information about the patient's situation to professionals. And how are the patients registered at TELEA? For it can be an independent patient enrolled in the program, the patient himself records his or her constants manually; a large dependent patient enrolled in the program will record the constants the primary care provider manually; or also the case of the large dependent patient, with high-age carer or difficulty in handling new technologies, for which he or she can register automatically by the system. What are the features of this TELEA platform? It allows professionals to have a proactive attitude in patient follow-up. It allows to establish levels of control and, as we said, it also allows contact with the patient within their own home. And health communicated, something very important to us. One of the main functions of both the medical and community nursing staff, as well as social work, is to work with the community, with the objective of knowing what are the most prevalent health problems and to evaluate the interventions needed to cope with them. The Galician Health Service works more to visualize the work of health centres within the community. The development of Community intervention programmes from primary care will enable actions to improve the health of citizens, thereby involving the health system, residential education centres or the third sector. In 2017, we introduced an indicator into the management agreement consisting of a community intervention for each primary care service. Another of the issues to be addressed is what refers to continuing attention points and primary care emergencies. In relation to them, we will provide the population with the information needed to improve the use of resources, focusing on primary care as the first point of attention. It should be remembered that, from the emergencies that occur in primary care centers or continuing care points, 92% of cases are resolved right there and the patient can return home. Only 7% or 8% is due to hospital emergencies. In addition, we will develop a patient-centred care model of the continued attention points, increasing the training resources directed to the workers of the CAP. We will seek adequate coordination between the CAP and hospital and hospital emergency services through the Public Foundation 061. We will draw up a comprehensive emergency plan that will allow the establishment of procedures to ensure quality assistance for emergencies in Galicia. The schedules. We also work on agendas with health professionals, and of course we understand that there must be homogeneous agendas for the entire Galician Health Service. For that reason, a working group will be called up to define the agendas by evaluating the good practices already available in certain areas of Galicia, in primary care, which stand out for its effectiveness and which properly plan the work of our professionals. In primary care too, it is important for us to work violence of external origin, and although it has a small frequency and is usually spoken of verbal aggression, we certainly have to develop preventive policies. We're going to define as a priority the improvement of the warning system between episodes of external labour violence that occur in primary care centers. In this sense, in 2017 we will begin the implementation of primary care in the Acude system, a solution that will allow professionals to communicate a risk situation through various electronic devices — computers, mobile phones, tablets — allowing us to seek help in a simple, safe and discreet way. With regard to training — a fundamental element of the public health system in Galicia — because that is where we have the continued improvement in the treatment of our citizens, we want to increase around 10% of the MIR offer of family doctors. Last year, 2016, 92 were offered, and this year the intention of the German Government is to increase this figure by about 10%. The goal is to reach 100 MIR squares a year. In the same way, within the working day, health-care staff in the primary care category will be provided with permits to attend training courses provided by public authorities. For this reason, an approximate number of annual hours may be granted. Enhance also the role of primary care intermediate controls, developing a special training program to enhance the leadership skills of these primary care intermediate controls. As far as teaching is concerned, the educational residency system requires a training and a job that enables training specialists to acquire, in the accredited teaching units, the professional competences of the specialty. In this framework, and in order to promote also the improvement of the training of tutors and residents of the relevant specialty, measures will be applied to promote in the provision processes the voluntary mobility of primary care professionals who are convened in the Public Health System of Galicia and their involvement in the exercise of the titories of resident staff in training. Normalization for the entire autonomous community of the tutor accreditation process, and explicit recognition of the time devoted to teaching for them. Specific training for these same tutors or facilitation of the administrative tasks they carry out. And, within the research, we advocate a strengthening of the relationship between primary care and health research institutes. The three health research institutes in Galicia: IDIS, INIBIC and IISGS Galicia Sur are the entities that structure the research and carry it out in the centres of Sergas. In collaboration with the institutes we will strengthen the relationship between primary care professionals and research groups of the institutes, incorporating primary care into research promotion activities. And in the public job offer, in the line of labour stability developed in recent years and reflected in the annual and periodic call for selective procedures for the acquisition of the status of a fixed statutory professional, we will carry out an OP 2016 call which is specifically implemented in a total number of 800 places — we speak of staff, in general, of Sergas — which could be doubled, as we have already said in this House, if the general budget of the State is approved. In recruitment policy, because of another management measure, we will seek to ensure that there is care continuity in patient care; adoption and reasonable time coverage; empowerment of skills in the field by the head of service; and definition of a mode of coverage. We also believe that automation of activity is important, enhancing the work of primary care PSXs. To disseminate the availability of the Nursing and Pediatrics module in Ianus and facilitate home care by automating processes and availability of electronic mobile clinical history through a tablet that will be taken to the patient's home, which allows access to the clinical history of the patient in real time, the introduction of necessary clinical information and the realization of electronic prescriptions at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u39	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u40	Thank you, President. Good day to all and all. Good morning, Counselor. Before I begin, I want to move you from Anxo Ricón, who has defended the popular legislative initiative that has just been rejected by the People's Party's votes, which is good that the parabenice, but that it would be better for your group to accept an initiative that is supported by thousands of neighbors and neighbors of the region. [[Applause]] You come here today, Counselor, speaking to us of a new model of primary care. He did a storyteller for several questions, many of them already repeated on other occasions, and there's evidence: that primary care is the first level of care. It's that entrance door, fundamental, for good health. In the decree governing primary care in Galicia it is established that it is characterized by paying close, personal attention, continued over time, based on mutual trust between the physician and the patient, in knowledge by that of the personal, family, labor and environment that surround the person. He stressed that all those activities of improvement, prevention, treatment and rehabilitation should be carried out and promoted in order to promote the full development of the potentials that individuals possess. But the reality is that in Galicia this series of characteristics is not true. It is not true that primary care is characterized by providing close, personal assistance, continued in time and based on mutual trust, because all the steps taken by the People's Party in the German Government are in the opposite direction: to lower primary care, to reduce both material and human resources and to reduce their ability to resolve. The reality is that since 2009 primary care has lost decision-making capacity; there has been a decrease in budgets; personnel cuts; deterioration of infrastructures and paralysis or slowing down of other many planned ones; and the waiting lists have become structural in primary care. This is the balance that the People's Party can present. Of course, at the BNG we argue that primary care must be fundamental, and it seems that no one puts it in doubt. But then the steps taken don't go in that direction. Steps taken by the People's Party? A download and a cut of brutal budgets. In primary care, investments for the year 2009 were €1,436 million; in 2017 it was €1,163 million. I mean, we're talking about a difference between a year and a year of 273 million euros. But the bloodiest thing is that since 2009 the People's Party has made a cumulative cut of 1,782 million euros. I mean, more than the whole budget of a year. It's like over a year and 600 million more euros have stopped investing in primary care. That's the reality of numbers; the numbers of their budgets, of course. I mean, we're talking about a brutal cut in primary care. I'm talking about 1,782 million euros accumulated from 2009 to this budget, 1,917. With fewer resources, we believe in BNG that it's not possible to do more with less, and it's actually verified what the primary care situation is. What is the other balance sheet of the People's Party? The infrastructures. There's a flagrant deterioration in health centers. One day and another we bring to this Parliament situations of health centres with the needs of obvious improvements that are systematically voted against by the People's Party. Then there are the constructions of promised health centers that, of course, their level of execution, it's slow to say; and others have literally disappeared from the forecasts of the councillor, from the forecasts of the People's Party. Primary care waiting lists are already a constant. Deny it, or say what they say, they're being a constant. List of waits for the doctor or primary care doctor of a week, ten days and even fifteen days is being an authentic constant. That's what it takes? Overload of professionals, saturation of emergency services, massification of consultations, professional quotas above the established one, reduction of professionals, non-replacement of retirement, vacations, ILT, and other types of permits or licenses. By the way, I use to ask you again, Counselor, when you've been thinking about negotiating with the union representatives of the workers and workers all these issues of licenses, of permits, that the rest of the professionals, both those who depend on public service directly as well as the Council of Education and Culture, have recognized, have negotiated, have published and are enjoying, and you and your advisors are even refusing to sit down and talk to them. It would be nice if after that, in his reply, he said when they're going to do it. And I'm linked to the personnel cuts, because, within this widespread deterioration of primary care, the staff was one of the big damage. Those working conditions in which a large part of the health care staff find themselves prevent that mutual trust, that knowledge of the patient and his circumstances. We're talking about temporary contracts; we're talking about accumulating tasks; we're talking about part-time contracts; we're talking about cross-substitutions; we're talking about overtime extensions; we're talking about taking over the partner's or side-mate's coupon because it's not replaced. You, in your intervention, on the subject of recruitment, said a few words but did not really commit to recruiting all the professionals for the causality of the casualty or for all the time that that absence of the professionals lasted. At this high temporality we have to add to the aging of a very important part of the professionals, mainly of the optional staff, and without having all the data, because darkness is another of the characteristics of your advisor, Counsellor, we can conclude that in less than a decade there will be a number of retirements and abandonment of the system of a very important part of the optional staff, fundamentally. In recent years, 165 Pediatric retirements have been produced since 2011, and only 20 training courses have been offered this year, Counsellor. Or 315 retirements of family doctors were produced and in this training call offered only 90 squares. I, of course, don't know if at this rate they think primary care will be able to be sustained on low-quality parameters. I'm going to move you here today a series of questions that will move me from my primary companions and companions knowing about your appearance. They ask me the question of when they're going to recover the primary care improvement plan. They would also like to know when the wages lost will be recovered because of the cuts in the People's Party. They also want to know why the topic of substitutions for comrades is not applying the previously agreed criteria, and that the criterion is not "take charge of the side consultation". For when is the resolution capacity of primary care, Counsellor? When will primary professionals be able to request all the necessary evidence in their work? You here announced it, but I'd like to know when and how, if it's going to be right away. And when they are no longer protected, when it will no longer be necessary for a specialist to be responsible — so say — for his work. We'd also like to know all those old steps of Sergas' optional staff, retirement forecast, if you have any plans to replenish those squares. And to finish this first intervention, Counselor, you talked here about a whole series of technological implementations, you said there's a new chronicle management platform, TELEA.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u42	We have a plan, we have a platform, and the question is, where will the professionals stay inside that platform. If you think you're replacing doctors like you just did, for example, at Soutelo de Montes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u44	... already finished, president—where there's an aging population scattered and eliminated doctors and nursing personnel in exchange for this platform, if you think you're changing technology...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u45	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u46	...for professionals, it's a good measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u47	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have the floor by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day again. Counsellor, we want to make some appraisals of what we consider important about primary care from our group in this first intervention. As for some of the things you mentioned, give him our perspective. And also make a series of proposals that we believe can be important, some that have already been made through the ways of this Parliament and some that can be done and that are waiting to be made. First of all, we want to clearly formulate our position with regard to the importance of primary care within the system. Of course, the health model must now be based on primary care and attention to chronicity specifically. These are probably the elements that define or which should define the current health model and the future. Surely to flee from hospital centers, from hospital centers, in view of the fact that the greater investment in primary care, the less real need for specialized care. So even preventive work has a good foundation, especially considering certain conditions relating to Galicia. Chronicity, as you pointed out, needs a little more than 70% of investment, some society points to 80%; in any case, a high figure of investment in health. Counting that a high proportion of the Spanish population suffers from chronic diseases — according to some studies may be about 40% or more — and more in Galicia, where, in addition, one in four people is over 65 years old. So we are faced with a scenario where proximity care needs to be especially relevant. In this sense, we believe that there are two areas that need improvement, which are matters relating to personnel and infrastructure. As for staff matters, there's no staff quality problem. In fact, the good assessments that you have in some surveys and in the primary health care bar itself are based on the quality of care that professionals give; it's the professionals themselves who support the quality of the system. We have been saying for a long time that Welsh health — especially Spanish, but above all Welsh — is maintained thanks to its professionals and despite some deficiencies in management. However, if there is a problem of quantity. There's a quantity problem because we have substitution problems: sometimes substitutions are caught with clamps, and in most places they are non-existent. One can do a very simple search and find news entitled "The lack of substitute doctors prevents the coverage of casualties and leads to primary care.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh The little game would be right where the news is, but it's practically impossible, because I found the same headline in eight or ten different districts of Galicia in a three-minute search, with which it looks like it's not a unit problem, of a particular place, of a certain place, but we have primary substitution problems because we're not equipping the staff that is required according to needs. There are two reasons. One is exactly a staff deficit to replace, especially in pediatricians. And another is that there is always a call — and in this Parliament there is a great deal of use — for the justifiable ratios of staff. On those two issues, the justification ratios are fine, but they define an ideal situation. It's an ideal situation that's almost never happening, because, of every ten doctors who may be in a particular health center, there's often not ten. The ratios are determined for the ten, but often they're not the ten, often they're eight, they can reach up to nine, sometimes they're seven, because there's people who have days, who have vacations, who are sick, or simply have to go to some question even with their work and they can't consult that same day. Therefore, your patients are gathered to the doctor on the side. Today, this morning, in Galicia, there are many doctors who have more than 50 people on the agenda, and this is a hard number. Thus, ratios are placed in situations that are too ideal or utopian for us to consider as valid. We'd have to work on the real ratios, which actually happens. Secondly, there's a problem with the absence of family doctors, but especially pediatricians. The question is, what did we do to solve this problem? Because we can stand still and say there's no way to solve the problem. There are a few pediatricians, and that explains that we don't have pediatricians and that, therefore, we can't replace pediatricians. We stand still and serve as an explanation. From our political group we believe that a government cannot stand still and offer no solution on the matter. There will be methods to try to ensure that, if it's not in the short term, either in the medium or long term, the possibility that more personnel exist. What did we do on the MIR offer with regard to pediatricians? What have we done about the possibility of increasing stability? Perhaps the few pediatricians who were available would prefer to work outside Galicia because they have little stability here. We can make some positive discrimination about certain specialties that are under-treated or that there are few. However, there are no policies related to this and, therefore, we live by chronicling a problem that is going to end up with the family doctors as well, to whom we will begin to care better when we have a real problem of absence, if we don't already have it. On the question of staff, I am well aware of and approve of the safety of professionals. It is true that there is not yet a lot of problems concerning their safety at work, but these are issues that it is important to deal with as soon as possible so as not to extend, and any measures to ensure the safety of professionals will be welcome and will count on the approval of our group. In the matter of infrastructure, I'm not going to stop to remember that primary care improvement plan that you're so defensive and that from our group we consider a very good idea, and we commend you to them the idea of planning with a certain degree of care. True, you can't have a health center in every village; it's impossible, that's obvious. You can't see that every accumulation of ten houses has a health center. But what you can't even assume is planning Galicia with an Excel sheet and Google Maps. Galicia has a certain differentiation from other territories: a more ageing population, a more dispersed population, and it also has certain difficulties in the channels of communication by geographical conditions itself. There are certain difficulties in Galicia that do not exist elsewhere, so we cannot incorporate numerical models from other places, argue with data only that we have a health center at "x" kilometers and that, therefore, as all European ratios say, we are well attended. Sometimes we're talking about people who have a lot of difficulty moving around, and who have difficulty moving even to places that may seem close if you use a purely numerical criterion, but you don't use a little more personal criteria, anyway. So it's necessary to do a case-specific analysis, and sometimes it's necessary to address the more specific locations of health centers that might be that, based on numbers, within an office, they don't take care of, but that reality like this is the demand. So we argue that the infrastructures should be taken into account depending on the specific reality and not on the roles. Secondly, on infrastructure there are certain problems, there is a shortening of facts that usually happen. There is a certain population with an imperative need of a health centre. They demand professionals, they mobilize citizenship. Elections arrive and PP promises a health center. Elections are passed and nothing is done. He blames the county. A sun is required. Then you're asked to be free of charges, then you're asked to be free. There are elections coming, the People's Party promises the health center, it's not done. They pass the elections, they tell the county that this solar isn't worth, that it has to be another. Elections come, PP makes a promise; elections pass, it doesn't meet. And in the end, we have a lot of places that some people look like real estate with as many solars as they are offered and never worth, and we've followed citizens with problems in health centers for years and years. We could quote Saint Lucia, Ames, Cangas, on the Coast of Death several examples. We could quote these, and I'm not saying that curiosity is that most of them are not people of the People's Party. As a good mathematician would say, correlation doesn't imply causality; it's true, even if it smells a little bit. So we look at it when we explain about primary care, but we would like to hear more infrastructure promises, and that in some cases these ratios that are often used, which give reason to citizenship and municipalities, also use them to make the health centers that are needed. Finally, we want to remember some proposals that we have made in this Parliament, first of all, about personnel. I remind you, Mr Counsellor, that this Parliament approved an initiative by the Socialist Party, unanimously, which defended an extraordinary OPE of 1,600 places. I say it because I've seen him hesitate now, and he's started blackmailing that budget again. They have already approved this here in this Parliament, and now I do not have to go back to an initiative they approved a couple of months ago. It's not gonna be that you guys vote one thing here and now you keep doubting the same thing. Be a little coherent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u50	I'm going to finish. We demand through proposals more competences for professionals, innovative chronic products that can be treated in primary care, and broaden the evidence that doctors can ask for. If you agree with this, you can approve it whenever you want, there are initiatives made. And I remind you that they voted against greater competence for professionals, as was the non-derogation of Decree 954/2015 on nurses' indications and some plans to improve — as we said before — the pediatric situation in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u51	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u52	So we have and we have some proposals, we hope we can build them all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u54	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Today we came to hear an appearance like an empty container, without practically any proposals for improvement on its part. We just heard that TELEA program, but the rest of the aspects are repeated from other audiences, some of them and even from the previous advisor. There are words that you repeat, plans and programs that promise to do and repeat in every audience. On the contrary, it's a settlement towards a health model that is not ours at least, it's the health model on the right. We've seen it because, whenever there's an appearance, we expect you to bring us some news about the increase in investments or how they're going to improve the serious deficiencies in primary care, but it's not going to be that way. We have been reporting for years, and we are also debating here, in the debate on budget amendments, the paradigm shift in the health model. A model that abandoned the health prevention and promotion base to focus on hospitalcentrism. It draws your attention to prevention and promotion here today when what they do is really the opposite, leaving precisely those Alma-Ata postulates behind. A model that abandoned universality to return reactionaryly to the insurance model, contrary to all the recommendations of the World Health Organization. A model in which primary care has increasingly less resolutive capacity, so it surprises us what you move all the time here, and the intervention in the community is increasingly an unattainable practice. He called me attention that for you intervention in the community is to put a plan, that if you exaggerate them once every "x" time they make a plan. What we need is more professional to be able to do that work. I'll refer to that now. These statements I make are found in the budgets that are being approved each year in this House; budgets that have actually lost 28.4% in primary care — 28% less budget! — since 2009. It obviously has an impact on the quality of care. Professionals are good, but they can't do what there isn't. And 24% less budgets, in real terms, for the prevention and promotion of health since 2009; 24% less to invest in promotion and prevention. It cannot be said that primary care is being defended in this Parliament and that 28% of primary care is being cut off; some cuts that are also seen and made effective in practice. You were talking about the increase in IRM in the public health system, in this case in primary care, and more than 1,100 primary care professionals are missing. Where are they? Where are they? They have been missing since 2009. The People's Party has numbed its squares, and you say you defend primary care. What's the plan to get these professionals back? We are not even asking — obviously, it has already moved here on initiatives that were approved — what we have asked for and carried in our program, which the professionals are increasing over what was already in 2009. We've got 1,100 professionals less! That's why you can't do the same job or give the same service! Waiting lists in primary care, already indicated here, we're tired of repeating it. And nobody gets away with waiting lists that don't exist structurally, but they're waiting lists that are real. When you ask for a primary care appointment and it takes a week or more than a week to be able to attend. Then we want to educate the population so it doesn't go so far as emergency services, but sometimes this effect happens when there are waiting lists in primary care. What are you going to do with this? There's no proposal in your appearance; less professional, more hopeful. A decrease, in addition, which has affected the loss of services in rural areas. We've talked about it on other occasions. You talk here continually about chronicity, and this is an aspect that affects enormously. We have already denounced it as active and passive, the elimination of services in rural areas affects the vertebration of the territory itself and, of course, it affects what the People's Party says that it cares so much about, which is demographic. So it's a contradictory argument. You say you're defending primary care, like, if we have less and less rural services, if there's less and less professionals? You haven't moved anything you're going to do with the plants, which have obviously been cut off and which are also not covered by the permits. We've been reporting this for years, professionals have been reporting this for years. You didn't bring here any kind of measures, how they're going to reverse this. There is, on the other hand, no measure in which they should be working to solve the absence of pediatricians in primary care. And you say you defend primary care? We've debated this matter many times, and there's not, for its part, a single measure. We proposed several in committee, perhaps better or worse. We already know the measures proposed by the opposition, and it would be good for us to know because that's what the Government is proposing. We realize it's probably not an easy or fast problem to solve. But doing nothing solves absolutely nothing, and you don't have a single measure to solve this problem. You say they defend primary care, how? There is no new benefit. We have defended the necessary interrelationship with mental health, the need for psychologists and clinical psychologists in primary care, proposals always rejected by the majority group. We have complained that the increase in the competences of the male and female public health officers has not been accompanied at any time by the increase in the number of staff to assume this increase in the workload. It's very nice of you to have these skills, but you have to increase your templates. What are you doing? What is your plan on women's health in primary care? You don't bring a proposal here today, we understand that because you don't have it. We have asked for improvements in oral health units, and the direct relationship with primary care, with the presence of dental hygenists. We have just discussed in Commission 5 on the need for increased dental coverage. You've voted against. What are you going to do? What's your plan? What are your proposals? We know those of the opposition, we don't know those of the Government. The shortage of workers and social workers, the absence of physiotherapists in primary care. What is your defense in primary care? What is your plan to increase and provide more coverage in primary care? What are your proposals? We don't know them, I'd like to meet them. She has defended in the previous legislation — and I have already told her that we are going to do so again in this legislation — the implementation, at least by means of a pilot study, of the need for primary care-related school nursing. We were told by the People's Party that it was very interesting but they voted against it. What are you going to do about it? Do you have any forecasts? What opinion does he deserve? And that opinion also deserves community nursing, because you're talking here that it's going to be implemented, but the professionals, despite the debates and agreements that you've had in this House, are still absolutely the same, they're still not valid the merits for the people who want to have the title of specialist. What's your plan, Counselor? We don't know anything. I don't know what you came to expose here today. That 28% less budget is also found in material resources. We have already reported here on many occasions the absence of sufficient materials in primary care, especially at the continuing attention points, and there are structural deficiencies. We once asked for systems of equipment, or means of doing some emergency practice at the continuing attention points, which were not provided. We've also asked for the antibody suits for every time they have to get out of a traffic, and they haven't been provided. What's your plan? What means will the resources of the continuing attention points be provided? Will you pay them once and for all on Sundays and holidays? Will you return your rights to the staff of the continued attention points? Are you going to delete overtime at the continued attention points? He didn't bring us any substantial news. You speak again of the chronicity plan, you come back with the same arguments as in all appearances. There's obviously nothing for the health centers. We don't have any problems with technological innovations, the problem is that if you're doing this when there's a lot of other needs that aren't being met. We knew this was going to happen. In the previous legislation I asked myself and we were already told that in this period there were no Feder funds for health centers. And so we are, that there's a lot of needs from new health centers that you're still failing to meet. Why? Because they don't put their own budget either. There are 400,000 euros for the equipment of the new health centres and 100,000 euros for the improvements of the health centres. I suppose you know better than I do, because it's your responsibility, as the country's health centers are: how they are from infrastructures, how they are from humidity, how they are from droplets, how they are from deterioration. It's EUR 100,000 for all of Galicia, in one year, for improvements in primary care in health centres. Counselor, what brings us here today? We, I say, are not against these improvements, but there are other necessary things, and you really don't have any kind of proposal. You're talking about the fact that there's a lot of resolution capacity in primary care. Quite contrary to reality, quite contrary to what professionals tell us, that they have fulfilled their predictions of the warnings they were carrying out when you removed the primary care agencies. More dependence on hospitals, less resolution capacity and less decision-making capacity, because decisions are not made in primary care. Decisions on primary care, which should be the foundation of the health system, are taken into special care. You take care of primary care. Counselor, I'm done. 28% less budget, more than 1,100 professionals less, Counsellor, what is your plan for primary care. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. President, before I begin my speech, and with your permission, I would like to recall in this Chamber Mr. José Luís Garea Bales, local Carballo police, who died last weekend in service. [[Applause]] Counselor, you and I know that alcohol causes health problems, but it also causes safety problems for innocent people. From our group we ask that all possible measures be taken to prevent these types of situations, where alcohol abuse is present, from happening again in no case. And moving on to the subject of attendance, we thank you from the Popular Group, Counsellor, for your presence in this Chamber to inform this House of such an important topic for the present and future of public health as attention to chronicity, which seems to be despised for moments by opposition groups, and of the important role that chronicity plays in primary health care. It's very easy to come here talking about primary care, and especially primary care in rural areas, without knowing very well how it develops. Mrs. Prado said that in Galicia there is no close attention, that in Galicia there is no close attention to the sick. What do you have to hear? In Commission 5a, on health issues, opposition groups are repeating isolated demands, lacking any kind of coordination, and absolutely short-term practitioners. Recent examples we have, since the creation of a pediatrician square in a municipality that had just over a hundred children; the creation of a CAP in another municipality with 5,000 inhabitants; or even if we talked about Soutelo, where it actually amortized a primary care square and moved to another municipality because quotas are far below the minimum requirements for a primary quota. And what do they want with that short-sightedness? They want to wear out the Government and, on the other hand, win vows to be able to rule in these councils or to change the Government of the Union of Galicia. But the Greeks and the Greeks, Mr Counsellor, are much wiser than they and have just given almost half the votes and the absolute majority of the Members and the Members on this side of the bench. In addition to that, each and every one of the surveys shows that Welsh public health is highly valued. We're talking here about the Sanitary Barometer -- you said -- 9 of every 10 good or very good. There is a 2016 survey of the Federation of Associations for the Defence of Public Health, no suspect of collaboration with the People's Party, which places Galicia of the sixth Spanish autonomous community above the average. News in publications around the world on Spanish health are constantly being published. I'd mention here Mr. Moreira to the publication The Lancet, of the Gates Foundation, which ranks the countries. Indeed, it puts the press headline that is the eighth, but of course, the first is Andorra and the fourth, fifth and sixth, discounting Andorra, are tied with Spain, with which Spain has the fourth best health in the world. And it has already been reported here that France is the tenth fifth; Germany, the fifth; Great Britain, the most common; and the United States, the farthest fifth. What's that survey based on? For it is fundamentally based on universality. It values the universality of assistance, values investment, values equity and values innovation. That is precisely the opposite of what the opposition says, what it tells us in Parliament after sitting and commission after commission. This study collects data until 2015. It includes the worst data from the crisis, where we were told here at all, that it was cut, that it was disbanded, and that it was privatized. And with those data from the years of the crisis, Spain is the fourth country on the list in the study of this foundation published by Lancet. This group, Counsellor, is concerned about the future of public health in the face of the paradigm of chronicity and the changes that the system has to take to respond to this new situation. Last week, the findings of the chronicity group of the Spanish Society of General Medicine were published in Medical Writing, with a headline that I think has to make us reflect on all the Members and Members of this House. "The chronicity will limit access to health care for healthy patients." This statement is based on the increase in the care commitment that will need this group of patients in the immediate future, and that can put equity between patients into check. It speaks of this working group, as you have said in your intervention, to educate the patient to be cared for through a structured education. In this way you will be an active patient who will not need to go to your health center, being able to manage your own disease. The role of nursing in this active education must be enhanced.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And I add what you just said: the important work that nurses specialize in family and community nursing. The president of the Spanish Patient Forum stated at that same congress that it considers it necessary to empower the patient in what health education refers to, in order to save the national health system thanks to a healthier society. Speaking of this, I remember the speeches of the opposition group vocabularies in the past legislation — you haven't been all — when you were talking about the telephone consultation, about the 72 Connecta programme, about teleassistation, about this kind of thing, which all were to save and not to put up professionals. It was rejected by some what is seen as a future for health all over the world, right now all over the world. Of course, the Spanish public health system, like the others, was designed at its time to meet acute. Despite that, he contributed to reaching a level of health in the population that was unthinkable 35 years ago, when this spokesman began to work in a town in the interior of Lugo called Antas de Ulla and we had the luxury of having a municipal health center, which at that time were not common. The material was purchased by the doctor: sink, tensiometer, gloves, sutures, everything had to be bought by the doctor. Then, in 1989, I was transferred to Malpica-Berganginos and rented a flat to pass the consultation. I'm not telling you how it happened in Buño anymore. He passed by on a teleclub, no shirt, no desks and no blinds. See if there's any difference between 1989 and 2017! And how did we live the doctors then? We lived completely isolated, not legal guards between comrades, it was supposed to be 24 hours. We worked a little for art -- when we talked about the art of medicine -- today we work with scientific evidence. And, of course, here it is said that the Government of the People's Party and the People's Party have something against public health and destroy public health. The evolution of recent years — and many of those years in Galicia have ruled the People's Party — can be seen. You can go to any municipality and you can see how primary care is and how it was. The system was good, it was better than in many other countries, because insurance provided that most of the population had free health care. From this rostrum I also want to pay tribute to the rural doctors, the old rural doctors, who worked alone. I didn't pick up the time of the horse, but I did match some fellow with no clues, no phone, at any time of the day 24 hours a day. I think it's a figure we have to claim. [[Applause]] This shift from traditional isolated model to health centres has completely changed primary care. The Internet has greatly facilitated the training of doctors. The Galician clinical history, the Yanus, and the electronic recipe have completely changed the working paradigm. And now primary care, Counselor, we know you have to change again because you have to adapt to people's new demographic and chronic circumstances. We have a society that lives longer, increases pathologies and increases health spending. Today even pathologies like cancer — which were acute and caused short-term deaths — are chronic pathologies. It lives for many years and takes up a lot of resources, both medication and healthcare, and all that can endanger the system's sustainability. We thank you from our group, Counsellor, for bringing about the actions you have made and for the actions you are planning to take to achieve this rebound of primary care, which is the unquestionable support of attention to chronic ills. In chronicity the primary must be the fundamental step: the health centre must be opened to society. We have to get out of the walls of the health center. We have to go to health education and make health planning outside the centers. And we have to take care of, as you said, the sick much closer at home than at the health center and, of course, before the hospital. The role of nursing in that ear must be fundamental. We have to work with chronicity in any way with sustainability, and for that, this new model is fundamental. We believe that the joint work done by the Council technicians, the collectives of professionals and patient associations is important. And we also consider it very important, from our group, the proposal to humanize health care. It is necessary to associate the training and technical training of the professionals of the system with respect and consideration of patients as individuals. The figures that have been consulted — 26 million, demand, chronic demand — are figures that show the importance of this problem. We need to direct our health towards chronicity, always maintaining the system's sustainability. Technologies are important, and Janus with the new versions and the TELEA platform will be indispensable tools for this new primary care model. Finally, I want to make a comment. People think that MIR's medical specialists form like churros, and that's not the case. Spanish education is a formation that is what it is, as it is, and it has the valuation that it has because professionals are trained with the right curricula, and it's not easy to train many more of those who are being trained today. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u57	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u58	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, it's curious, because the conclusions we draw from the Government and the opposition are always very similar. We say that we all agree that primary care is very important, but then, from there, the total disqualification of the Greek health system begins, and I think it's a big mistake. It's a big mistake, first, because citizens at the Health Barometer make their assessment, and that's not a survey that does the Government, it's a survey that is exactly done completely without political influence, in which 9 out of 10 Greeks say primary care is good or very good. Primary care has an immediate response and a response close to the citizen, so it's so important. It is also sad that the opposition always remains in parameters that could have certain value ten, fifteen or twenty years ago, but today we have to do another type of valuation. That's why I think it's important what we present here today, which is applying technology not to replace staff, not much less, but precisely to improve their work. The theme of the budget is always drawn up and an artificial division is made: that the budget of primary care decreases. I said Mrs. Solla a 28, then I said a 24. I don't know if it was a 28 or a 24, but it's not true. The Council has only one budget, and that budget increases year by year. It went from 33 to 34 % of Galician budget to the current budget, which is 42%. And we are precisely the integration that we have done a while ago is that there is no primary and hospital, but there is health care for patients, for the citizens of Greece. And we're not going to make any barriers, of course, where we shouldn't. We're criticized at the same time as the budget declines, that integration is very good to care for citizens, but that we should once again create the primary care manager. I think it's not about that, it's about knowing the model we want to act with, and about it, of course, the structure has to be as flat as possible. It doesn't have to be numerous, it just knows what we want to do. And what we want to do clearly is that there are no barriers between primary and hospital, that the patient does not move meaningless, that the patient is cared for. Where? Well, as I said, at health centers, hospitals or home. It's not the time to talk about ADO, but ADO has changed the mindset of many people, managers and citizens, because it's happened that citizens and their families want, accept very good grades, care at home. And we want to implement it from primary care, of course, by empowering ADO as we can. Last year we took ADO to all areas of health in Galicia; Monforte and Verín were the last areas and are already present. So when it comes to reducing the primary budget, it's not true. Last year there was a needs plan of 5 million euros that we used for each EOXI, dividing it between the EOXI according to the number of citizens assigned, and of course an important part went to primary care. We're also doing health centers, we've just finished health centers. We just opened health centers very recently, in rural areas of the interior with very few inhabitants, because we understood that the situation in the previous center was not adequate for attention. And we're working on projects from new health centers. We have new projects on the table. Some are limited because, as Mr. Torrado said, there is some council that does not adequately make available the lands that are in principle agreed upon. That's why we sometimes delay, unfortunately, the construction of some health center. And as you said about Ames and Caldas, I'm going to talk about Ames and Caldas. In Ames there was a problem—and the mayor and his government team know very well because we were there signing the agreement—of judicial judgments against an urbanization where they said they'd put the health center. And when they solved that, it turns out there was a problem with Heritage. They've been delaying him all this time — obviously not on a voluntary basis — but it's not a responsibility of the Health Council. In Caldas we have a very good relationship with the mayor of Caldas and we're clear that a health center has to be established. We're in negotiation and he's looking for a proper plot. And I think — because I know him very well — that he's a person concerned about improving health care in his county. Of course, we, as soon as we are, do a construction project. We're assuming health centers that are municipal and we're already doing maintenance. In fact, the last deal with Fegamp was 28 new centers from which we're going to take that maintenance. We're still investing, this is real investment what we're doing. The Better Plan. Look, it's just that Plan Better always comes out. I said the other day to one of the people who defended the Best Plan, who said he was one of the creators of the Best Plan: if you get to charge for every time they quote the Best Plan, you could withdraw right now. Because the Better Plan spoke a lot but nothing was done. In this famous bipartisan government — Socialist Party and BNG — nothing was done at all, it was very good in the headlines. And if they said things they want to hide right now, like they were closing the CAP — points of continued attention. That's not said, and that was Plan Better too. But realities, none. We do, we want to make reality. We're presenting models here that will improve health care. And it's not just talk about teleassistion, which is an important factor, or to prevent there from being more professional, but for these professionals to have a direct relationship at all times, that they know the pathologies they have and how they are at that time. Although unfortunately, even if we can have a health center, a larger marriage that lives a mile away has a problem with accessibility to it because it's not a problem of miles, it's a problem of what we're saying: aging population. I used to say Mr. Torrado that the Greek health system is very good. What's good about the Greek system is professionals, managers are very bad. I, of course, advocate that professionals be very good, but of course, there is a health policy that is also marked. And it turns out it's funny that here we're talking about Ianus, talking about electronic revenue, talking about interoperability and electronic revenue — that we have only five communities — about electronic history — that we have very few communities, that's because one day the Ianus system appeared in health centers. No, it's because there was a health policy that awarded innovation. And we have European innovation awards because we are looking for things to improve the quality of health care. And they push us in Europe because Europe will go through the same situation that we are going through in a few years and want to learn from it. When we were in Brussels a few months ago, they just wanted to know about the model of innovation in Greece because it was something they knew they were going to have to apply in a very short time. That's why we're talking about TELEA today, but we're not talking about TELEA as a European innovation award, we're talking about TELEA as already applied in Santa Comba and Mazaricos. But in the pilot project it also applied to internal medicine in the ULA, in Lugo, to follow patients with certain pathologies. And we're going to move forward because we're going to integrate diabetic children into the TELEA too. And that these determinations that mothers or parents of these children often record several times a day, they can integrate and jump an alarm to the specialist nurse or the specialist doctor by saying, this child has several determinations of a high level of danger; you have to locate it, you have to call it, you have to attend it or go home. That's why it's so important. And we're still defending more things, like training. Why do we defend training? The People's Party Member said so, training in Spain is very good, but it has a number of limitations. We have to be able to form what we really have the capacity to form. And the ministry marks the number of specialists to form. We have accreditations according to the Ministry. In Pediatrics, 20 accreditations; 20 pediatricians who form each year. We are at the maximum level of use. But we also delayed retirement. We agree that there were specialists, that there were professionals, that it was a pity that at the age of 65 they had to leave. And we changed the regulations for the first time in Spain to try to get these professionals to continue contributing to the health system. In the first year, there was 20 percent who wanted to do it, I think it's enriching for them. And we'll keep working. Look, we have a very good pediatrician, very well-trained pediatricians. And we have very good pediatric assistance that reaches many corners of the Galician geography. But obviously, if we want to take a pediatrician to absolutely every Greek council, it will be impossible because they don't have it anywhere in Spain or Europe, there's no such model. We are now valuing with the professionals precisely to improve the model of care, not in number, that we have the maximum number of trained pediatricians, but in service to the children, to the children, which is what matters to us, and with that we are. Look, the German system uses only 10% of family doctors to care for children. And I'm just saying 10%. I'm a family doctor, and the family doctors have training to care for the children, perfectly, but here's a model that pulls the pediatrician, and I think it's okay. In other communities, more than 50 percent of primary pediatrics are performed by family doctors. We're, like, 10%. So, there's special care using all the possibilities, but we're working because we want to improve, we don't want to stay still in pediatric care. With whom? With the professionals, they help us review that model and improve it. He also said Mr. Torrado that it seems that we are changing the theme of the OPE, extraordinary OPE. It wouldn't be an extraordinary OPE, it would be a double OPE of which we have, if, among others, the Socialist Party is helping us in Madrid and helps us to approve the general government budgets. It's not blackmail, it's just a service to the citizen, defending the citizen. I think politicians are going to help the citizen, and it would be good. I know that in the Socialist Party right now they're on a different subject, not as important as the general government budget. But we say we all agree. If they want a double OPE we've already prepared, they collaborate and we can approve the general state budget. I think it would be very good for everyone. We're still, of course, doing a lot of performances. The number of numerous millions of queries per year is reality. Now, call me the attention that Mr. Torrado knows there are 50 in each of the consultations today because the average doesn't come from 26 patients per consultation. Maybe some people are 50, but the average is 26. And we have to improve it. Look, we went down from over 20% administrative consultations just a few years ago to 7%. That time you used? It is, of course, used to assist and avoid administrative proceedings. We keep working, in all respects. In infrastructures, of course, but also in technology, and especially in professionals. That's why these working groups we're developing. I was saying Mrs. Prado when and what time we got. The idea is to develop it over these months and before the end of this year to make this kind of improvement, which will improve — as I say — the quality of service but will also help a much more favourable working environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u59	Thank you, Counselor. Replica from the groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u60	First, Counsellor, I ask you not to miss the truth in this Parliament and not to insist that the resources have increased in primary care. Year 2009, primary care 1,436,746,424; year 2017, 1,163,662,333. That, whoever knows how to add and subtract, gives 233 million less between one year and another, and if we're going to accumulate the fewer it was 2010, 2011, 2012, 2015, until 2017, we're talking about 1,782 million euros less invested in primary care. I repeat, it means a lot more than leaving the whole year to zero euros primary care. Training theme. It's a mantra too, Mr. People's Party Member. What they can't do is, first, to hide behind the state, that it's the state that decides. The question is how much you demand from the state to change that situation, or how much you're willing to fight and not put behind you that there's no professionals. First, there are no professionals because they don't make any effort to increase this training. If we've been saying that there's no pediatricians, there's gonna be something to do for them. They've been mistreating professionals for years, with which many professionals walk outside. And we could keep saying why the professionals are in the situation they are in. I know you like to paint Galicia in the country of wonders. Here's the question of painting as you like, but reality is another. And I ask you, Counselor, that you do not try to remove your breast by saying that 28 new health centres will be taken care of. It's just that the health competency is from the German Government, it's yours, Counselor. There's a pact signed more than ten years ago according to the Galician Union if you had to take care of all Galician health centres. And ten years later you're not taking charge of half, not half, please! For a headline it may be worth it, but reality is stubborn. Look, the reality is that primary care is becoming more and more invisible. Of course, it won't be BNG that's against technological developments. Have new tools, be at technological vanguard, is it good? Yes, if that doesn't mean in return there are no professionals to meet those priorities, in return it's not a cut in staff. And in exchange for technological improvement, it's not an objective in itself to deliver it to certain companies. One of the questions I also want to ask you, Counselor, is this platform going to follow the same path as the sanitary trucks? Because it was also money from the European Union, European programmes, which seems to be nobody's money, the Council makes them programmes. For example, they turned them into sanitary trucks, and the last information we have is that they were parked there, in front of Conxo, with no use at all. And that is the question: if these European aids to direct a new public health system towards technological solutions that sell us so enthusiastically, it will mean decapitalization of the best public health resource, which has primary care, which is your staff. The most precious resource of public health in Galicia is its staff. And you're personally decapitalizing public health, primary care, to capitalize on technology, and that's what can't be. What can't be is decapitalizing on one side to capitalize on another. What has to be complementary is going along parallel lanes. And you guys are going in the opposite direction, decapitalizing human resources for technology, and that's not the way, that's not the way! It's also not the way to deliver all those technological resources to private companies, because every announcement you bring here, Counsellor, means to deliver more decision-making power to private companies; more decision-making capacity to private companies. It's a lot of questions that I'm going to be unable to ask. The point is, which servers are going to use for these new technologies, who will pay the devices, will pay us patients or will Sergas pay them? Who will be the beneficiaries of that new system? How much are you going to pay these private companies? Who's going to win? Is it really the Welsh and Welsh or these companies, which you've given a very important part of the public resources to the Popular Party's councillor? The sale of the devices, the installations, the maintenance, the replacement. Who's going to be business with all those questions? How are these technology systems going to be implemented in a situation like Galician, where we have a lot of sites where access to networks is not possible, where access is very limited...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u62	...where do we have a tremendously old population? You gave a tremendously significant data. That is, 25% of the population over 65, 300,000 with a caretaker of the same age. Are these devices the solution for primary care with this spectrum of the population, Counsellor? Of course, at BNG we don't think so. And most of all, it seems to us that I didn't see here today, in any of your words, that there was a commitment to capitalize on human resources for primary care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u64	As long as there's no such commitment, the rest are sun gifts, business for companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u66	...and not an improvement in primary care, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to try to comment on most of the subjects that were exposed here now, though they were extensive, and not all of them with the greatest of the clarity. The first thing I want to congratulate is the powerful argument that health is very good because thirty-five years ago it was worse. It's a very powerful argument, very strong, Mr. Núñez Centeno. [[Applause]] He's got a little replica, little one. The health care of thirty-five years ago was worse and improved, above all, thanks to the General Health Act of 1986, which you know perfectly well. You must know it, because you're supposed to know it, but they voted against it. So he's fine as an argument, but he has a little problem. Ratings and data. Galician primary care is effectively rated with more than 7 users. What's important is to be comparative. All autonomous public health services in Spain are valued above the 7, with which it's not a merit, it's not a differential fact. All right, but it's not a differential fact, Counselor, it's not a differential fact. I can explain, if you want, in statistical terms what is a differential fact, but it's not a significant difference. As you can explain, if you like, this is Lancet's survey, which is very good, that we are very well valued, but I'm surprised they put me here in primary care. You know, you know, you know, you know -- you know, you just think that the others don't know, that Lancet's survey specifically explains at the end that in upcoming surveys, in next rankings, they'll have to include primary care because it's a very important element of the health system, but now they don't have it. It only evaluates something that is very important, which is the response of the health system to 32 fatal diseases. Yes, it's very good that we're well valued, but it says explicitly that primary care is not measured and that it's a pending topic. As he also says, the system's inequality is not measured, which is a pending theme. Just like when they measure the system's inequality we're already going worse. Finally, by saving us from being blamed on our group that we don't care about, look, I didn't want to get the subject out of it, but on the importance that we give to health care in the committee, in the last Health Committee, that your group had two issues to take, it took one because you don't occupy the issues in the Health Committee, and your topic was to change the name of the Coast Hospital to be called Marine Hospital. Anyway, the importance of health, that's the problem of health, changing the name to a hospital, at last. I didn't want to tell you, but I don't want to be blamed for the fact that we don't bring any issues, we don't debate, we don't make any proposals, Mr. Núñez Centeno, when they proposed to change their name to a hospital... yet little original: Coast Hospital, Marine Hospital. They could call it someone's name or something. I didn't talk about Caldas, about the health center, about Cangas. He didn't tell me about Cangas, he didn't tell me about Ames, even though he quoted it. And he didn't explain to me why they quote the same health centers as pledges in 2017 in the budgets, in 2018 they're going to quote them, because they've already quoted them in 2016. And on the assumption of maintenance of the health centre, that agreement with the long-term Fegamp, there has been an initiative here in this Parliament, not long ago, and they voted against it. It's an agreement already signed, but they voted against it. I could quote you more, The Island, The Grove. If there are health centres, curiously in either of them governs or the People's Party. As I say, correlation does not imply causality, but smells. Yes, the formation of MIR is complicated, of course it's complicated! Because that's why we want to have great professionals. Of course, it's not something we're going to find out. And yes, we've only trained 20 professionals in Pediatrics. Is it not possible to negotiate to have more? I'm asking. Is it not possible to form 25? Is it not possible to provide greater stability especially, to make positive discrimination towards some specialties to have more? Maybe it's possible. It's a matter of will. Otherwise, we wouldn't have such symbolic things as there's a demand for the replacement of a pediatrician — who doesn't replace himself — in a suburb of Coruña, which is the neighborhood with the largest school population in Galicia, which is the New Month. And he's having trouble replacing a pediatrician, it's paradoxical. I've told you many times that the oldest province in Spain, which is Ourense, has no unit in Jericho. I think it's a planning problem, but at last. OPE is not extraordinary, but it's double, which is usually not. Well, we can call it whatever it is. You approved this OPE here, with your vote, Counselor. They agreed to make an OPE of 1,600, not now put the condition of Spain's budgets. And don't put it because you voted here; if not, you voted against. You can't say now that you can't do it, but when you have to vote against it, you must vote against it. Then you'll explain what it's like to vote for something and then say it can't be done. I say it because they start doing it so many times that I'm interested in knowing what that is. And yes, don't worry, you'll find mechanisms to approve the budgets. But I've already told you here: even if they didn't approve, they're going to do this OPE, you've approved this initiative here. I insist, we're not going to approve the budgets, I'm almost sure, and I'm telling you that OPE is going to be done. And finally, you made some ads and I'd like you to explain if it's true or not that the Acude program doesn't work exactly, that you have to use a lot of personal mobile phones to use it. And as they're going to solve the problem of teleassistive connectivity, because to implement systems like APP -- which is very interesting -- so that older people have telephone support via Internet connection, first you have to take the internet to these people, which many of them live in the Background or in the Complaints Chain, which are 90 years old and have difficulty connecting to a mobile phone with an APP. It's very difficult sometimes, it's not that easy. I remember in a county where they asked if emails worked on weekends. And yet, there are some people who don't use those things so well. Nothing said about that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u70	...and nothing said about our proposals. I say this because the People's Party always goes up here saying that we don't make proposals. I planted what we did here and what they're about to do and nothing valued us on primary care, which I think were interesting proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u71	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u72	Thank you, President. We're talking here about dequalifications of the health system. I don't know if sometimes they don't want to hear or understand well. Of course, we have a good health system, better than many other countries. The problem is that with all those cuts — although they are 28% nominally — of the last few years, the system is obviously worse because it has less resources. That's a basic thing in economics, I don't even believe in health. Therefore, it is obvious that we cannot provide better assistance and that assistance deteriorates despite the fact that professionals are still very good, that we are very good professionals and that the system continues to maintain an acceptable average quality. But you have to admit that with fewer resources, less personnel, more privatizations, it's more and more difficult to pay the same attention, it's obvious that it can't be provided. I would ask them to abandon this debate of translating the words that move the opposition. Now it seems like subtracting decision-making capacity from primary care is keeping barriers. You love working with euphemisms. The reality is that, Counselor, you don't realize that we have less executives, you just changed them from place to place, you just changed them from place to place. I don't think you've fired anyone because they're public officials in this case. The reality is that what we have is primary care that does not have the ability to make decisions, which depends directly on hospitals, and the same number of managers and directives in our public health care in general. And that's how the budgets and splits are corroborated. Therefore, Counselor, less confused and more transferable reality. Obviously, we defend the recovery of primary care agencies, and that doesn't mean they work isolated from specialized care. If you think it was that way before, it'll be because you didn't manage health well. I would also like you to take advantage of the presence, in addition to responding to everything I asked you in the previous intervention, to move us to invest in these millions of euros that are devoted to non-EU means, i.e. private, primary care, because they come every year in budgets and we don't know what they are investing in, what companies are going to stop. If you can do the favor, explain it too. Welcome to this transfer of health centres from the different municipalities to the Health Council, because they have been paralysed for years, as you yourself recognized in the Health Commission, in Commission 5a. And you say this year is going to be over 28. The problem is, Mr Counsellor — I repeat — that there is an budget of EUR 100,000 for the maintenance of health centres. That is, 100,000 euros for all of Galicia and they have 28 new health centers to take care of; health centers that are often in a situation with at least very necessary improvements and very serious architectural barriers, because we continue to have many architectural barriers in our health centers. We're not against innovation either, we've already moved it. What's the problem? The problem is, innovation can't lead to a reduction in staff, even innovations need the most personal. You argue here that both nursing and medical professionals are going to have more data now, they're going to have more relationship with those patients who are in their homes. Who's gonna manage that? Who's gonna be waiting? Who will be able to give such assistance if, I repeat, we have fewer professionals — 1,100 less, data from the Ministry — since you are in government? Clearly, when there are more services, we need more professionals to take care of, and the trend is totally the opposite. Please don't fool us. Move us what is your plan for improving the number of professionals in primary care. It moves us what it's going to do with oral health, what it's going to do with physiotherapy, what it's going to do with mental health in relation to primary care, what it's going to do about women's health planning, what it's going to do to actually give that prevention and health promotion. By the way, you didn't hear well, but you should know, if budgets are 28 million less in real terms in primary care, 24 less in prevention and health promotion, which is a different program. You were talking about training professionals, but they have just voted in Commission 5 against increasing training precisely to combat this failure to comply with the health system's incompatibilities. And we'd like to know what you're going to do with your incompatibilities also in primary care with those agencies, with those directions, of which you think you're still failing to comply with the current legislation. Anyway, there's no time to go on. You didn't bring any new proposals beyond that program, and I'd like you to respond to everything we moved to. The reality, Counselor, is that it's 28 million euros less, 1,100 less professional and less primary care, for many technological innovations that you want to remedy your inability to manage. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, listening to you, Mrs. Prado, it is clear that you are completely unaware of the MIR system. I don't know if they want to go back to the time of 1975, when they went into medicine to study 1,100 or 1,200 people and then went to the hospital behind the famous cathedral, like chickens, 50 or 60 MIR students. It makes me feel like you have enough... you don't know the system too much, do you? You also always talk about the local pact, but you never say, Mrs. Prado, that the 2006 local pact said that everyone would be transferred in 2009. And there had been zero potato transfers, that potato! Not the first, from 2006 to 2009. Of course, Counsellor, no group is against technology or technological advances or information technology, but when we discuss budgets, everyone wants to remove parts from there to put them into other things, which we don't see either. I think from now on Sergas has to start thinking about manufacturing magnetic resonances, TACs and another set of appliances, because if we're getting rich at companies, we'll eventually have to be or will have to be you, within the company itself, who make the appliances. With regard to Mr. Torrado, man!, I believe that Mr. Torrado will not deny me the ability to analyze the evolution of the primary health care system in the last thirty years. I think I know something about that, Mr. Torrado. It seems bad to you that I quote him, but the advances are there. And on the other hand, it bothers you to compare but then you compare the community at the Barometer saying that the others are good too. I think that's not excessively congruent. And of course, since there's not much more to talk about and chronicity doesn't matter, we've drawn out the initiatives of the committee that we think we are; an initiative — it made you and your companion much more thankful for that day — that proved to be nice to them. With regard to Pediatrics, nothing but repeating what the counselor said. I mean, in other autonomous communities they're like they are, and we've already talked in Commission 5 that there are six countries in Europe that have pediatrics in primary care and the rest don't have it. If that's bad for you, I have nothing else to say in this field. Of course, Counsellor, we have made a great deal of progress in Galicia in implementing measures that appear to be reflected in all the chronicle documents of all autonomous communities. I checked the Catalan, the Basque, the canary, Balearic and Andalusian. In everyone it appears, and it appears as things of the future, many subjects that in Galicia are solved, right? The theme of Ianus and electronic recipe, 100 percent of the population, I think it's fundamental. The telephone consultation, for which we have had so many headaches in this Parliament, not only makes it easy for the citizen not to go to the consultation, but also to organize the consultation of the doctor who is inside, right? I was working and they were calling all morning and cutting themselves, even a gesture of lack of education with respect to the person who was sitting in front of the professional. It's organized, it's done with the open clinical history ahead and it doesn't bother the present users who are with the doctor at that time. Connect 72 more of the same. It facilitates the care continuity of the processes that needed hospitalization, it's called home. The people who told me about Carballo are happy with the system, they think it's a good thing. Stratification. We're with stratification, it was also something that seemed strange and today it appears absolutely in all of the chronic strategies. And it's going to be the future, it's going to be what's going to decide the priority of treating chronic patients. Galicia is certainly a pioneer in the development of new technologies that apply to health issues. The continuing updates of Janus are an example. That's why we trust that the TELEA platform will also be a reference in the attention of chronicity in the patient's own home. Patients have to be much more proactive. Not only do you have to monotorize constants, you have to have a direct channel of communication between the home and the professional. Basically, here's the role of nursing what we were talking about before, of family and community nursing, of the case manager nurse, who has to be responsible for coordinating all this work that is done from home. All of this will prevent redundancies and will also be able to check for aggravations since the consultation itself, aggravations produced at home. And all of this is going to make it more efficient, spending more time and resources on decompensating patients, always giving priority to the most serious ones. On the same platform you can prescribe exercise, diets, information to patients, mail, video conferencing, etc. This teleassisted control model will facilitate the follow-up of chronic patients through the responsible professional, who will, in fact, receive such alerts. He was piloted in the municipality of Santa Comba and Mazaricos. Now it's going to extend to six municipalities. We trust that the data will be good, that it will be correct, as it can be, for example, the difficulty it has, or that it can have the identification of the patient versus the security of the data, and, if that is corrected, we think it will be a good tool to improve the health of the population of the Greeks and the Greeks, especially in rural areas. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u75	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Close the show, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just going to clarify some of the things, because I think that you don't usually want to have too much information, it doesn't matter. More or less he already wins with a pre-established speech. Some speech has been over four or five years and they're not going to move about it. But look, I told Mrs. Prado that it's incredible, that there's been an agreement for many years now to take care of health centers by the Health Council. Right, right. And he was ruling the Bipartite, where you... yes, yes, no, laughing, but they were forming part of that government. Do you know how many health centers at that time you started to maintain the Health Council? None, none! So I think giving theoretical lessons is very good, and what happens is, when it comes to practice, we can't take it. Look, all the innovation issues are a health policy issue that this council and this government of the Galician Union has always been very clear, and, as I say, Europe gives us the reason. He was talking about health trucks. Health trucks are training right now in Coruña, then in Vigo, they were already in Santiago. Training precisely for professionals of primary care on different subjects. They have a proper use to improve the health system, which is what we want. When we're talking about prevention, we're reducing the economic amounts in prevention, which is prevention being done at different levels, it's done at the primary level, but the Public Health Directorate also has a very important part. We remember the vaccination schedule of both the child and the adult, and also the prevention campaigns for breast cancer, and the last one — the perinatal deafness too — is that of colon cancer, which we moved forward in five years to the national goal of having the population covered before 2023. We're going to move forward, because this year we're going to end the deployment throughout the territory. That's not what we're talking about either, but we're having very positive results that will clearly decrease the morbidity and mortality of most common cancer in Galicia. [[Applause]] To also say that it is true that an initiative has been taken by the People's Group on the issue of the name of Burela hospital, but the really important thing will do so a long time ago, when they proposed the extension of that center. At this point, the greatest expansion that this hospital has ever had -- a hospital of great activity, with magnificent professionals. By the way, after many years it was achieved. It is obviously an initiative of this Parliament, an initiative of the people who now also propose the change of name, simply because the population of the Navy is a population of the coast and the interior and so they want to represent it, it seems reasonable. But the most important thing is that this Government of Galicia has achieved the greatest expansion of this hospital. [[Applause]] I also said Mrs. Solla that everything is worse, primary care is worse. For I would ask whether the neighbors of Panxón, Oia, Marín, Tui, Artexo, Pontedeva, the Chapel, Culleredo, Cambre, Barbadas and many other places, which have a new health center for less than a year, are worse also or are better than they were before. I don't think we can always keep pushing against the health system, a magnificent health system. But, as I say, we're not stopped, we keep working. And, of course, we're going to have to keep thinking all the time about people, citizens in Galicia, with more prevention, more diagnosis, more early treatments, more outpatient treatments and boosting the home; more communication with citizens, that citizens have much more rights but also responsibility for the sustainability of the system. A common goal that goes within the 2020 Strategy of the Council is to improve the health of citizens, and that is the horizon we must always be clear about. We want to move forward towards a more proactive primary care model, where the reference professional of each patient has the tools needed to monitor chronic patients from home. It is necessary to have primary care closer to citizenship, which is able to solve — as you have done all these years — a large percentage of pathology, but also to carry out an active follow-up that avoids deregulations and worsenings that occur in chronic and fragile patients. One of the objectives of this legislation is to make more visible the work of health centres within the Community; the development of Community intervention programmes from primary care; the implementation of actions that will improve the health of citizens, thereby involving the health system with educational, residential or third sector centres. We want primary care open to society. The set of the health system and primary care face known challenges: chronicity, aging, geographic dispersion, for those we need to be resolute, with appropriate diagnostic and therapeutic capacity, and that new technologies have been incorporated and evolved since this year. [[Applause]] We will continue to work with professionals and patients to advance the improvement of the system, its organization and its functioning. New situations require new answers, and we have to be willing to look for them, find them, and apply them because we are aware that much remains to be done and we have illusions and ideas to do so. We will continue to work with the illusion and the goal of making a better system for our children, for our elders, reviewing all the actions launched in a critical spirit, in order to strengthen the correctness and rethink everything that is likely to improve. I want to recognize from here the implication that professionals and patients always show, especially when it comes to bringing in efforts to preserve and improve this great health system that we all build and of what we feel very proud of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u77	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 6:00 p.m., four in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u78	Good afternoon. We resumed the session with item 3 on the agenda. G.P. motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and D. Luis Villares Naveira, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the data relating to child poverty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u79	Two amendments have been tabled, one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the other from the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u80	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u81	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, after this dessert. We will not, of course, enter today's appraisal of the increase in data on inequality, the risk of poverty in our country. We're not going to do it because it's already been exposed enough in the interpellation and also because we consider it not to say, to analyze, whether the risk of poverty rises or decreases by a few tenths. What we are talking about is that inequality and social exclusion are consolidated in broad layers of society and that children are the social sector most affected by the increase in poverty, as we have seen in the debate on the question that gives rise to this motion. So unemployment and labour poverty have further affected homes that are already the poorest, and this has had a brutal impact on childhood vulnerability, as we have seen. We also said in the whole past from En Marea, in the debate of this appeal to the Government, that this panorama of tremendous inequality that left the crisis was a factor of political and institutional changes which, as we saw this weekend, have not yet ended. Political and social developments ratify us in this thesis. So, despite the fact that precariousness is established, even though we're seeing the lack of expectations grow, that there's a certain resignation in part of society, there's also a push for change. So, from En Marea, we think that this social majority that has a parliamentary expression of the majority in the General Courts, we are in favour of a political agreement for a government that stops all these harmful policies. And our motion goes this way. Our motion is a program of minimums that goes against social inequality and that cuts the aggressive policies that have led since 2010 to unprecedented political involution, which have also created an increase in the risk rate of unprecedented child poverty in the democratic period. And we appeal to a great political agreement for these causes. So the motion that we present does not, therefore, remain in timely and palliative measures. I was telling you in the interlocution that we would surely find ourselves in specific matters, and I am sure that some specific questions of this motion can support them. But we think that the causes of child poverty, the increase in the risk of vulnerability of all people, especially children, are not only being attacked with timely measures but also going to the root of problems, or, at least, reaching a basic political agreement on basic lines to stop the most harmful policies that were implemented during the crisis. We also said that in social inequality, levels were already maintained during times of economic growth, which since 2010 have exploded at alarming levels, making both children and women particularly vulnerable. With regard to this particular issue, of the increase in the risk rate of child poverty in the years of the crisis, the first to shorten a situation is not to deny it. We said that in 2014 the first reaction of the Government was to qualify as alarmers the alerts that launched different associations, different groupings and the political opposition itself. And finally in 2014 this reality was recognized. In a 2014 study, Junta recognized that there were children and children in homes with severe lack of material, specifically 18,000, according to a report by the Directorate-General of the Family. And he did a study on child poverty in Galicia that we — precisely because we say that the first to act against a situation is not to deny it — propose to update. That's one of the points of our motion. This study stated something that is common to the whole of southern Europe: that during the crisis increased child poverty. It is common to the whole of southern Europe, but it said that in the Spanish State, in our context, it is something unprecedented, it is alarming the progress it has achieved, there is no precedent in the democratic period. I also said that report that the risk of child poverty is higher in urban areas. There's great territorial variability, but we can identify a slightly higher level of income in the North Wales area than in the South, and also that homes with minors are at greater risk of social exclusion. This is a feature shared with the whole of southern Europe, but here, in our context, the global increase in the risk of poverty in this kind of home, between 2007 and 2009, in the early years of the crisis, rises to 63%. So the risk of poverty increases when you have a smaller one at home. One parenthood — which we always call it monomarnetality — is 80% of these families. They are families that are very vulnerable — half of these families are at risk of social exclusion — as well as many families. Finally, what all these conclusions of the report bring to us, what the Board's own report recognizes, is that the lack of employment or its precariousness, poverty and job insecurity, is a fundamental factor in the risk rate of child poverty. Therefore, the measures we propose — and I say they are not timely measures — are structural change measures — are to change the precariousness of the Italian labour market and to act directly against the causes of child poverty. Data on European Union salaries today: Galicia, average wage, EUR 1.447 per month; 25.2% less than the European Union and 11.5% less than the Spanish state. That's why we propose, and we will not stop doing so, measures to increase the wages of the Germans and reduce the precariousness of work in our country. Even if they do not support this motion, they will have the opportunity to support non-law proposals in which we propose, for example, a strategy against labour poverty in Galicia. We also propose that it be coordinated between the functions of Social Policy and Employment, not sufficiently coordinated. We need again, and I apologize for the insistence, that the regulatory decree of this Act of Social Inclusion, which regulates the transition to employment, which increases the Counties of Risk, should be published. Because acting on Risk is to act directly against child poverty. Almost half of Risga's perceived families have fewer positions. We went back to the point we pointed out: having a minor person in the family is a risk of vulnerability. Families who also suffer from greater vulnerability to poverty are those who have a rental housing. Because they're the ones who suffer most from child poverty. It must be pointed out in this respect that housing is the biggest cost of poverty, it is the most cost in which families can fall into poverty. He pointed out in a recent article, Antón Costas, which, given the drop in income available to families since 2008, especially in poor homes -- that this has happened like this, the crisis was worse in families with lower incomes, especially in poor homes -- when it is now beginning to increase the price of homes and renters, what will cause the income that will remain for families, after the house spent, will be reduced. And we're going to see a further increase in poverty and a reduction in the already reduced rate of emancipation of youth. We're talking about 80% of the youth, considered to be under the age of 33 — the age I am, living with their parents or mothers in Galicia. Clearly, we are not in a situation that allows young people to have a project of life, a project of the future. We must therefore act in the area of housing, increase the public housing park and intervene in the rental market. In this motion we propose an urgent measure, which is to ensure that no family with minors in charge can be evicted without alternative housing, but we must act more deeply in the housing market. We also pointed to adolescence as an age group vulnerable to poverty, something that also influences that palliative measures that have been taking place with regard to child poverty have only reached childhood itself and not adolescence. It was not taken into account that the age range with the highest risk of poverty in Galicia is what goes from 16 to 24 years. That's why we call for a specific plan, so we also call for the involvement of young people and children in the policies that affect them, and that's why we call for that Greek council of youth and childhood, that to involve young people and children in public policies. Because not only are they the future—when we talk about children and children, we think of them as the future, such as those who will continue our journey—they are subject to rights and have the right to apply their policies, they have the right to know their social reality and — even the children who are not in this vulnerable situation — they have the right to know how the rest of society and their friends are. Well, at Risk I said before the decree was issued, but we also propose measures to connect employment services so that social inclusion and transition to employment are really possible. It was recently approved again the order of aid for the municipalities for hiring people who charge for a Risk, and again, despite what we told them from En Marea, instead of hiring at least one year, to allow then a contribution pension, seven months are dealt with. I didn't say it in that question debate, but it's seven months, which is exactly the right thing to lose a risk after six months of hiring. We don't think it's more than a joke, or something infamous, with these people. Well, finally, to finish, we also put measures that go against the political involution that led to the attack on public services during the crisis. And that is why we propose not only to recover public spending but also to raise spending on family and childhood functions to, at least, the average level of the EU, of the 15 most developed countries, as well as to bet on professionalization and increased resources and specialized social services, and particularly on the area of minors, because its management is systematically derived, its programmes are systematically derived from doing so through social entities. We want totally decent public services, fully professionalized, and that's why there's a series of our actions in this motion. It also occurs with teaching, with public education. Another of the attacks received by the revolutionary policies caused by this crisis — not caused by the crisis, but by the policies that were decided by the powers for this crisis — was against public education. And that is why we consider this area of investment to be fundamental to ensuring equal opportunities. Finally, our actions can surely achieve a broad consensus, some of them, but we consider them as a whole because we are not going to change policies of alms by policies of social justice. We believe in social justice and this is one of our minimum programs to achieve it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u82	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u83	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me begin by conveying all the Socialist Group's support to all those people who have been in the morning in Ourense for the sake of our rural environment, in favour of worthy aid against the frosts that took place three weeks ago. Our gratitude for them. [[Applause]] Even if my partner, Mr. Quiroga tomorrow, will develop an initiative in this sense, we felt it was important to make a mention of them today. Mrs Vázquez Verao said that the important thing in the face of the problems is first to recognize them. On the role — or on the computer, as you would like to see — it seems that today the Government of Spain, and specifically the National Institute of Statistics, if you recognize it. I read a press release published today: "At 30.9 percent of the homes they would have liked to use childcare facilities. The main reason they didn't do more than half of them was that they had no resources to do it.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh This, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, although they don't want to see it, is the reality that's out there. If we continue to sink into this data, we see that, by kind of home, the homes that are formed by an adult and at least one child or child were those that had the greatest needs not covered. Just what a chance!, an initiative brought by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in the former plenary, of monomantal families was trampled — as usual — by the People's Party with its votes against; a collective who needs help and who needs urgent action before what the Government of Galicia refuses to act. Well, going to En Marea's initiative, the first thing we want to say is that it seems that point 1 is kind of a summary of what it's meant to be not knowing if an electoral program, but rather a cross-sectional shock plan, which we support in almost all of its points, as we have shown throughout this legislation by presenting concrete initiatives on each subject. The problem is not only that children and children who are suffering from poverty are now, being rigorous, poor in the strict sense, that is, they don't have much time to make all the meals of the day. There is one factor that socialists consider even more important and that includes a larger number of children, which is social exclusion. It's those boys and girls who can't do things that up until recently were as normal as paying for an end-of-the-course tour or being able to enjoy extra-school activities. These extra seeming issues are also very important for the development of our children. It is not just a question of the crisis, it is also a question of policies that have been perpetuated, of a political, economic and social model that has been established in this country and that we consider it to be unfair. That leads Spain to be the second country where inequality has increased the most in recent years. I mean, we went from being the second in 2012 to being the first right now, and I'm saying it with Eurostat data, not with data from the Socialist Party. This is propitiated in many cases by the precariousness of work; i.e., gentlemen, it works less hours and with less pay, which is leading to a poverty of minors. And we run the risk, in addition, that they are poor at present and that poverty is transmitted from generation to generation, chronicizing this inequality. And for that, we must act urgently. As far as our amendment is concerned — and I am already going because time is quite scarce for the long term that is the initiative — there are two fundamental points of the twenty-four that I think we cannot accept as drafted. One of them is that referred to in Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution. It is an article concerning the Socialist Party's respect for that decision which was launched at that time by the socialist government of Mr Zapatero, an initiative at a time of extraordinary economic complexity. And while we respect that initiative, what we want to do from now on is, as authors of that reform, to have the responsibility to reform again and to focus on the need for reform to incorporate the appropriate and sufficient level of funding for social services, which we believe is essential. There's also a point where we can't agree to 100 percent, which is the school dining room. We do not want to get into the management issue right now, because we believe it must be a debate that we should deal with more often on another occasion. But if we believe that it is necessary and essential that there be the number of squares sufficient for parents and mothers to be able to take their children to this service, which is so important for all citizenship but especially for those children who are going through special circumstances of difficulty in their homes. With which, Mrs Vázquez Verao, our amendment, as you can verify, is to retouch, not to dynamize, as we have seen about this initiative. I hope we can agree on that. And nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs Vázquez Verao, from the People's Parliamentary Group, what we want is to bring our work to this common front against child exclusion and poverty. In the past full was the councillor, in response to an interpellation presented by his group, which explained the measures being put in place by the Council of Galicia. And today, of course, it won't be our group who comes here to dynamize an initiative of their group to try to fight child poverty. We are going to try to add efforts to this common front to fight poverty and social exclusion. They have done so since Galician union with the councils and social entities, and in this Galician Parliament on many occasions we have tried to do so, an agreement from all groups of this House. But you will understand that, in order to reach an agreement, it is not absolutely essential for a group of this House — the majority group — to agree to a hundred percent with this 25-point initiative that your group is presenting today. But if we advance it, whether our amendment is accepted or not - we hope it will be accepted, or at least invite us to negotiate with you - we will ask for a point vote and we will vote in favour of points 2, 15 and 18 (a) and point 5 (b) In addition, our group is proposing an amendment to make certain concretions to points 6, 11, 14 and 16 (a) - we are in a position to agree with you a text that has been negotiated - and to point 4 (b) With regard to some of the proposals you make in your initiative and which we, of course, could not support because we do not share any of them is the issue of that plan of shock against child poverty that you are asking for in this initiative. Especially because the Galician Union is working — as I said before — with the municipalities and social entities in the development of the Galician Social Inclusion Strategy and the new Galician Social Agenda. We're talking about they're working together together together, councils and social entities to fight child poverty in Galicia. In particular, in 2017, EUR 107 million was allocated to care for people at risk of social exclusion in Galicia. This means an increase of 9 million euros in relation to the year 2016 and an increase of 73 million euros in relation to the year 2009. And you're also asking to raise the risk allocation. We here wanted to make it clear that the risk accounts are defined in the Galician Social Inclusion Act, that the entry into force of the new tranches will raise the amounts that the beneficiaries receive and that, in addition, this year, 57.5 million euros are allocated to Risk. We're talking about a huge increase of 5 million euros in relation to 2016 and 65 million euros more than in 2009. And you ask for a transition from Risk to that basic income of citizenship. We are not going to share this because, well, we have examples in Galicia, as can be the basic income of the City Council of the Crown, and we do not share the successes that could be expected of that income and the actual results that it is actually giving. And, of course, there are measures already in place concerning housing — what you are talking about on your initiative — we have the Reconduit Programme for families at risk of mortgage execution of their usual housing. The Royal Programme, the social housing bonus program, the empty housing program... therefore there are many measures relating to housing. With regard to Community services budgets, it must be said that under the agreed plan, the budget for Community social services staff has increased by 22.40%, specifically by 2016; that there are 60 new technical staff jobs which will continue to increase in 2017; that there is already a strategy for social inclusion of the Roma population 2014-2020 which provides for specific actions aimed at achieving full social inclusion — something you also demand in your initiative. And in addition, I would like to end by informing you that in 2017 — as you well know — budgets allocate EUR 123 million to childhood and adolescence, EUR 10 million more than in 2016 and 126% more than in 2009. In addition, the bonus has been extended to care and the card has been extended to welcome. We therefore hope that, in that offer that you make a deal and make a common front in this Parliament today against poverty, social exclusion and child poverty, we can reach an agreement with you on the basis of our amendment. Because only with the sum of everyone's effort will we be able to put an end to social exclusion, and to the development of comprehensive policies, such as those we have just explained, that allow to alleviate the effects of exclusion and poverty and attack the causes that cause it. So we hope we can reach an agreement. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u87	Good afternoon. The BNG will also support this initiative, and not so much by the creation of each of its many points, because, indeed, it can be interpreted almost as an electoral programme, a government programme, and it addresses many questions, issues of concern, namely, together the situation of poverty, vulnerability, exclusion, social aspects, education, health, because poverty is transversal in itself. In short, it speaks of this initiative of inequality, lack of equity, of the most vulnerable sectors and of the structural situation. I am going to make a reference to how the People's Party Member has finished this intervention, to that approach that it is a responsibility of all and of all to fight poverty, to that we are making efforts, as if the situation of poverty was inevitable, as if it had occurred by spontaneity and those responsible are the people who suffer it, as if that situation was not the result of the measures taken from the different governments directly, or by the governments to the orders of whom it really bears power, legislative measures, measures of budget cuts and measures of exclusion. So, I, in that scenario that we are all at the same, because, of course, I won't match. Because there are responsible for the situation and those responsible for the situation must be pointed out. And the reality is that the policies of austerity, cutbacks, dictated by the powers that they really command -- we call it the International Monetary Fund, we call it Brussels, we call it "major power" -- and then applied by the governments of Raxoi in Spain or in Galicia because they boost an insulting concentration of wealth; a concentration of wealth aggravated by that government's submission to the dictates of power, who want us to install in the mantra that, for example, Galicia is not able to be in a different economic situation, in the development plan of our productive sectors, in the plan of generating wealth and quality employment so that the Galicians can work and live worthy of their work. And then, of course, there is data like that every time wealth is concentrated on less hands and that Galicia is the fifth richest community in Spain. I mean, this shows that we are not faced with an inevitable issue but that we are faced with a system and some mechanisms that do it is that there is concentration of wealth and then there is a situation of exclusion from most. Over the past few years, more than 90 percent of the population has been looted by reducing wages, pensions, social benefits, health care or education for children and children. Meanwhile, the public resources have been to rescue the banks, and none of those billions who have been indebted to the different governments have been to save people in a situation of exclusion, in a situation of vulnerability, but all that indebtedness has been to save those who already have it all. And in the BNG we believe that, in fact, we have to go back to that situation, that it is possible to turn it around. It is a matter of political will and, of course, of changing priorities. Because we are faced with widespread poverty as the consolidation of a structural problem. Too many people, individually or in family units, do not cover their basic needs: unemployed people, people who have exhausted the right to benefits, people who are in a situation of work precariousness, temporaryity, low wages... there is a significant percentage of the population that depends on public contributions, on the family environment or on the proximity of NGOs, poor people, impoverished people, with material deficiencies, with psychosocial disorders and pathologies... that is, situations in many hidden cases, because there is also a situation of shame, that many of these people don't want to know what the situation is. Because if it wasn't, that visibility of reality had to be much more obvious. And that's why, of course, we support this initiative by what I said at first, because, even though it's very cross-sectional and very broad, we think that what it does is to visualize the situation of poverty, put it on schedule, which is so important. Because they need immediate solutions to take care of immediately, but they're also needed structural solutions, you need to guarantee a more just system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u89	...redistribution of wealth, an escape from the crisis that is not what it is currently being, an escape from the crisis that is increasingly unequal where those who have more are still catching up and where those who have less are still sharing less amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Motion author group. Mrs. Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u91	Well, I particularly like — I don't know which group it was, or if there were several — that they understood this initiative as a common front against social exclusion. I think at least the People's Party understood it that way. But what's going on? That we, the common front against social exclusion, understand it from social justice, not only with time-consuming measures. So in that sense, we present the measures as a set. We've also talked about the electoral program, the government program. It's just that it's a minimum programme, it's a minimum programme that we understand it's necessary to be able to tackle this situation. Just by approving some of the measures, you can, yes, alleviate the situation of some people. That's why we don't look down on him, and that's why we'll value the vote by points, especially if you're committed to getting that decree ahead of you, which told me they'd support, that point, to get that decree that regulates the Act of Social Inclusion. Because I have here, for example -- I could bring many more examples -- a letter that is sent from the Ombudsman of the People to the Barbanza Defense Platform, which already in 2014 complained that the Board did not develop that law. For in 2016 they continue to indicate to you from the General Directorate of Social Inclusion that a first draft has already been prepared, which is in the process of analysis. We've been in the process of analysis for years, if you're committed to extracting that decree, you've got a month left to be able to pass what comes from this motion, because it's this session. We will value the vote by points, at least at this point. But we understand all these initiatives as a program, as a whole, very well defined it both groups, that of the BNG and that of the PSdEG, to whom we appreciate the support for this initiative even though surely, if we go down to break down each of the points, they would have nuances. That is why we are also prepared to deal with the two amendments with the Socialist Party, although the first is already telling them that we will certainly not accept them — we may perhaps reach a point — and the second is to trade them. Because we, although we do not respect what was done in 2010 and do not agree with the political change that has taken place, we believe that at this moment it is our responsibility — and, of course, from En Marea, we are going to put all the meat in the roaster for that — to have a minimal program to make a social rescue, to have a minimal program, which means to transfer that social majority that we believe there is, and this is evidenced in the General Courts, with a parliamentary majority that would allow a government of progress that, at least, would stop the policies that are most damaging to citizenship. And so we present this second part of the initiative. Because it has a paragraph referring to the policies that can be promoted since the Council of Galicia and the other one in which we urge the Government of Spain, in which, among other matters, it is, of course, asked to repeal the labour reform of 2012, which was one of the main factors in the precariousization of our labour market and which is one of the fundamental factors of vulnerability and the risk of poverty in children. Therefore, minimum measures, social rescue. Let's agree, it's possible. Because In Marea won't stay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u92	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Will they need a time for the transaction? [[Pause.]] They need a time for the transaction, I imagine, because the thing seems a little complex. There's 19 points. [[Pause.]] We can do something if it seems to them. Maybe we can vote for her tomorrow. Do you think we'd better vote for her tomorrow? Do you all agree that we vote for this motion tomorrow? Do you agree with the spokespersons? Shall we vote for this motion tomorrow with the LNP? You'll tell me if we can do it today or if we leave it tomorrow. For tomorrow? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Okay, thanks. [[Affirmation.]] So we are now debating the non-law proposals. We started with the Popular Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms. Incarnation Amigo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and four other Members, on the demand by the Greek Government for the improvement and clarification of the regulation of health advertising, concerning centres, establishments, goods and services, to avoid misleading advertisements
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u93	Amendments have been tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u94	To formulate the non-law proposition, you have the floor to Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u95	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Today we bring to this plenary session a subject of general interest in which I hope for the agreement and support of all parliamentary groups. I want to begin by quoting Article 37.1 of Chapter IX of the Code of Medical Dentology, 1990. This provision: "Advertising must be objective and true, it cannot raise false hopes or propagate unfounded concepts." In principle, the border between information and advertising is quite clear. In practice, however, these are two concepts that tend to be confused and often camouflaged. Quoting Martín García, he says that "objectivity is characteristic of information, while suggestion, trendiness and subjectivity are the sound of advertising." The most precious good that human beings have is health, one aspect of our life that we often underestimate. We don't realize how important it is until we lose it, either ourselves or someone close to us. Only then are we aware of the vital importance of caring for and protecting everything about our health. In recent decades, companies and professionals have been investing in advertising campaigns in order to move consumers and users to choose and consume their products or services, in an area where competition abounds and grows every day. We all agree that advertising is a valuable source of consumer information, help you make a more balanced decision about that product or service that best suits your needs. Today medicine is practised very differently than a few years ago, mainly in the field of private medicine. In the classical medical consultations that we were used to, the usual thing was that the professional attended to in his home, and the relationship was direct, doctor-patient. The recruitment and loyalty of the patient-client depended on the most conventional advertising, i.e., the ear-mouth, the experience itself and the subsequent confidence. Although this type of relationship has not disappeared, it is increasingly common to find companies or companies that offer health services to individuals on the market. These health companies are often made up of non-sanitary personnel. Once constituted, they hire health professionals who create an offer that brings their target audience through advertising. Often the purpose of these companies is not so much based on providing the best medical care but on receiving the best financial benefits and attracting more customers. From this perspective, by analysing the user of a health service in a broad sense as a consumer, we must not forget that public authorities must deploy a protective activity of the rights of consumers and users, primarily in the field of goods or services of common use or consumption, and among them are medicines, health products and health services themselves, such as dentists, doctors, nursing services, physiology, hospital services, pharmacists or veterinarians, among others. Advertising in the field of health also requires that consumers not only be involved in the economic interests of consumers but also their right to health, a special attention by the public authorities. If the principle of truth constitutes one of the bases of the right to advertising, when referring to medical products or services this requirement must be taken to its extreme. In a society that looks forward to medical news announcing almost magical formulas in cure and even disease prevention, and which tends to blindly believe in them, the protection of public authorities must be accentuated from the publicity stage. We must protect the consumer and the user with standards that pursue misleading advertising, which manifests itself in this area as one of the main risks to the health of citizens. In the health sector, the information value of advertising should be enhanced to the detriment of suggestion or persuasion. In many health services or activities announcements it calls directly to human feelings to convince the recruitment, without complete and true information about its usefulness or application, thus playing with people's health and, in many cases, endangering their lives. The impact that can have today, for example, a written press page, a television image or a radio ad overflows the imaginable, off the edge of Internet access or social networks, where scams abound in the form of pages and profiles oriented to capture the user with solution for any kind of clinical disorder, from a magical growth to such news as we have sadly known a few weeks ago about a false oncoholic treatment provided from a university in our country. And I don't want to go by without making a special mention of certain "homeopathic" or "natural" therapies. I am a rheumatologist of profession and, of course, I have seen many cases of patients with autoimmune diseases who have treatment but who are chronic diseases and where sometimes therapies are aggressive and are not exempt from secondary risks. And patients, in the face of despair and the lack of acceptance of chronicity, are given on occasion to natural medicine, where they are offered all kinds of miracles — of course, without apparent side effects — and, of course, healing. The only thing this patient gets is the delay in starting the appropriate treatment, which in the case of these pathologies is vital to the evolution and behavior of the disease. I want to remember that cicuta is a plant and it's natural, but it kills. Do we have advertising regulations? Yes, Community legislation on unfair commercial practices, by means of state legislation — and I am not going to appoint all the state regulations we have — and of course, at the autonomous level we have a decree of nearly 20 years ago that health advertising is regulated in our autonomous community. Still, with all this legislation, both European and state-owned, something is failing. And there are conflicting extremes that should be analysed before a publicity campaign is authorized. The transparency and veracity of information and health advertising are essential, and of course this is regulated in Royal Decree 1907/96 in Article 7(1). The eradication of misleading acts in health advertising must be central to any legislation. It is also collected in Law 29/2009. There are also regulations on the use of famous people in health advertising. Health advertising should count in each case on the necessary information in the supply, all the necessary information. It is important to identify the health care staff that provides the service, as is the fundamental requirement of prior administrative authorisation of any kind of advertising that is made in this regard, in order to achieve a thorough compliance with the legislation. And, of course, it is essential to have the support of professional schools. Finally, we have laws, we have decrees on advertising and commercial promotion of products, activities and services, and its object is to regulate these situations. But we think that, for the transformation and promotion of advertising, in recent decades this specific regulation on the advertising of health facilities, institutions and services needs to be developed, and also clearly delineating the competences of the Central Government and the Self-Government. In all the above, since the Popular Parliamentary Group we have tabled the following non-legislative proposal: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to address the Government of Spain to improve and clarify the regulation of health advertising in relation to centres, establishments, goods and services to avoid misleading advertisements, limiting especially everything that may constitute a risk to health and counting for this with professional schools." That's all for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u97	The concern about the situation of misleading advertising, of intrusion, of bad practices in directly professional activities, directly health or pseudo-sanitary activities is evident in many collectives. Some of them have contacted the parliamentary groups here, in this Parliament, to move their concern about it: physiotherapists, podologists, dentists... They are some of the professionals and professionals who have contacted us to, among other claims, move this situation; a situation that has consequences for the professionals themselves, see how they offer products that do not correspond immediately to the offer, or to professionals who do not have the skills or training to perform those practices that they offer. So it has implications for professionals in terms of unfair competition and in terms of interference, intrusion, but also and basically for the population receiving those services, when one of the fundamental objectives has to be to protect the population of this kind of practice. It is relatively easy to find on the websites pseudo-scientific, unaccredited, in most cases even dangerous, hidden behind misleading advertising, of double meaning, with which, as I said before, the safeguard of the health and safety of patients and citizens remains enquired. They worry that they're also using false therapies, miracle products, deceptive techniques and that they don't have a scientific substrate, experienced, and proven or recognized effectiveness. We see how many of these issues have been proliferating lately, in many cases with a permissiveness even I could come to say that it's overwhelming. These pseudosciences, miracle products, false therapies and intrusion, even low, in some cases, aspects of the mystery medium, even sects, must, from our point of view, be combated. With which, we agree that this issue must be a matter of concern and occupation, but, as on other occasions, we will no longer agree with the approach given by the People's Party in presenting this initiative here; a People's Party approach where the Spanish Government demands that it take action and clarify the issue of misleading advertisements. Article 27 of the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia — insufficient, anemic status and which does not respond to the needs of our country, but there are some things that it envisages — says that it is up to the Autonomous Community of Wales to compete solely with advertising, beyond the issues that the Government of the State can develop. With which, of course, you can't throw balloons out and say that it's the Government of Madrid who takes action in this regard. We have competences in Galicia and the BNG presents an initiative precisely in this direction, in the direction that this Parliament urges the Galician Union to improve and clarify the regulation of health advertising in relation to centres, establishments, goods, services, as indicated by the People's Party initiative, since the Statute provides that it has competence in the field of health. And at the same time, all the necessary actions are carried out to avoid intrusion of work in professions that may directly or indirectly have consequences for health, in particular performing the review and inspection work to attempt the exercise of health services without the existence of proper qualification or vocational training through the corresponding qualification, and do not economically support any activity that does not meet these requirements. We make this request because we were also brought in, for example, by the College of Physiotherapy, a complaint from a center announcing pseudoscience activities, where it has been shown that the people in front of us have no training, qualifications, to perform this function...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u99	...—end—which was the object of economic support by the Igape and which even the Economic Councillor enthusiastically praised this action of entrepreneurship. We believe that, we believe not, it is an obligation of the Government and the Government of Greece to fight against these practices and, of course, not only to fight, but not to support those who fail to comply with legality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u101	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I'm not getting out of here today. The Nobel Prize, Daniel Kahneman, spoke of overconfidence and said that it often happens because we are little aware of the information we have about reality, and that we always believe we know more than we know. Actually, Kahneman probably didn't specifically talk about misleading advertising, but it's quite appropriate to the case because he probably has that effect of believing that we always know a lot and that we are able to judge a lot the advertising we receive, when it isn't, and probably that's why many times deceptions and situations like those that are intended to be described. In any case, by reading the initiative, you can come here and say that you agree and that's enough, because it doesn't give much more of the debate. The question is, what does one agree with? So if one is going to read the initiative, the resolution: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to address the Government of Spain to improve and clarify the regulation of advertising," says: "Better than, where?, how?, by means of what tools?, by what measures? What's to improve, all of it, part of it? Addressing the Government of Spain to improve and clarify... Regularly misleading advertising is already in Law 14/1986, which speaks of the control of advertising and commercial propaganda to meet the criteria of truth. In addition to this initiative, the Royal Decree 1907 of 1996, which states in Article 1.2: "Professional schools in the field of their competences may participate and collaborate in the fulfilment of that established in this Royal Decree." So all that comes here at this initiative is legislation that has twenty, thirty or almost thirty-five years in force. What needs to be improved? Because something might have to be improved, surely, but what, like, because I take an initiative to say that it has to be improved and not to say that or how it is a bit complicated. What's going on? What are you asking for? Of course, you've been facing lately... I know that Mr. Voicer, Mr. Núñez Centeno, before you didn't like to quote him, but you create a history of initiatives recently in health care that... Mr. President... maybe we can change the name of the hospital again, pass the Navy's name to the coast, and then the Coast's name to the Navy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u102	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u103	If I'm used to it... No... thanks anyway, president; I thank you. [[Murmurs.]] But given this initiative... what's curious is that I didn't mention it, but you knew I was going for you. I didn't have a very quiet conscience with the initiative of the other day. That was good. In any case, initiatives to push what is done, initiatives to improve, but they don't say what, initiatives to change names... I'm waiting for the cost report of renaming, signaling, you know. Fighting the deceiver is good and it's good to fight advertising that announces some things and then does others... oh, if we apply it to governments! Oh, if we're all going through that deceptive publicity in the election campaigns! Oh! Anyway, it's not gonna happen that after... I'd like you to go to election campaigns and announce that you're going to change your name to a hospital... that's fine, uh! [[Applause]] Anyway, I'm still waiting. And that's why we are proposing an amendment to this initiative in which, in addition to asking the Government of Spain, the Union assumes certain competences it has and which it can exercise through the Galician Institute of Consumption and Competition. Through this body, we can basically guarantee, as we say in the amendment, certain citizens' rights and, if there are possible things to improve — that, to some extent, we believe that it is possible and it is true that this problem of misleading advertising in the health system has some issues that are certainly adjustable — even if it is only for the passage of time and the new real specialties and the pseudo-specialities or pseudo-sciences that are approaching — because they may not be regulated at the moment because they didn't even exist — they can now surely be incorporated. But since it is possible to do so, which is defined in particular, that these rights are guaranteed and that the Union will also do so, in addition to asking the Government of Spain — which is good — to do so through its own bodies: the Galician Institute of Consumer Affairs and Competence, as we say, and, if necessary, to give it budgetaryly, whether the situation requires measures to be a broad implementation of resources or whether major interventions are needed. In any case, we believe that the amendment does not contribute anything more than the fact that the Board undertakes to do the same thing as it is proposed in the initiative, in which we agree, but we will be willing to vote in favour if the amendment is accepted, because the only thing it asks is that, in addition to asking the Government of Spain, we should do it ourselves, because we have competences for this as autonomy; that is, in the field of advertising, we probably have a lot more. We therefore believe that the amendment complements, and, hoping that it can be accepted, we expect the position of the People's Party to decide on our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u104	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Good for all. What surprises us most at the En Marea Group is that through this initiative they try to argue something that has no justification. The truth is, reading it like this at first glance might even seem good to us, except when we're deep in the background of this initiative, which has no explanation or logic. They claim that 20 years ago Royal Decree 1907/1996 of 2 August was published; however, according to Galician PP, specific regulation on advertising of health facilities, establishments and services still needs development. And we must also clearly define the competences of the central government and the autonomous communities. As you've already pointed out, and therefore I'm not going to repeat, the Galician Autonomy Statute already clearly collects that we have competence in this; that's yes, you put a mill that can serve as an excuse not to effectively legislate on this matter. But as it is well known, from En Marea we do not agree with these limitations traps to our self-government, which must be reinforced, not limited, and which we even aspire to increase. In view of the fact that the President of the Union, Mr Feijóo, always defines himself as a militant of Galicia, with speeches and major statements, and you too, for it would be good if they started to practice such militancy without excuse in these matters and in many other matters, and more in such a sensitive and sensitive area as is information on health issues. This GNP we think is really a smoke curtain, a smoke curtain not to get wet. Let us be amazed that they propose that the Government of Spain be one who unilaterally clarifys the regulation of Welsh health advertising, leaving Galicia without direct influence on this, with this very serious issue, as you yourselves have just explained. There are many Greeks and Greeks who don't want to delegate these issues, nor do we agree on the lack of commitment and courage in carrying out our powers by the Government of the Union. In fact, we count on our own rule, which regulates health advertising in Galicia, Decree 97/1998, a rule which, by the way, is from the Government of Mr Fraga and which I imagine that the person who outlined this initiative will know, especially by highlighting Article 5, which, because of a lack of time, I will not quote. If the competences of state legislation are not clear, as you say, they should strengthen and strengthen standards such as this to advance in self-government and to continue to strengthen the laws of Greece to regulate health advertising in Galicia and avoid scams, for example, as they did in places like Asturias, Murcia or Aragon; with which, we would not be the first. We are also curious about the interest of the People's Party in regulating health advertising, which is not, however, proportional to its lack of interest and enthusiasm to regulate, for example, institutional advertising. For example, Mr. Feijóo has committed himself to promoting an institutional advertising law, a law he has never seen the light. Of course, they passed the law of transparency and good government, a law without budget resources that they cite but never execute, beyond talking about it in their propaganda apparatus. But go away! which is something that doesn't surprise us, and which doesn't mean that we're going to normalize, for example, corruption, as you do. Something I regret to see on that bench is many people — who I will not quote about them — who I consider to be individual honest people and who are the true isolated cases of the PP, a party charged 2.0. As a fellow man told us this weekend, speaking of the motion of censure to Rajoy presented by our confederal group, Pedro Honrubia: "Corruption is not an ethical issue, but the speech against corruption and its effects on people's daily lives if it has to be. Our people are worthy; they, indecent," — for you, of course — "are not representing us because they do not seem at all to us. It makes us feel ashamed of the image that our State gives to the world, its practices and its lack of empathy for the suffering of the common people. Corruption is not an ethical issue, but to cast them, the need to cast them, if it is." I quote this because at the beginning of last year his government, that of the defendant's party, and Rajoy — a subsidiary Feijóo — has allocated more than 341,000 euros to eight media without passing through the regulated, transparent procurement procedure and allowing free competition. From the leadership of TVG and Radio Glaga, from their absence and rigor and independence to better information and not to speak. Today there seems to have been a purge in their governing bodies. See how it's going, even though we're afraid it gives us, and but having the municipal elections ahead. We already know that they are experts in [...] [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] What's relevant is that we want there to be no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u106	That expression is not correct...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u107	Well, apparently.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u108	No, no, not at all. That expression is not correct. Fortunately, this is a democratic system that has already been validated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u109	Well, apparently in the campaign...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u110	No, no, that expression is not correct, Mrs. Santos; therefore, it is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u111	The relevant — and I'll finish —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u112	Yes, it's over now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u113	...is that we want there to be no advertising or misleading information in any matter, in none!, that wet and make use of their competences, that we comply with laws, laws and ethical principles, that often are not regulated in parliaments but that they do not cease to exist in citizenship and that they are of consensus in the majority of society. We cannot assume once again the lack of functions of the People's Party of Galicia passing the ball to the central government with this initiative, which contains more professional and with groups of people affected. We're wondering what interest they have in this not to legislate and execute their competition. Now, in a demonstration of our goodwill and that we are interested in this question... yes, yes, because we are also preparing initiatives on this... we are asking for the following amendment... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Can you please have your group shut up?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u114	Yes, yes. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u115	...amendment... — I understand that there is pain in the situation — since for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea the text of the resolution should be replaced by the following: The Greek Parliament urges the Council of Galicia and the Central Government to clarify and improve the regulation of health advertising, including professional, trade union and collective schools of the people concerned.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u117	If this substitution occurs, we will support it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u118	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u119	I thank all the groups for their interest in this initiative and for the approaches they made in the form of an amendment. I'm telling you, they're going to get you a compromise proposal because I think, in terms of health, we have to go hand in hand; it's the only way to move forward. With regard to the Lords of the Tide of Podemos, I ask them to speak seriously if you want us to take them seriously. [[Applause]] Mr. Torrado, speaking of advertising, I recommend this misleading publicity of his political group in which they asked for the vote and said that we would charge them for going to the doctor: a 67-euro consultation, or an ultrasound. He's here, I refer to the facts, and advertising is here. [[Murmurs.]] I'll go on. Of course, since the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u120	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u121	...we are very proud of the health we have.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u122	Quiet. I know that poster well. Don't plan again. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u123	The economic efforts and the blouse that the Government of Greece has made over the past few years in health policy have contributed to the fact that in Galicia today we have a first-order public health, prepared to face the challenges of the 21st century, with a future planning to which both its human and technical resources support. During the years of economic crisis, Galicia has not spared a single euro to improve health, building and modernizing hospitals and health centres throughout the territory, providing them with the best and most modern technology and equipment, and increasing the portfolio of services in all health areas. In health you can't stop, there are more and more improved technologies, more and better therapies, and governments can never conform to achievements, they have to be ambitious and always at the forefront of knowledge, research and technology. All this the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo knew how to see and put it into practice during his term of office, and so Galicia looks at it with envy from other autonomous communities for good management that has been practiced in recent years. Achievements in new or renewed hospitals and health centres in technological equipment, reduced waiting lists, surgical performance or new patient rights make the speech of some who want to damage public health unsustainable. From the PP we have shown that we believe in public health, but we also believe that private health is a positive element, whenever, as we propose today, it acts within regulated limits. We're in a free society. The citizen can choose between excellent public health and, if this is his decision, he can also opt for services from private health companies, and he can also opt for all kinds of products. Our mission cannot be limited; we can never limit the freedom of the citizen. Our mission is to ensure that those elections that make them properly informed of what are the real characteristics of the product or service you are acquiring and also of its potential risks. I repeat, the Government is looking out for citizens' interests and will protect them, regardless of what kind of health they choose. As I said in my first intervention, health is the most precious asset we have. It would be a pity we didn't protect her on such issues as what we bring to this House today, misleading advertising, and that unlearned people, without ethics or societies without principles made mellow in it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Tomorrow, or in the afternoon, I don't know, we'll get the deal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez and eight other Members, on the maintenance and promotion by the Galician Council of Aids in the Integral Rehabilitation Area of the Ways of Santiago, at least until 2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u125	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u126	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Antón Vilasánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u127	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. No one doubts today that the Way of Santiago is a fundamental resource for Galicia. It is a resource that has a double dimension: an external aspect as an image of Galicia, as a tourist, cultural and heritage resource; but also an internal part, of country, as a vertebrate element, as an integrator of territories and people, of the four provinces, of cores of all sizes, providing a balance between rural and urban, between the coast and the interior. The ground map of the Jacobean routes of our autonomous community affects 107 municipalities; that is, one third of Galician municipalities are affected by some of Santiago's roads. The Way of Santiago, in our opinion, has to be an economic and social resource for the peoples it passes through and, above all, for the neighborhood of the Way of Santiago, which must feel that public administrations also have the objective of improving their quality of life, while contributing to valuing the Jacobean route, its heritage and its surroundings. One of the measures, precisely for the preservation of the Way, its identity and its built landscape, is the declaration by the Integral Rehabilitation Area of the Ways of Santiago in Galicia. The so-called ARI of the Ways of Santiago in Galicia was declared by the Bilateral Housing Commission on December 17, 2010, within the framework of the 2009-2012 Housing and Rehabilitation Plan, signing an agreement for these purposes the Ministry of Government of Spain and the Environmental, Territory and Infrastructure Council at that time. This agreement extended the ARI of the French Way, previously declared, to the rest of Santiago's roads in Galicia, so it assumed a greater margin of staffing throughout the Greek territory. This extension does not imply the existence of seven ARIs, but it is a single ARI that understands all the routes, and this singularity assumes that it is the IGVS who directly manages the frontlines. The statement by the ARI of the Way of Santiago is a bet by the Government of Greece on the valorization of the Jacobean route, but above all it is a bet on the proximity of the parishes, towns and cities that form part of this important pilgrimage route, in order to offer them a specific line to help them preserve their most important heritage, the housing. In this way, the Administration wants to help the neighbors and neighbors in the task of preserving, maintaining and rehabilitating their homes, whether single-family or residential buildings. So the recipients of this aid, as you all know, can be unique owners of buildings or housing, as well as communities of owners or groups of housing owners communities. Territorially, there are 445 parishes in these 107 municipalities that can benefit from the assistance of this rehabilitation area. According to its own rules, in the rural municipalities, the aid applies throughout the parish by which the routes of the Way of Santiago flow, while in urban areas the rehabilitation area is limited to the path of the Way. In both cases, no houses that are already affected by another already declared ARI will be included, which, as you know, are 70 in total in Galicia. Since the declaration of the Santiago Road Rehabilitation Area has been signed three agreements with the Ministry of Development to fund actions in the rehabilitation area in 2011, 2012 and 2015. Thanks to these agreements, two aid calls were made: a first call in 2011, which rehabilitated 130 homes, with an investment of EUR 900,000, and a second call in 2016, by which 125 homes were rehabilitated, with an investment of around EUR 600,000, and another 235 are in progress for more than EUR 1.1 million. We know that the Infrastructure and Living Council has already prepared a third call, as the advisor explained in her appearance to this House last April. This call has an investment forecast of more than 2.1 million euros and is incarnated at the extension of the State Housing Plan 2013-2016, carried out by the Government for this year 2017. From our point of view, the Vivendas program on the Way has a greater potential than it has shown so far. So today we are bringing our interest to this House so that this program will last beyond the announced summons this year. We can't forget that the Jacobean route has an eminently rural character, since most of these 107 municipalities that make it up are small towns and villages. More than half of the municipalities have fewer than 6,000 inhabitants, so contributing to the rehabilitation of homes and helping their inhabitants is contributing to the establishment of the population in rural Galicia, a goal that must be shared by all political groups, in our opinion. In addition, the culture of rehabilitation must remain silent among the people of Greece as a way to maintain our heritage, but also as a sustainable measure to preserve the environment. Rehabilitation means not to be anchored in the past, but to use the rehabilitation to provide the park built of current advances and means to give greater comfort and efficiency to housing. The various protective actions envisaged in the Vivendas programme on the Road referenda this idea, as they are aimed at different aspects, but complementary to each other, such as those designed to ensure safety, health, the surrounding for water and moisture protection, energy saving, accessibility, and even the conditions for adaptation to the environment and the protection of cultural and landscape heritage. We therefore have a very important instrument to help improve the living conditions of the dwellings affected by the Santiago Way, and we must be able to make the greatest possible use of it. So we must also be able to raise awareness of the potential beneficiaries to use these aids and the administrations involved to make them agile in their processing, since the administrative procedure cannot be a brake on the effectiveness of the program. With these objectives and the challenge of the next Xacobeo 2021 we cannot miss the opportunity to continue improving Galicia through the Way of Santiago. And in all the above, the People's Group brings this non-legislative proposal to this House so that the Galician Parliament will urge the Galician Council to maintain and promote aid in the Santiago Road Rehabilitation Area in the coming years, and at least until 2020. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u129	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. At the end of this initiative, the truth is that since the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego we have a doubt, or rather a fear, and is whether, ladies of the People's Party, they're going to put the next three years, and then another year, until 2021, making these initiatives, that, with all due respect and accompanying something that has commented on the other thread like my colleague Luís Bará, they're "smoothing initiatives", because, look, we've been very constructive when you presented an initiative to the thread of the need for a card for pilgrims and pilgrims, and when we talk about this House of Cultural Itineraries, but it's a bit gray, because we now have an initiative, a proposal, that comes out of the government plans itself, in particular of the RehaVita Plan 2015-2020, almost literally. All right, but you won't deny that it's a little worrisome that the People's Party's Parliamentary Group itself has to urge the Government of the People's Party to do their homework, and that they have to remember it. And in this case it's even more hilarious, because it's something constantly repeated through press notes. Without going any further, I have here a press release of Tourism.gal from December 29, 2016, and not only does the content of this initiative appear, but it is more ambitious, and it is more ambitious because it also announces an advertising campaign to extend the culture of rehabilitation and to spread to these 107 municipalities to which you referred exhibitions and technical days for rehabilitation. So it's a pain that lowers the level of ambition. Moreover, in the initiative, there is only a lack of support for the ARIs on Santiago's Way, and no one else is talking. In fact, it is also surprising that they are limited to 2020. They are a little ambitious, they have that ambition they had to extend aid to private schools and transcend legislation; all in all, in this matter, we certainly found much more consensus — hopefully — in future alternative governments than in the case of private education. In any case, also in that press release, also in subsequent announcements, they spoke of 3.2 million already booked for 2017 and so on, but if we go to Plan RehaVita too, to its long version, not to its summary version, which is also available for its access, it literally says, "The Galego Institute of Vivenda and Only plans to target rehabilitation and urban renewal policies in the period 2015-2020 about 134 million, etc., of which 109 are intended for rehabilitation aid, etc.." And he makes specific mention of the Paths. Well, that's something they already know what they're going to do, and they still put the sale before the wound, they're not going to fulfill everything they say in their plan. Anyway, we understand that ARI is a necessary issue. They're especially important in territories like those that cover Santiago's Way, but we understand that Junta has to do something more. So we propose that we also amend a report in which we assess both the impact that this type of aid is having on society, and that improvements be established, both protocols and counting on aid, to increase that impact, because even though the RehaVita Plan refers to various data and other data, the fact is that there is no rigorous analysis of what was that impact by levels and economic profiles, by being first or second-life, by being in certain territories, by seeing whether it is unequal that impact or not or by seeing something as elementary and that it would be as interesting as the kind of work that is actually being helped to do. As you said, it contemplates various kinds of actions that can go from something as elementary as pipelines to something more ambitious as moving forward in energy efficiency, or being simply destined to comply with those taxes that by Patrimony are made outward of dwellings. So we think it would be interesting to evaluate this, because we, through our contact with the territory, have received many complaints about the suitability of management, the processing of deadlines and issues that discourage many potential users. We also understand that it is essential to deal with the increase in accounts, and that is also reflected in our proposal. This board is one of the most cuttings that has accumulated since 2009, and we understand that many of the aids do not sufficiently reach the necessary improvements that would have to be made through these aids. And all of this without getting into the political background that we should also talk about other outstanding issues on the Way in matters of help, such as, for example, that announcement that Mr. Feijóo made, when Mr. Méndez de Vigo came through these lands, that they would implement help to protect the BICs, that it would indeed be a novelty and that we hope that they will also be verified on some initiative, and that we exaggerate to the Union and the State something as elementary as that, or something as elementary as we have claimed and as recently announced some heritage associations, such as that they will denounce before UNESCO those aggressions on the Primitive Way and its dismantling through the streets and through the route of inoperation by the Galiza Union. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We are once again meeting with an initiative that this Parliament makes sense to us, and of course I say it ironically. There are three occasions during this legislation that announce the existence of this rehabilitation program and tell us about their intentions to continue to bet on it. [[Applause]] Let me addie to you, with all your affection, or text from that song two Celtas Cortos that says, "Tell me a story and you'll see how happy I am, I go to bed and I have beautiful dreams." This is the feeling that this and other initiatives bring here again and again, announcing what is nothing but a continuous policy. And the truth is, they like to tell us stories. The difference between you and us is that you, after counting them, go to bed and sleep quietly, but we and the citizens, don't. Why am I talking about stories? Because the whole story has a little message and a little fiction, and both things will not prove it to me, but the numbers that are behind this program and which already half confirmed Mrs. Anton. I have to repeat to them what I have already said in this House: we see no harm in the existence of the plans that are in force in the field of rehabilitation, not even this program of Living on the Road, but, let's be clear, the figures that precede them, the success of their execution over the past year, speak for themselves. We're talking about a rehabilitation policy that accounts for 0.024% of the total budget of the Galician Union. Last year they were destined, in accordance with the orders that accompanied the aid of the Vivendas programme on the Way, a total of 2,700,000 euros. Since the maximum amount of aid is EUR 11,000 per household, the number of beneficiaries eligible for the maximum subsidy is assumed to be a total of 245. We would like to know what the number of beneficiaries in the past year has actually been — half of what you have said — given that the degree of budget execution in rehabilitation of the total Council was 15.8%. How many Germans and Galicians have benefited from this program? You were pointing at about a hundred and peaks. Why does it matter? How much was actually executed? Since we don't have these data, let's talk about those we know. In the French Way, around 60% of the built residential property is major housing, about 48,000. The aid is designed only for principal housing; therefore, it leaves between 30% and 40% of the housing located within the Santiago Roads. So let's focus on the main dwellings. However, those who would opt for a maximum aid of EUR 11,000 are, as we said before, a total of 245, which means that for every route of the road there would be about 35 housing beneficiaries of the aid — let's say for each Way, in this case of Portuguese. Let's look at this and see the impact on miles. The sum of all traces of Santiago Roads gives a total of 1,100 kilometers. 35 dwellings would be talking about the rehabilitation of a stretch of about 175 meters linear, taking into account the averages of plots in urban estates with housing on both sides. The Silver Road has 194 kilometers of tracing; therefore, if the aid affects a stretch of about 175 meters linear in a plot of 194 kilometers, we're talking about an incidence of 0.09% of kilometres. Do you realize how ridiculous this figure is? Really, don't you realize? In the case of the French Way, according to the main housing data, there are about 48,000; therefore, 35 housing beneficiaries of 48,000 is 0.07% of the impact of aid on the total building. And if we see that last year's budget execution rate was 15.8% for the Council, what are we talking about? 0,1 % impact? Won't they really tell me that the figures aren't ridiculous? Do you understand now why I tell you that what you bring here is a story? How do you think this could have any impact on Galicia's rehabilitation policy? In order to be able to answer all these questions, today we ask you, first of all, to draw up an annual report that allows you to know the true impact of these aids in the housing park in the area of the Santiago Ways. It is necessary to know what kind of actions are being carried out, which, when requested, are rejected, and why, and the times between the beginning of the procedure, the achievement of the final qualification and the adjudication of the aid. And secondly, to abandon that degree of fiction, they seriously increase the budget. The reality is that this question is complicated from taxing to date because in the budgets this year, the scheduled departure for the Road Living Programme does not assign a specific figure to it. We propose that they do so by doubling the figures of the 2,700,000 that last year were destined for this end. We ask them, therefore, and since they are already clear with today's initiative that they want to continue to bet on this program, they make decisions and stop improvising finals for this story. If you want all of us to sleep happily today, put the necessary means to make everything they dream of for the countryside and for the improvements in the areas of the Way of Santiago a reality and not fiction, which, repeatedly up to satiety, I assure you will not become alone in reality. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u133	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we have to stand before another of these GNPs which the PP brings to Parliament to cover the record. I have already commented in another intervention that the People's Party has turned LNP into a literary genre; of fiction, of course. It brings the GNPs so it seems they do nothing and urge the Government of the Union to continue with a plan that is clearly insufficient, that it does not solve the difficulties of the Greeks and the Greeks to access a dignified housing and, as it happens, are plans to those who can access very few people and leave much of the budgets unexecuted. In 2016, Programme 451A, promoting rehabilitation, budgetary allocation, 13,598,352, of which 2,157.577 were executed; 15.8% were executed. This is a fact that will be enough to justify our amendment and I think it clearly reflects the People's Party's commitment to housing rehabilitation policies. For this reason, we propose a replacement amendment so that instead of urging the Board to maintain and promote aid in the Santiago Road Rehabilitation Area in the coming years, we urge the Board to put in place the measures that are necessary to increase the level of budgetary implementation of housing rehabilitation plans, because maintaining and promoting we understand that it is the duty of the Board of Galicia when it announces a plan. And given the housing situation, if we bring a proposal to this plenary, that is to improve what we have and not to slap back an institution that is not up to the needs of citizens in housing. The reason the People's Party doesn't take housing rehabilitation policies seriously is an ideological issue, because you don't believe in these policies. You don't want to make rehabilitation plans, and you do it by responding to state directives and by covering the bill, which looks like they do when they don't. The housing policy of the Galician Union is purely cosmetic and superficial, which does not attack the structure of a model that focuses on housing as a business and not as a right. There is no housing policy that guarantees the right to a decent housing for all the Greeks and the Greeks. Both legislation and budgets are insufficient to cope successfully with this tragedy that hundreds of families live each year. The results show the inefficiencies and lack of will on the part of the Galician Union. The balance of programmes for the prevention and realisation of people who have been defeated is devastating, and before that, the PP has presented minimal changes for this exercise; no critical assessment of the results of policies applied in recent years and a very timid budget bet, with a low level of execution. The budget for the Housing Rehabilitation Program has been increased, which will soon be useful if it is not implemented, while the effort for the Housing Access Program has been stagnated. The execution data of these programs and the decline in rehabilitation activity in these years are very obvious and rehabilitation actions even in the housing estates owned by the Galician Union are shining out. Official IGE data shows a brief decline since 2009. The policies of the People's Party on housing are policies that understand housing as a good thing to do business. And that's why the policies of the People's Party on rehabilitation are those of insufficiency: plans that sound good, but they either have very insufficient budgets and they don't run or access to these aids is a career of obstacles that makes very few people who can access these aids. What you're doing today with this initiative is it looks like they're doing while they're not doing it, covering the token and nothing changes. In Galicia there are more than 300,000 empty houses, while five daily evictions are carried out. We are far below the European average as regards the share of the social rent market and investment in housing policies with regard to GDP. We're not answering the right to housing, one of the pending subjects of the Galician People's Party. And what happens to the People's Party's Parliamentary Group to work together on housing is to bring a GNP to urge the Galician Union to hold its course, to meet its plan for insufficiency. The guarantee of access to housing remains a matter pending in Galicia, a failure that is causing great suffering. Only makeup measures have been taken that are unable to cope with a problem of enormous magnitude. The right to housing and the recognition of it as a first-needed asset has been reflected in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights for over 50 years; however, access to decent housing in Galicia remains a problem. So we're not going to support your LNP of lies. We take institutional work very seriously; it seems to us that the difficulties that many families have to access a decent housing are a drama that deserves something more serious for them. And we ask them to accept our amendment so that, at least, the Galician Union will implement the budgets of the housing rehabilitation plans to which it is committed. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u134	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Author group of the non-legislation proposal, Mrs. Antonio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u135	Thank you, President. I'm not going to enter if it was necessary or not necessary this non-law proposition because, as they have said many times in this House, each group brings the proposals it deems necessary. But if I'm going to remember the appearance of the Life and Infrastructure Advisor of April 24, the request itself, in this House, to explain the lines of action of the housing rehabilitation programs. It seems you weren't here, or at least you were absent, or you didn't listen — I don't know very well — because that appearance — since I want to highlight two things — will serve to explain why we reject the amendments tabled to this proposal not by law. One, the budgets, because all groups presented in their amendments a reference to the need to duplicate budgets, so in general. And so, in a generic way, he explained to the advisor that the 2017 rehabilitation budget increased by 19% compared to 2016, with over 29 million euros to this end, to those to be added 10 million euros from the Town Council Cooperation Fund. And in terms of the specific programme of rehabilitation areas — as I said earlier — 70 in Galicia — 12 million euros are allocated, i.e. 30% more funds than last year. Mrs. Presas also wants to do -- I don't know if by simulation -- botafumaire amendments, and then the botafumaire amendment she's presenting is also to do what she does. He makes an amendment to say, "Well, I've done my job, I've tabled an amendment to what is not the bill." But really — as I said before — you shouldn't be very careful when the adviser in that intervention commented that it is true that the aid for rural housing empowerment goes beyond the ARI itself of the Santiago Way, there is support for insurvivorship, for rural rehabilitation in historical sets, aid for municipalities for the recovery of old teacher schools, in addition to other measures such as the Zero Tax Programme for the purchase of usual housing in rural areas, an initiative that affects 94% of the territory of Greece and a total of 3,452 parishes. Mrs. Presas, these aren't bot smoking initiatives, they're realities. [[Applause]] For all of you, who were also very concerned about the rate of execution of the funds, it must be said that in 2015 the FCA funds, the funds of the autonomous community for rehabilitation, were executed at 91%. Mrs. Pierres, I don't know what numbers you handle, but of course these numbers are real numbers. As for what you were commenting on in this road-kilometre engineering, the reality is that there are 460 beneficiaries of the program, of the 2016 call. The second question I would like to stress from the advisor's intervention is the Vivenda Observatory, a body that will be created as an instrument that facilitates access to information and knowledge on housing and supports the decision-making process in the public domain and, of course, also in the area of rehabilitation. This observatory is the starting point for recognizing the needs and actions of rehabilitation, whose information will be available to public administrations, to social agents, to all citizens, and of course also to their lordships, if they are to consult the portal when it opens. This observatory will be what makes the evaluation reports which are multi-annual; not annually, Mrs Pierres, because you know that the programme itself is multi-annual. So, making annual reports of something that is multi-yearly, because, of course, as you will know, there will be a bias that cannot be allowed. And finally — but not least — I would like to remind you, to conclude, of the announcement made by the very advisor of the creation of a new normative instrument, such as the Galician Rehabilitation Act, in which you are already working between the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage and the Galego Institute of Living and Solo. It will be the first Greek law of rehabilitation, whose main task will be to boost and speed up actions in the area of rehabilitation and urban renewal, facilitating the interventions of individuals and coordinating public policies in this area. As time is running out, I just want to tell Mr. Cal that today we weren't talking about housing policy -- if you like, bring an initiative and we're talking about housing policy in general -- we were talking about a very partial part, which is the ARI of the Ways of Santiago, for which we bet. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the commercial practices being carried out by the electricity distributors companies to hire or transfer their customers to the electricity-free market
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u137	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u138	Mr. Casal has the floor to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u139	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. I demand your attention because we're going to talk about one of the biggest scams that are producing quietly in Galicia at the moment. More than 500,000 homes in Galicia are literally being defrauded by power companies. I've been preparing the documentation for this non-law proposal for several months, but a month and a half ago, when I registered it, I was even more encouraged by the fact of finding a lady I know from my neighborhood, almost 90 years old, who told me about her experience of the day before. They called him at the door of the house, downstairs, saying, "We're from Fenosa." She opened and came a gentleman, upstairs, who said to her textually, "We're from Fenosa, and we saw him change the contract to Endesa." The lady said, "But, that, to me what...?" And he said, "No, you're going to suppose a very important savings, and besides, as a pensioner, we're going to give you an offer of not knowing that..." The merchants came into your house, took the phone, dialed it and started telling the lady that I had said, yes, yes... say yes, "Yes"; say yes, "Yes" —textual. He told me, and he said, "And this is going to happen to me?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I said, "Oh, man, this is going to cost you, at least, between 5 and 10 euros a month for electricity, because you've been transferred the contract to the free market, and, in your case, with your consumed power and your contracted power, you're going to pay a lot more... well, not much more but between 15% and 20% more." And he told me if it was possible to solve it. I wrote him a paper of how he could go the next day "to the Fenosa" — as she said — to get his contract back. Besides, it was very funny because he said to me, "They won't listen to me because I'm going to tell them..."—she worked for many years in Catalonia, although she's been retired for more than twenty-five years and has returned to Galicia—"...that I have a friend in the Generalitat of Galicia." Well, that's the massive reality in the last two years. In fact, she told me there were a lot of older people in Fenosa's office with exactly the same problem. In the last two years aggressive campaigns — as we all know — have been producing advertising in both media and telephone calls and home visits by the main marketers operating in the electricity-free market. The aim is to get consumers to abandon the PVPC tariff — the voluntary price for the small consumer — which, as you all know, is the regulated price, moving them to the free market with tariff offers which in most cases are supposed to accept monthly price revisions prior notice, with criteria not specified in the contract, the waiver of billing for hours and the waiver of the possibility of opting for the social bonus, which, in accordance with Royal Decree 6/2009, is linked to the provision of a contract with PVPC tariff. And the worst thing is that in most cases the consumer is not aware of what he's signing, in fact, a lot of people -- and there's data I'm going to give -- that he's in the free market and he doesn't even know it. Some users might be aware that they hired light in a free marketer -- especially because they have the same name, one is Fenosa Natural Gas U.S.R., and the other is Fenosa Commercializing Union, S.L.; i.e., for normal people, the difference is hard to vote on. Most people change, or change, without knowing, how consumer organizations report it. CNMC conducts a survey every six months between consumers to examine them, and last November reveals that 44% of the consultants didn't know what type of electricity tariff they had hired and that one quarter of them didn't know what power was available at home either. CNMC also found these misleading practices, and a few weeks ago it reported a fine to Gas Natural Fenosa, Iberdrola, Endesa and Viesgo for changing the customer contract to pass them to the free market without their express consent. According to the latest information published by CNMC in its bid comparison, they only have lower prices than PVPC offers with low or non-existent contractual information or those that include monthly, quarterly or prior notice revision clauses; i.e., there are misleading prices that can be increased in a matter of months or weeks. In addition, other types of offers offer the opportunity to pay a fixed price each month, but do not explain that stability is paid and that the bill adds up at the end of the year. In addition, when moving to the free market for consumers, marketers are not obliged to comply with the regulations of the Ministry of Industry and Energy and can freely agree on the prices and, most importantly, on the terms of the contract. In this way, consumers expressly waive rights that are included in the PVPC tariff, of which in many cases the people who change the contract are not aware, and that they are never warned, among others, we can cite regulation on supply cuts due to lack of payment of invoices. In the current PVPC, marketers must give a four-month margin to customers in that situation before leaving them without light. In the free, interruption can be instantaneous with smart counters. And the possibility of accepting the social bond, which exists only when you have a contract with PVPC tariff. Until recently the vast majority of Greek consumers were in the PVPC fare, but the aggressive and misleading campaigns mentioned are reverting this situation, which is a scam of enormous magnitude. Even if new contracts are not even offered — and the consumer — the possibility of hiring PVPC has been met. It is true that the free tariff of the free market could be advantageous for some homes with high contracted power and high consumption, and yet they could be entitled to the PVPC tariff, but they are the minimums and with very special conditions, so it is essential that the waiver of the PVPC tariff should be carried out with proper counseling. The current situation in Galicia is as follows: Gas Natural Fenosa has 1,100,000 PVPC subscribers and 300,000 free market subscribers; Iberdrola, 3,000 PVPC subscribers, 94,000 free market subscribers; Viesgo, 37,000 PVPC subscribers and 54,500 free market subscribers; Endesa, 1,600 PVPC subscribers and 68,200 free market subscribers. That is, in Galicia there are a total of 516,700 consumers, households, in the free market. We believe that 90% of them are not compensated for being at this rate, which means, at least, between 50 and 100 euros more per year for their electricity consumption, in addition to giving up the rights already discussed. This hypothesis would lead us to estimate that the fraud that is taking place is an extra cost for citizens and citizens of Galicia that can exceed 50 million euros a year. In the face of all the above, we believe that the Government of the Union must act urgently before a matter of such vital importance as the supply of electricity so that people can exercise their rights voluntarily and knowingly. And that's why and for this purpose we propose the following non-law proposal. We thank the amendments of the Socialist Group and the BNG Group, which really complete and really improve what we proposed in the resolution. And for that we thought that the Galician Union would promote an information campaign, through the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition, which would warn consumers of the practices being developed by electricity distributors to transfer their customers to the free market. That information points are established in all districts of Galicia, with informational events in cities and villages of Galicia, in coordination with the municipalities, where citizens can be advised by experts on the best rate and power contracted for their particular case, especially because that type of advice is produced, can be given in just five minutes. That the marketers should be required that consumers who waive the PVPC tariff have a regulated protocol where, on the one hand, they are satisfied with their suitability to make this decision, taking into account such factors as age, income, etc. in order that, in its case, the intervention of social services or a duly authorized qualified person is compulsory and, on the other hand, each of the rights to which it is waived and the most relevant obligations of the new contract, such as review of prices, supply cuts, charges or reductions in supply due to lack of payment and a comparison in euro/year, considering the average consumer consumption for the current year between the PVPC and the contract offered to them and eliminating all temporary promotions. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u140	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u141	Good afternoon again. Since the BNG we are going to support this non-Mean law proposal because we understand that it is a priority for consumers, as we have defended in our own initiatives and for the thread of other debates that also have to do with the issue of electricity or other consumer matters. Now we're going to take advantage of this intervention to nuance something else. With regard to the first point, experience shows us how little interest the Government of Greece has in exercising its powers in the field of consumption and in developing them to the maximum, so we would like to insist, although we are aware that the proposed group and also the other amending group are aware that it is essential to leap from advertising campaigns in theory, to take them to the ground, to provide greater resources to the Galician Consumer Institute and to make an effort that these campaigns actually come into society. With regard to the second point, we do not oppose it, but we must be aware that our councils have many limitations, especially the smaller ones in this field, both by economic capacity and by geographical dispersion and so on, although we must also value that, precisely thanks to the work of many municipalities and by the work of many consumer associations, many of the CNMC complaints we know in the last month began from municipal offices. But, look! that we are aware that this issue is fundamental, also in municipal life, and that we ourselves, the political organizations, favour these actions in these institutions must not cause us to cease to demand that really the last one responsible is the Board of Galicia and that it is she who has to meet those needs and not the Town Councils, with small patches where they are capable. And lastly, thirdly, on the last point, we think that this is a good thing. We understand that updating and improving protocols is a necessity, because those that exist, of course, do not exist and do not guarantee the protection of the user with their existence. But if we would like to stop at this moment and think more about substantive issues: why don't these protocols work? why doesn't that regulation work? We understand that there are two structural causes, at the bottom, which are fundamental and that, as soon as they are not cut short, the problem will continue to mutate like a chameleon, so, but it will end up being behind: firstly, the conditions of many workers and workers and, secondly, the great electrical system behind it. First of all, yes, the conditions of many workers and workers in the sector, because it speaks, for example, the proposal of the PSOE — and it seems interesting to us — of the need for training, but look! we do not forget that in reality it would be everyday for many workers and workers, commercially, in person or via telephone, there are probably people who have much more training in law, in consumption or in the electrical system that, by setting an example, Mr Fernández de Mesa, and surely among all the staff of that company do not charge the same as that man charged every month. But they are workers and workers who are often subjected to work conditions of true slavery, sold in exchange for goals they have to achieve and who end up leading to bad beaches, surely in many cases, for an individual reprehensible conduct, but in many others by a brutal upward pressure leading to issues such as those referred to by Mr. Casal, or to issues I also know, such as theft of invoices, forgery of identity and others. But as soon as this work situation is so — and it is not in the process of improvement, but surely, in the case of telemarketing, that the commercial profession is increasingly telephoned and less visible, and it will worsen with the approval of the state agreement, the backs of which this collective defends the social majority in Galicia — feel a bad precedent, and it will continue to pass on to electricity, to telephone companies, to insurance contracts and other banking entities and to other calotes of those we have discussed here. Secondly — and that is what our amendment is about — in order to request a report to which it is necessary to transform the monster from its cores and to address the reform of that absolutely dark and opaque oligopolie that are still the electrical companies, with the complicity of the big parties. We have seen the fines and convictions of both the CMNC and the courts, while some of the faces we see in the last headlines, complaints and charges, we have seen them earlier walking around and inaugurating centrals with Mr Feijóo. It's no wonder, for example, that last company, Iberdrola, we also have to remember that the defendant Acebes has among his employees, and so on, etc., etc. We could continue to give a long et cetera, and we could also talk a lot about how we set up the electric tariff based on that large quote which is the tariff deficit, and that ultimately that is fed by the great monster that is the opacity of the electrics, which have their worst deception on these bad scales with consumers, and which adds to that whole scam, which is the tariff system. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are actually going to talk about markets and competition to a large extent, and this morning a conspiring spokeswoman from the People's Party also spoke of the primarys of my party and spoke of "friends". So I'm going to start over, because I understand that... yes, if you were talking about transparency in this Parliament, you could talk about the Socialist Party's primarys, now too. [[Murmurs.]] So what I mean is that to me, of course, they served me for one thing, to know that the envelopes, in addition to charge at B, are useful for voting, a little insignificant detail.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u144	Let's go to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u145	I'm on the subject, yes, yes. The "friends" have a lot to do with transparency and competition; the "friends" who, from a theoretical perspective, are of the soul -- I, as a layman, will call it about B -- are the members of the National Committee of the Markets and the Competition and the Steering Committee of the People's Party, when the law says that the members of the National Committee of the Markets and Competition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u146	Electricity, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u147	...have to be apolitical... Mr President, it is directly related....
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u148	Yes, electricity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u149	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u150	Yeah, I get it. At the moment, I'm aware of things. You don't have to tell me that... I know how it goes. I'm begging you to get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u151	For this reason, the National Markets Commission and Competition is the highest power over the electricity policy of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u152	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u153	And in the National Markets and Competition Commission, which has to have political members, there was a gentleman who the People's Party appointed for the National Markets and Competition Commission in 2013 and who in 2017 appointed for its steering committee. And that's right, with friends, no friends or half-pensionists. [[Applause]] So this is what we're going to talk about. I understand, Mr. Moreira, that you don't like the methodological approach, but unfortunately, it is. It's true that then they said, exactly like the deferred payment, that it was a technical error. The truth is they have gross "organizational" logistics problems, because between knowing who pays the birthdays, not knowing who pays the Jaguars, not knowing what the militants of their national council work in... Hey, really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u154	That doesn't have to do with the electrics anymore. Mr. Losada, please, on the matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u155	I continue on this issue, because the president of the National Markets Commission and Competition was in Santiago de Compostela today; he was in Santiago de Compostela today. In Santiago de Compostela in 2012 the People's Party voted against the initiatives presented by opposition groups, the Socialist Group and other groups on the price of energy, and especially on the price of fuels. They've systematically voted no. Today we were told that in 2014... it took two years to make the report — if they used some budgetary changes to the remaining funds that did not use for energy poverty too — to transfer that report, that request to the Central Government. Today, Mr. President of the National Council of Markets and Competition said so. The year 2014. Since 2014, three years have passed, and — there are members of the 6th Commission — I think that just three weeks ago, the Director General of Energy and Industry said that it was indeed an enormously complex problem and that we did not know very well how to address it, besides telling us that it was practically the fault of the Bipartite for the price of gas oil in 2017. I therefore believe that it is very important for the regulatory bodies — and I am fully on the subject, Mr President — to work properly. And, as the author of the initiative well said, in the case of real scams in relation to supply or electricity charges, I think it's essential to take into account a number of characteristics. Please do not take two years to make a report to send to the National Market and Competition Commission, unless they are waiting for the National Committee of the People's Party to meet and take advantage of the trip. Let's try to make that report quick. There are a number of sociodemographic characteristics that should be taken into account for these policies of absolute premeditated scam. On the one hand, age, aging; on the other hand, the very dispersion of the population, which prevents or hinders at least the establishment of exchange of information and social networks among citizens; on the other hand, the level of income, basically pensions of what was called agrarian, that we all know they are of the lowest in the state; on the other hand, the average educational level, and also we all know that, unfortunately, although here actually the southern Peninsula is in a worse situation — I say it already, because someone is going to talk to me about Andalusia, I say it before — the rate of unformalised studies — as I say in some way — population without formal studies, remains very high, especially in the population over 65 and 75 years old; and on the other hand, access to ICTs. This is the panorama of much of this population, which I don't know if the example of En Marea's voice would come in this example. But this population set, which is quantitatively important in this autonomous community, is unfortunately placed in a position of absolute vulnerability to these traders...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u156	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u157	...—ending, Mr President—unregulated in that National Committee on Markets and Competition, which has scrutinised members who are also members of the national council of the governing party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u158	Thank you, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u159	Thank you, President. Mr. Losada, I don't know what'd happen this weekend, but I see you very excited, huh? The truth is, I don't know what could happen. Anyway. [[Applause]] I'm going to the point. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The truth is, sir...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u160	Quiet, quiet. You weren't in the debate. Quiet, please. No, that's it, that's it. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u161	The truth is, Mr. Casal, is that I am really surprised by the initiatives brought to this House, especially because where they have the highest application they vote against the mere fact that they don't like who proposes or the government that will put them into effect. Look, Your Honor, for this parliamentary group and for the Government of the Union, electricity supply is a priority area, because of its relevance to the well-being and the economy of consumers. If we are aware of the complications of understanding the bill of light, whether we are in the free market or in the regulated market, whether we pay for more power than we need, or whether we would make up for time discrimination; ultimately, if the contract we have is the right one. So, since the Economic, Employment and Industry Council, since 2013, it has decided to respond to these three key elements and launch a new edition of the campaign. It gives light to your bill, an initiative to facilitate the understanding of the bill and report on how to reduce the expenditure, through which I also pretended on energy saving and efficiency, where information on how to carry out the different procedures or how to file claims to the electricians is provided. Look, information has already been held in 74 Greek municipalities, supported by a new web app that has already reached about 3,000 people and which has also been distributed throughout all Galician municipalities. A quick guide was published with the main aspects to be taken into account to understand the bill and to save on electricity consumption, in addition to providing information and advice through social networks and free phone. This, Your Honor, is a coordinated action between the Inega and the Galego Consumption Institute that has been operating, as I said before, since the end of 2013. Look, the Government of Galician Union is not left behind, but is a pioneer both in training, in informing the consumer and also in defending him. In fact, over the past six years, the Instituto Galego de Consumo y da Competencia has processed some 20,000 claims related to electricity, one of the sectors that year after year gets more claims. And about 80 percent of these claims have already been resolved favourably for the consumer. Furthermore, since both the energy and consumption area since 2009, nearly two thousand and four hundred sanctioning files have been opened to electricity companies, worth 24 million euros, when in the period 2005-2009 only nine files, Your Honor, nine, for a value of 97,000 euros. That's the difference between this government and others that preceded us, Your Honor. Look, it does work hard against the abuses that affect the consumer, and the keys are also drawn so that they can save and exercise their rights. Mr. Casal, I remind you that in the Decree-Law on Social Bonus adopted by the Congress of Deputies at the end of 2016 a more beneficial framework has already been established which will include more transparency in recruitment, and will be effective in the regulation currently being drafted and which has been sent to the autonomous communities, after recompiling all the contributions of the various parliamentary groups. But, of course, you, Your Honor, voted against this royal decree. So, you can talk about everything, come here, mix themes, as you just did. But look, this is more than a sample that the Red Seas of Podemos don't want solutions for the people of Galicia or for the people of the rest of Spain, because when Congress adopts an initiative as important as the reformulation of the social bond, with all the improvements it brings, you don't care, you vote that you don't come here and now you ask us to urge the Government of Greece to what, what, what are we demanding for the marketers, what are you already doing? Look, the truth is you don't surprise me anymore. Your group is asking for something here and rejecting it in Madrid. As for the amendments submitted by the BNG and PSOE groups, insist that, in addition to the above-mentioned campaign on the web of the advisory services of the Galego Consumption Institute, they should know that the National Markets and Competition Commission already has a comparison of energy supply, also for the gas sector, in addition to various information guides. And on the transparency of the contract, I recall that these measures are already included in the draft development of the Royal Decree of the Social Bond adopted in Congress. Mr. Losada, in our opinion, we should not assume that companies do not train their employees in the proper performance of their duties. You should know that the Labour Inspectorate doesn't have to install, Your Honor, the Labour Inspectorate doesn't have to be installed to ensure compliance with the law in matters of recruitment; he already performs that function to the Labour Inspectorate. Look, Mr. En Marea, we hope that they will have a little more height of vision and in the process of the popular legislative initiative on energy poverty, do not do here what they did in Madrid with the rejection of the social bond and we are able to reach a unanimous agreement for the most vulnerable people. Everything you ask for in your initiative is already in progress. That's why from this parliamentary group we're going to reject your non-legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u163	We already see that the Popular Group does not want to prevent the continued production of the scam that is being produced. And you're talking about mixing. What does the debate on the social bond have to do with what we're dealing with? No, it has nothing to do with it. And it's not true that the Tide Group is against the social bond. No, what's against is the chapuza you presented. If you want to see a good decree on the social bond, read the adoption in the Aragon Parliament, for example, and you'll see what a social bond is and what a social bill. [[Applause]] Because what was approved in Madrid of a social bond has nothing. In fact, what you most insisted on was to keep the social bond to numerous families regardless of their income. That's very social, that's very social. That's what benefits a kind of family that has a lot of children, even though they have a lot of millions in their current account. That's the social bond you approved. That's mixing, because they don't want to talk. He says that three thousand people have accessed the website and that that gives an answer to the problem. Oh, my gosh, what an answer! —Excuse me, President. What an answer! Three thousand people when in two years they moved to the free market five hundred thousand homes. Is that to give an answer? Really? Are you serious? I thought the proposals I was going to make were a little more serious. Because it's a real scam. This is just like the ones that prefer it, exactly like the ones that prefer it, to sell products to people who don't have the ability to analyze it. Obviously, the amount of the scam is very different. But for these people 100 euros a year is a lot of money, you know? And in addition, all the rights they renounce for them can be very serious. Because that lady, when she's gone to the free market, and a month, so she has no money on her account, you can cut the light instantly into the free market, and you know it. And they shouldn't go over this kind of thing so important, so important for citizenship and for people's safety. Because very likely all these older people have remote attention devices, so if they go to light, they're going to download the batteries and they won't be able to use them. That's why twenty thousand claims and 24,000 million euros of fines. But the fines weren't for marketing, mostly, and you know it; that is, you don't have to mix; they're for other things. They're basically from another kind of incidence, and you know it. I mean, let's not do parliamentary filibustering. The reality is that there is one thing that can be done very easily, and it is that the Galician Council, through the Institute of Consumption, is that when you want to change someone's contract, you explicitly explain it. And it's not done, it's not done at all, it's not legislated, and that's why there are now quinty thousand people in Galicia who are being defrauded, and you don't want to do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u164	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Mr. Casal, you said before you accepted the amendments. I accepted them. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But, then, do you accept the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which are changing its first two points? Then change. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And that of the Block is addition. And he also accepts the additions of PSOE. Perfect. [[Mr. Casal Vidal pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the transfer to the Congress of Members of the request for the establishment of a parliamentary commission for research on the causes of the railway accident in Angrois-Santiago on 24 July 2013, as well as on the safety conditions on the high-speed rail network
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u165	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u166	Mr Sánchez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u167	Good afternoon. It is fascinating — before starting with this question, but it is related — to see how some voices and voices of the People's Party come here to say without complexity what alters the members of other parties of their parties. I don't know if anything has happened to you in recent times in the People's Party has altered you. I don't know if the events with Ignacio González, Esperanza Aguirre, Count Roa, etc., cause you to change them or cause them some kind of shame. No, it seems like they're still on top of this. It's hallucinating, it's hallucinating. That you had to be here, I think with another attitude something more humble and respectful of others' opinions. Yes, sir, you have a lot to say. [[Murmurs.]] My ability to wonder still has limits. Well, the story of the English accident we've known, we've talked a lot about it in this Parliament. The initiative we are presenting today is more an attempt to get to know the truth, in the face of the obstruction of state apparatuses, of the Socialist Party, of the People's Party. It's a further attempt to establish a space where political responsibilities are determined, it's a more democratic attempt to review a system to improve it and to try to ensure that nothing like it happens again. We're not talking about anything, we're talking about an accident with 81 fatalities, the most important railway accident in our history. But we also talked about what happened in a plot where the original project had been changed, where the ERTMS system had been removed, which, according to all reports and cars, if it had been working, would not have happened the accident. We are talking about more than reasonable doubts, that the risks of such a decision have not been properly assessed and that alternative measures have not been implemented that reduce the risk, in an area where a sudden speed transition is to be made from 200 kilometres per hour to 80 seconds. I believe it is sufficient to read a piece of the car not which is not imputed to or the chief of security of Adif, or Mr. Cortabitarte, which says: "That is to say, as it is evident from the reports, an integral assessment of the risk which was not only taken into account by applying the rules of engineering, that it was the human factor that determined the safety of the movement on the curve, but that the interaction of the previous criteria, which were those which for each of these specific situations generally applied Adif, generated a situation in which this possibility of human failure was not reduced or mitigated and avoided by the signaling and produced at a specific point of reduction charged by speed." Or what the Director General of the European Railway Agency said, Mr Doppelbauer: the causes of the problem have not been investigated, there have been no answers, there have been no references to the risk assessment and there is no evidence of the application of the interoperability directive; the accident has not been the subject of a thorough investigation, as the directive requires. In addition to modifying the original project by removing the installation of ERMTS on the curve, we had also disconnected the ERMTS on the rest of the course, which, according to experts studies, would have halved the probability of the accident. The risk of all this was not properly assessed. In addition, a high-speed train was announced on the day of the inauguration and within days of the accident, government officials, including Mr. Catalá, were released, saying that this accident had not occurred in a high-speed frame, to save the contracts of high-speed companies abroad, and that this was a campaign against companies that built high-speed. Mr. Feijóo also said that he came out to defend the high-speed business conglomerate. Warnings about the danger of this kind of sudden speed transitions, such as the warning of the head of Ourense machines, were also ignored in previous years. They haven't been paid attention to reports since 2003, about the Puertollano curve, where there had been a serious accident, too, and where palliative security measures were subsequently taken. In the investigation phase, victims and political forces denounced the obstructive attitude of the Government of the State, but, of course, we were the opposition, which politicized, who wanted to extract political revenue. But this, what this tending opposition said, became a demolition report by the European Railway Agency, where this shameful act by the People's Party, the Central Government, was seen from obstructionism to research. It is clear that the CIAF, the technical commission created for the investigation of the accident, was not independent, did not investigate correctly or with the intention of clarifying what had happened. Independent research needs to be carried out under the supervision of the European Commission. They come back with the results, it is their duty to take this matter seriously — as the President of the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament said. All this time the People's Party and the Socialist Party have blocked the possibility of setting up an investigation commission in the German Parliament. They were based mainly on the fact that this Parliament had no powers to do so. They said no here, but in Madrid they also said no, and now the People's Party at the Congress Bureau is blocking it in an anti-democratic attitude so that it will not be debated in a Congress of Deputies where they have no majority and are afraid of being approved. Until now, then, neither in any place nor anywhere else. We believe that it is false that the Greek Parliament cannot create this commission of inquiry; not only that it cannot; we believe that it is necessary for Parliament, in an accident in the territory of the Greek people, where the sovereignty of the Greek people resides, to believe that commission. But, of course, this request for a committee in the German Parliament has been rejected on numerous occasions and nothing has changed and we believe that nothing will change so that in this Parliament there can be a majority to support it. And, therefore, in seeking, however, if we are useful to the knowledge of truth and justice, we seek other ways to contribute to this, to contribute to the knowledge of truth, to contribute to justice and to which it never happens again. And for this reason, we are presenting this initiative, to see if we are able as a Parliament to launch a clear message, of which we want a parliamentary commission of inquiry in the Congress of Deputies, in the sense of the recent adoption in the Courts of Castile and León, with the Socialist Party's favourable vote and with the abstention of the People's Party, and so we can also speak, Mrs Novoa, of voting here one thing and in Madrid another, or here one thing and in León another or of being consistent. I mean, we want that message out, because this message won't be anything definite, but it will be, if that deal comes out of here, a very important step in this fight. I believe that, if the German Parliament supports this initiative, it would not be a minor thing and would help a lot to break up with the misunderstanding wall of Mr. Rajoy's Government and Mr. Catalá. We wait for coherence and hope for empathy, we hope that they will put themselves on the skin of the victims and a citizen who simply wants to know why it doesn't happen again and that we will know who and how the decisions are made and where it happened, to modify what needs to be changed and whether there are political leaders who have not been up to it and who cannot continue to be political leaders. That is what we intend to do, and that is why we bring this initiative. And frankly, in spite of everything, despite my totally negative assessment of what has happened so far, both by the People's Party and the Socialist Party, in spite of that, the will is that today we rectify and leave this agreement. I think it's important, and I think it would be a decisive step for those who want to obstruct the truth, those who don't want to re-establish democracy and those who don't want to fight for the dignity of victims and citizenship in general. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u168	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u169	Good afternoon. On July 24, 2013 on the corner of Angrois unloaded an Alvia train, causing a gigantic tragedy of 80 fatalities, 144 injuries and victims with permanent sequelae. And then, over the next four years, we can say that there was another derailment, for the drama that means crossing for the victims this situation that has to do with the shadow areas of the state, with the hidden interests that are torn into what we can call the cellars, the sewers of the political and judicial system, with many complicities, with many convolences, so that it is possible, with the objective of covering, concealing and vetoing the knowledge of truth. We tell the defenders, the prayer of transparency that the best way for transparency is by creating research committees, that they need not be afraid of independent investigation committees. Because we're talking, ultimately, about fundamental rights, about those who are fighting victim associations: the right to truth, about what happened, without limits and without censorship; the right to justice, about political responsibilities for these serious events; the right to reparation, which is also a fundamental right that victims have; and also the guarantee of non-repetition. And that's why research committees and independent investigations are needed to correct what needs to be corrected, so that this kind of fact does not happen again. We're talking, after all, about a symbolic struggle for collective dignity, which is what victim associations are doing. And, in order to bring these rights to reality, three avenues of action and research are essential, necessary and complementary to the judicial, technical and political channels. On the judicial route, he has now taken a step forward with the Provincial Court's car for the reopening of the investigation, the imputation of the chief of security of Adif and the announcement of the prosecutor that there might be more charges. In the case of the lack of independence and objectivity of the CIAF, the victim associations had to resort to the European Parliament; they were accompanied by the BNG, through our representative in Brussels, Ana Miranda, who made this investigation possible, this absolutely demolitional report of the European Infrastructure Agency, which says things like that the accident was not independently investigated and obviously essential questions about the causes of the accident, which have to do with the failures in the road and train safety system. And in the political sphere, political responsibilities must be established, and this is done in the parliaments, in the Spanish Parliament and especially in the Greek Parliament, which is where the accident took place. [[Applause]] That is why the BNG will support this initiative, but that is why we also want to complement it, we understand that it will improve, with you, so that it is really more coherent and complete and that it has those three feet that we understand it has to have this issue: the foot of parliamentary research in the Greek Parliament, the foot of parliamentary investigation in the Spanish Parliament and also the foot of independent investigation into the accident. And if we consider that there has been some change in recent times — I don't know if it has to do with what happened this Sunday to the primarys of the PSOE — but if there has been some change, some change in position, and I think that at this time those political forces that ask for an investigation commission in the Spanish Parliament have no reason to veto the creation of an investigation commission in the German Parliament, because, in addition, it is perfectly possible, because we can investigate in this parliament any matter of public interest. We therefore do not understand the veto, in this case, for it to be investigated in the German Parliament. We are faced with a question of health and democratic hygiene to end impunity, to exercise transparency — please — to defend the dignity of this institution as well, in respect of the memory of the victims. Although, therefore, of all the vetoes, what we want to say here is that the BNG will not give up, it will insist, it will persist, because we have a debt, we have a fundamental ethical and democratic obligation, and we will do it there in all the forums where we are touched. We'll get to where it's going, we'll continue to accompany the victim's associations so that the truth can be found, so that it's fair, so that dramas like the English one can never be repeated again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u170	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u171	Good afternoon. I want to be clear from the outset and tell you that we are going to support this initiative, improving it as possible, if this makes it easier for the proposed group, through an amendment that rightly makes this sense. We said in February and now we repeat: we have to give a technical, judicial and political explanation to the Angrois accident, which has a unique gravity in recent times in our country. We have to clarify the truth and make justice. There is a technical investigation which guarantees independence, since the precedent has been put in question, from several instances, including the European Railway Agency. This technical expertise is a precondition for political research, and I would dare say, without going too far into the legal issues, that for the judiciary, too, because otherwise, especially in the political sphere, we would be operating blindly, on the basis of intuitions or prejudices. We therefore present in our amendment a first point where we insist on the need to promote this research of an independent technical nature, and we believe that in this way we favor the clarification of the facts and, therefore, that we know the truth and can do justice. Secondly, in the ongoing judicial investigation, at the stage of instruction, it is necessary to take note of the provincial court's pronouncement, in addition to the action of the driver, to determine the existence of responsibilities, if any, in relation to the absence of the automatic braking system, which has already been mentioned in this forum, as well as the absence of a systematic assessment of the risks in the whole line. And we find it essential to make it easier from the judicial point of view that we can reach the bottom of the investigation and clarify the criminal responsibilities, if any, beyond those that have already been made manifest. And thirdly, there is a need for a political investigation commission, which, based on technical research, of judicial investigation, to determine whether there were other responsibilities beyond the penalties, because the penalties determine them by the Administration of Justice. If there are, they must be properly purified. We said in February, and so we repeated, that it was not the German Parliament at the right time. There are other political organizations, other parliamentary groups, which preceded me in the use of the word that have a different opinion, that we respect. My colleague – I don't know where he is – quoted Daniel Kahneman, who is a psychologist, like him, but who is Nobel Prize in Economics, and has many learnings to offer to others, but let me quote a sentence from him: "We may be blind to the obvious and also blind to our blindness." And I believe that something of this -- let me say it with affection -- occurs in the position of the BNG, especially when we are the ones in the field of other committees of inquiry suffering every day the difficulties this Parliament has so that bodies that are not in Galicia, but that have a central intervention in some events, provide us with necessary information. And that is what happens; in other words, the Galician Parliament has no competence on this subject, it would have the inability to appoint managers and technicians to provide the necessary witnesses to clarify the facts. The appropriate area is the Congress of Deputies. In the Courts of Castile-Leon have recently supported an initiative as we reflect on our amendment, with the support of Podemos, who was the promoter of the initiative, of the Socialist Party and of Citizens and the abstention of the People's Party. I hope that there will be a majority here today so that this initiative can go ahead, supporting independent technical research and supporting that Congress of Deputies can do the necessary political research through the corresponding commission of research. Approval in the Galician Parliament has no executive value, it has symbolic value, but a relevant symbolic value. Added to that of the House of Castile-Leon, it could be the key that opens the doors to the creation of this commission of inquiry in the Congress of Deputies, in a fluent political situation and with a favorable evolution that this decision can be made in its own bosom. Our group would like it to be so, frankly and without any kind of mental reservations. That is why I have already announced: we are proposing this amendment, but, in any case, we would also vote, if this amendment was not accepted, in favour of the proposal made to us by the En Marea Group, which we consider to be positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u172	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Before entering the content, let me, on behalf of the People's Group, once again manifest their solidarity with the victims and the families of the victims of this accident on the Alvia train. We are many of the Greeks who have family or friendship with victims of this dramatic accident and understand their pain. I would also like to convey our respect, affection and understanding to them. How many of us have lost in a tragic accident one of our loved ones knows we haven't found that consolation. The slow passage of time and truth, too, I know they help, and I know that because I know it in the first person, I, who haven't known the reality of the accident my parents died in. I know that this need to know what's going on is real and the pain it's causing I don't know that it's real, too. That's why, and because we know that the truth helps the victims and their families, I want to move them and reiterate the clear interest of this People's Group that the causes of this accident are completely clarified, as deep and as fast as possible. We believe that it is a fair demand of the victims, of the families of the victims and of the whole of the Greeks, who want to know what happened and who want, as a result of this investigation, to take the necessary steps to stop it from happening again. But in order to gain this knowledge, I think it is necessary to do it with depth and rigor, fleeing from demagogic and partisan uses. And bring this proposal here to this Parliament the week in which it was discussed in the General Courts, I think it is more for party interests, by the way, also with the negative vote of the PSOE, where the PP in Parliament has neither a majority nor the Bureau nor Parliament. They speak of this report drawn up by the European Railway Agency and of the demands made by Eurocamera, they have read several of them. I would like to remind you that for the fourth time we offer you that we can make a statement asking that this report be made with criteria of independence proposed by the European bodies. And I also want to remind you that the president of our party, of the Union, knowing the opinion of the European Railway Agency, was the first one who quickly requested an independent, incontroverted and unquestionable report on the accident. I think it is clear that we want the greatest possible technical research to be done. Therefore, if they accept the PSdEG-PSOE amendment, we will support that point 1 of the amendment calling for that independent investigation. We hope that they will accept the amendment and that we will be able to vote on it. That would mean they're willing to move forward and not just use it with other interests. By the way, within his proposal of En Marea, the second request, which is to create a commission on safety conditions on the high-speed rail network, it has already been made in Congress, on a specific subcommittee, in the 2011-2015 legislation. We understand that this is already done and that it is redundant. The second area of research, as they have said before — and for us, in my modest opinion, is the most effective — we understand it to be the judge; that is where the possible criminal responsibilities of the accident are broken down. These researches understand that I'm the place where you can do more deeply and where you can get more accurate to reality than you've ever done. Furthermore, judges can ask for how many reports they consider appropriate and call, if they consider it appropriate, all agents involved. The experience of known cases is that these judicial investigations are increasingly productive and always come much further than any parliamentary investigation commission. Let me pick up a few words that the prosecutor in charge said this week, Mr. Antonio Roma. He said that somehow he has the soul of departure — and I understand why — because he understands — and I second these words — that victims and citizens want to know if there is any political responsibility, but at the same time we know that a parliamentary commission, while being tried, could have interference in this trial and in this process, and that interference from a parallel trial of a parliamentary commission would not help to clarify it, as the prosecutor said these days. So we think it's good not to interfere with judicial investigation, although it might be of political interest, because most of the things that you wrote were done during the Socialist Party's government. On the other hand, allow me to finish by telling you that this channel that we think of is -- let me say -- at least not orthodox, and more given that you have your own parliamentary group in Congress, and that it would be there where they should present it. He spoke to his spokesperson earlier that there was a mouse asking us not to make a liability exemption. I think it's you who are making the discharge of responsibilities or simply creating political noise by bringing this to this House. I've also said on other occasions what would happen if another Congress, another Parliament, told us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u175	...—I have finished, President—what kind of committees we had to do in this Parliament, which would happen if a People's Party Parliament in Madrid told a most left-wing Parliament what to investigate. I'm sure they'd protest furiously. The People's Group — and finally, President — wants to make it clear that it shares that pain for the victims, that it wants to be clarified about the causes of the accident, that it would like that independent, incontroverted and unquestionable report on the accident, and that we believe that creating interference while under trial is not the best way to help. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u176	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u177	Go cynicism, what hypocrisy you just demonstrated, Mr. Fernández Prado! First of all, with all personal respect, bringing the personal question here as a shield doesn't seem very elegant or makes you more right; let's leave it aside, right? Using this to justify a "no" to an investigation commission seems pretty low. On the other hand, he has just said that we have a parliamentary group in Madrid. Of course you do! I don't know if you haven't found out or if you don't want to know that we've already presented in the past legislation at the request of the research commission in Madrid, and not only voted against, but Mr. Hernando has called us miserable, do you, Mr. Fernández Prado? Of course, we ask for it, and forgive for not being politically orthodox, forgive for looking for the scraps you could leave on that wall you want to protect your friends above all, even though you come here with tears of crocodile talking about the pain of the victims. At least don't do that, don't do that. We're looking for every possible way to get to the same place, which you're making impossible for us, Mr. Fernandez Prado. Of course you do! We'll be as little orthodox as we need to reach our goal. You leave the technical committee. You have, of course, done that investigation, that commission at the subcommittee, and it was to the European Railway Agency that you said was not independent, of course! You guys don't want to be a research commission that develops political responsibilities, because you're defending the mafia, the mafia responsible for all this. Of course there were responsibilities at the time of the Socialist Party and Mr. Pepe Blanco, but they were also held in the Government of the People's Party. What else does that give us? As if they were from En Marea. They won't recognize a space where political responsibilities are cleared to prevent, for example, gentlemen like Mr. Rafael Català from being promoted after he played the role he played against the victims, mistreating the victims and defending the high-speed business conglomerate. Or just like Mr. Cortabitte yourself. Why do we have to have a gentleman who might have been negligent in adopting his...? I, without getting into good or bad intentions, why do we have to have an incompetent — being well thought — in a high Congress position without clearing those responsibilities? Do you think this will improve democracy, Mr. Fernández Prado? And you are the party, in addition, that guarantees the unity of Spain, and they vote here one thing, in Madrid another and in León another. Are you the party of seriousness and good management? But what are they telling me? What are they telling me? You didn't even ask forgiveness as a People's Party for the ridicule they did and for the damage they did. Mr. Fernández Prado, look, have you read the report from the European Railway Agency? Isn't it embarrassing for you to belong to a party that did that? That's what the European Railway Agency, which is not in Marea, is not the communists, who want to make partisan use of that, not the European Railway Agency. You come here still above disqualifying our initiatives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u178	On the amendments, Mr. Sánchez, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u179	Yes. It comes to disqualify our initiatives because we use partisans. Look, what we said is picked up in the judiciary. What we said from day one has served to charge the chief of security of Adif. And that's very clear! You want to be confused.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u180	Thank you. On the amendments, Mr. Sánchez, please, on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u181	Yes, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u182	Tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u183	Thank the Socialist Party sincerely for supporting this initiative; the Galician Nationalist Block, too. We will accept the amendment of the Socialist Party. We fully agree with the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block, but if our goal is to look for those scraps to, if possible, if not a majority — so we see — if at least increase the block of those we defend the search for truth, it is not the time to introduce this amendment of the inquiry commission in the Greek Parliament, which we will continue to bring here and continue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u184	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u185	...supporting when you bring it. But today I don't think it would help us achieve our goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u186	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. As has been said, we are now debating an interpellation, in particular, that of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. de In Marea, on the policy of medical emergencies and emergencies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u187	Mrs. Solla has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u188	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Rueda. Almost a month ago we asked him about the 112 strike and what you were going to do in this very House. And we reported that you didn't sit with the workers and the workers on strike. And today, a month later, after a month and a week when the committee starts the indefinite strike, you're still not sitting with them and they're negotiating absolutely nothing. Today, a month later, Mr. Rueda, I can tell you again that, as in April, I am glad to see you here, because you are still not accusing me of receiving the request for a meeting that we have run with your vice-presidency and we continue without being able to visit the emergency units. Almost immediately yesterday they sent an e-mail just before the plenary to offer a very narrow date and time to which we could not attend. Oh, surprise!, two months requesting that visit and arriving just yesterday. As bad as you said in the previous intervention that we could visit the station when we wanted to. [[Murmurs.]] The workers and the workers, Mr. Rueda, don't know anything about you -- as I say -- but not since the strike started, but for months. Precisely the start of the strike coincides or is called precisely because you refuse to negotiate with that template. The only meeting they were summoned to was the one that just offered the company the day after we also asked in this House about their situation and the matter of strike — also, oh, surprise! the next day — to offer them some conditions, an offer that was just like the one they had been refusing for months, absolutely insufficient. We still don't understand why they did this mega-Romanian work on the Road of the new Emergency Building, instead of providing exactly 112 and 061 of the human and material media that have been claiming for a long time; 10 million euros and the enlargement works that have already been done before the opening of the centre, when three years ago - we mentioned it also in the previous full - were investing in the Compostela power station; total, the money is from all the Greeks and the Greeks, they are not from the Unity of Galicia. But what is totally incomprehensible, Mr. Rueda, is your recklessness of not sitting in dialogue, negotiating, when we're talking about something, of a very sensitive service like attention to emergencies. As we moved to the previous plenary session, when workers and emergency workers decide to go to a strike, it's because they're already in a desperate situation, that there's no kind of dialogue, nor is there any ability to negotiate with you, who, regardless of privatizing the service, are of course political leaders. In fact, having it privatized is a political decision. You have changed the situation of work unilaterally without any possibility of objecting on the part of these templates, and yet it is they and they who now have to pay from their pocket that transfer. We have already commented on this on one occasion: 30 kilometers away from each trip, around EUR 3,000 per year of travel cost for these templates. And the worst thing is that they ignored the warnings they were making and they instead of the computer platform reporting that it wasn't ready. Because, regardless of the problem at work, which is there and which is very clear — and what you are not paying attention — there is also a problem with the operation of the plant itself. You wanted to open this new building carefully when the computer system wasn't ready and the workers and the workers had been warning for months. A month ago, at this very plenary session, we already accused them of being afraid that the system was not ready, that workers and workers had to answer calls with their personal phones, that on the same day of the intervention the platform had been paralyzed for half an hour and that emergency warnings with pencils and paper were being collected. We were told by the committee that people were going to be crying about the stress of work, because, of course, attending an emergency is not a joke, and when you can't contact because the operating system doesn't work, there's a pressure situation that I suppose is quite terrible about these templates, about those workers and workers, in addition to an extension of these response times. Firefighters and 061 are also supporting the 112 platform. A month ago, you did nothing at all. Platform continues to make the same errors. These days they sent us a screenshot: it's picking up the incidences of 1970, probably the same date as the People's Party's policies. And in addition to all this, Mr Rueda, the strike committee must be putting up with an external pressure which is obviously attached — we suppose — that they withdraw from their right not only to manifest the strike, but to claim their working conditions and claim that emergencies in Galicia take place in the right way. All these days we are told about the problems they are having: they don't allow them to enter their own work center, they don't allow them to place information on the panels dedicated to this end within their work center -- which they don't have the rights of workers and strike workers -- from 22 hours they can't enter the building. And these days it also happened that they showed up, they sanctioned a worker to talk to another colleague by phone asking him about the strike and how this situation was. You're also not taking any kind of measure. The situation reaches such a point that they are even putting photos around the center with insults from people, even from the president and other people on the strike committee. No measures are being taken. And it seems to me — the truth — a month and a week after the strike started without any intention of negotiating anything at all, which is, of course, regrettable that it is not even respecting the right to strike at the center. We insist on this because it seems important to us and because — as we have already moved to it the other day — privatize or it is not a political decision. The strike committee, supported by this meeting of workers and workers of 112, the Galician Association of Emergency Techniques and Techniques, the Association of Health Emergency Techniques and the Inter-union Bureau of Firefighters and the Galician Public Firefighters Platform have made public a press release and a press release — they lack only two weeks — where they move that reality is that the problem is really all lack of human and material resources that have led to this situation. And so they made public their opinion about how emergency care was taking place in our country. We discussed it in the previous legislation when the Fandicosta fire occurred and the disunity between the various services, which is their responsibility. We were now being moved by the fact that the outcome was not — in his opinion — isolated facts, that on April 26, these very elements once again manifested themselves in the greatest tragedy of the past few years on our coast, with the shipwreck of the New Marcos fishing vessel, which you already know. I suppose you'll be aware of the contents of this press release, of that press release that has denounced the lack of coordination and sufficient means to deal with emergencies in our country. It seems obvious that you have no interest in solving neither the lack of coordination of sufficient human and material resources in 112, nor even sitting with those workers and workers who have already been suffering as part of more than one month of indefinite strike without you having the decency to sit down and negotiate or even the slightest aspect. And I ask you, Mr. Rueda -- I said it in the previous plenary -- because under your jurisdiction there's also everything that has to do with the Galician Joint Equality Secretariat, which kind of conciliation sells you with a forced transfer without any kind of counter-contraction to workers who have to do now 60 kilometres a day in order to move, go and come to your work center. Because those are also their competences and it seems that neither on the one hand nor on the other they're meeting. So, Mr. Rueda, we bring back with this question the questions that we have already moved on to the question and that were not satisfied; you have in writing. We hope that today you will finally give an answer and we will be able to know when you will be worthy to sit and negotiate the situation of ill-treatment — to our understanding — that you are living by the workers and workers of the emergencies of this country, who, of course, do not deserve this kind of treatment not only at work but, of course, by the very important service they have to provide. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u189	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. Mr. Rueda Valenzuela has the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mrs. Solla, indeed, I've been here a month ago and there's a variation: the arguments you put forward are exactly the same as you said a month ago; I insist: a variation. Right now there are 70,000 incoming calls, more than 15,000 incidents correspond to those 70,000 calls. And with all the improvements that need to be made logically in a system change, because it's not just a change of location — which also — to improve, it's a change of computer platform, I think the service is very acceptable. And, of course, what you were saying -- I understand -- in a twitter that when there's more distance now it's more time to respond to emergencies, that nonsense, if I'm allowed to tell it, it didn't happen. I'm so sorry you can't visit 112. We told him, indeed, that a transfer, which had to be made, had to take some logical time, too, for that transfer to have a certain stability; a month seems reasonable; hey! immediately. Tell me what matches this plea? Hey! I can tell you is that if you were given a transfer to yourself that you could visit the center both this Friday and next Friday. I understand that maybe it's the start of the week and you might not be well enough, and it suits professionals who have to take care of it, and that's why we told them it could be those days; to you, neither this Friday nor what's coming. We'll continue to try to meet your interest and your urgency in knowing the center. We will continue to propose dates until you have one on your political agenda — or any schedule — that will allow you to visit the centre. Suddenly you have two proposed dates you cannot attend. [[Applause]] I understand perfectly that the agendas are complicated, also yours, also that of the professionals who have to attend and who have to teach and answer all the doubts that you pose on that visit, you and anyone who thinks it appropriate to accompany you. I'm very glad to be here a month after answering this question, of course, it's my obligation, and I'm very glad, because — I'm telling you again — the arguments that you just exposed are the same, mine too will be, with the difference — I insist — of 70,000 incoming calls and more than 15,000 incidences related to those calls. You can do demagogy by saying since what I reminded you that the distance from the new center has affected the attention of calls. That has to explain it, really, because no one understands it. To demagogy with such unfortunate events as the shipwreck of the New Marcos! because if they were also said, and you just said here things that are not true and, indeed, I am very glad to be able to be here and to explain to you how things are evolving, what are the difficulties we already knew we were going to meet, what are we going to meet, but what are also the reasons for deciding this transfer and what are the reasons for public interest we are looking for. Of course it's a political decision. In the end, those who govern have to decide, and therefore any decision made from a government is a political decision. Now, these decisions made by a government, political decisions, are seeking, at least they are ours — I suppose you, if you ever have the opportunity to govern, will also seek it, the public interest; we certainly look for it. That was the reason for the transfer, it wasn't any whim. Hey, this transfer was already planned. It's just, if you want, I'll tell you again that when we arrived in 2009 we found a decided transfer, that's yes, to another municipality, more or less the same distance as the Road. The difference was that it was much more expensive and everything contracted by the secret system; everything: building building, much more expensive; platform, which would be out of place the day the computer system was installed; everything, all with that secrecy we found ourselves with. But it was a decided move. I suppose the two-party government at that time also evaluated the conditions under which the 112 service was being developed and also assessed that it was convenient to get a transfer to a more appropriate place to meet something as important as emergencies. That was the reason, Mrs. Solla; don't look for others, because there are no them. And I think you know it perfectly well. But I, as I think the best here is total transparency, I'll explain to you all the day you have to turn to 112, we'll also explain it in person, but while I explain it here in Parliament. He asks a series of questions and I answer them without any problem, I say, thank you for being able to do it a month later when we've seen the center, the new center acting with real calls. Tell me, what reasons does Junta have for investing around 12 million euros in the new road building instead of providing the services of 112 and 061, how do workers and workers demand? Indeed, it was an important investment, with public money — I insist, to improve — — — again — much cheaper than it was planned by the two-party government, I understand that also taking into account objective reasons. You think investing in a new building, a new platform, isn't it investing in emergencies? The only way to invest in emergencies is to stay where we are, not to think of more ambitious targets, because going to a new building with a new platform, with a new training for workers, isn't that investing in emergencies? Well, I'm telling you, yes, what it's like to invest in emergencies. So the reason is that we think that it was better that investment than to continue in the place where we were. I insist that you also believe so much the Bipartite, made up of the Bloc and the Socialist Party — some of its members are sitting in this House today. 4,700 square meters, 77 initial posts, will allow the integration of other bodies that also serve emergencies. [[Applause]] Those are the reasons for deciding the transfer. Second question. What does the Galician Union intend to do about the cost that the staff will have to bear with the transfer? Hey, you know the rest of them are proposed alternatives, another thing is that we're in a negotiation that's open. I'm glad it's open. Right now it was requested by both sides -- understanding; otherwise, it would not have happened -- the mediation of the Galego Labour Relations Council, and right now it is trying to reach an agreement, hey!, and I hope that one can arrive, among those who have to do it, said by the person himself, by the professional himself who is doing mediation on the Labour Relations Council. The Union must not be mediating, who has to be mediating is the company and the workers of that company, because this is a concession, as it is now, as it was in the Bipartite, which could change it and not change it, I suppose also given objective reasons why they proposed the transfer and how it is in the vast majority, if not at all, of autonomous communities, of all political colors; some have changed their government in 2015, and they haven't changed the concession; some governed by parties close to the Power Seas, and they haven't changed it, I suppose because they believe it's the best system. What's to improve? Of course, but you have to rescue the concessions because yes, hey!, in other autonomous communities in which you rule or your political affinity partners are ruling have not changed either and they follow this management system; I suppose for some reason it will be. So you come here to tell me that what you have to do -- or that's what I understood, and if you don't, I hope to clarify it -- is first to rescue the concession. Hey, it wasn't done anywhere, it's for something to be. It will have to improve the conditions in which it lends itself. That's why we decided to move. That's why. And, therefore, as we know that this is an even greater cost, so there are proposals on the table, so that those who are really costing them a higher cost, because not everyone, you'll know, another thing is that you say it, of course, logically each one lives where he wants, there are people who even now the work center is closer to the road than he was before. Therefore, prejudices are not the same for all. Those who have a prejudice of course have to be offered compensation, and that's what they're doing. Another thing is that you agree that that compensation is enough or not enough, and that's the subject of negotiation. And you know that I had proposed compensation, the possibility of a bus, everything that was put on the table, and that now it will have to be the representatives of the workers who agree whether it's enough or not enough. Have you thought about Junta reconsidering the transfer? Hey, no. We've done it to improve, we think it's getting better, and therefore, as I said, governments are going to make political decisions, and we're making that decision. We think it has a lot more advantages than the disadvantages that can result. Have you thought we'd sit down and negotiate transfer conditions? I think I just answered it. Why don't you answer this honourable Member's request to visit the facilities? Two requests; at the end of the week it could not be, not at the end of the week, sorry, at the beginning of the week. We will continue to try something that can satisfy at the same time its schedule and its urgency, which seems to be somewhat incompatible. And finally, last question: does this transfer respond to an intention to merge services? No, no, no, no. It responds to a will of integrals. 61 is one thing, 112 is another. By the way, you're asking to visit the 061 facility on the Road. It's just that it's not moved yet, it's not working. I can offer you -- it's also my responsibility, as a direct responsibility for 112 emergencies -- it's that I visit 112, which I suppose is what you're interested in, which is what's working. When you move 061, I suppose it's time to see on the ground the conditions under which the service provides 061. But anyway, what I can tell you is that there's no intention of unifying it, there's the intention to coordinate it, because it works better for emergencies, and I suppose in that you will agree; at least I am and believe that the vast majority of the Greeks too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u191	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u192	Thank you, President. Mr. Vice-President, I do not tolerate disrespect and my agenda is not opinable to you, just as I will not come to think about your agenda. I would ask you, please, to stick to that which is expected from a Vice President of a Board like ours. [[Applause]] And you moved that I used the same arguments, but you use the same ones; in fact, you use a tweet again; you'll remember that I already told you to be glad that I followed you on Twitter, you told me you didn't follow me. The argument is the same, and I, if you want, will explain the same to you again. Of course, response times can be delayed if you have to mobilize troops that are located in your dwelling — that's pure mathematics, I think you can understand anyone — because, of course, if you have to move to a great catastrophe from your home to the current center, it's obvious that you have to use some time, because teletransport still doesn't exist, Mr. Wheel. Of course, there's been incoming calls since the opening, because people are working. That's obvious. That doesn't mean the operating system is working well. And we're very concerned that you disagree with your obligations. We moved to him a month ago what was happening, today there are still problems, and today you still don't solve those problems. And I'm telling you, of course, there are more people working on Vice-Presidentship, because the ultimate responsibility at the political level is yours. By the way, it would also be good if you answered the call for a meeting, because the Health Council did question me about the 061, but that's something else. And you call me quite the attention that you say that I bring here things that are not true, or fallacies, because what you're saying is that, therefore, you claim that the firefighters of Galicia, the emergencies of Galicia, 061 in Galicia, are completely lying, and you're only right when you denounce the problems of coordination in emergency care. And I've already said that I'm reading textually, and I'm going to do it again. On April 26, these same elements again manifested themselves in the greatest tragedy of the last few years on our coast. In the shipwreck of the New Marcos fishing vessel, where three sailors lost their lives, the closest aquatic response media that could support Marine Rescue were those of Pontevedra firefighters, who were never mobilized, since the agency that should have alerted them, 112, did not know that this park had that kind of resources, which demonstrates in the most painful way the practical significance of lacking a resource map, as in Fandicocosta. Moreover, the collapse that 112 personnel have been reporting has been highlighted in the fact that in mobilizing another essential resource for those sailors, the Fishery I rescue helicopter, the technology platform has blocked the alert call, delaying about 10 minutes the airway, an assumed delay that has well-identifiable direct managers. If the situation was already alarming, the transfer of the Emergency Centre 112 is spreading the collapse to other organisms: health emergencies, firearms, rescue and rescue devices, security forces, civil protection, etc., as we reported on April 22 in a press round that the Galician Union has decided to ignore. You follow from behind the workers and the workers, and what's worse, you follow from behind all the Galicians and the Greeks, because they are the emergencies of our country, and if they don't work well, it's your responsibility. And if you have them privatized, it's your responsibility, and you can't unload the political responsibility you have for being Vice President of the Galician Council either in the templates or in the company. I don't know if I'm going to have some responsibility, sometimes what I know is that you have it right now and you should take care of it. You can't unload that responsibility in the company and stay so quiet. It's not just a question of work. You decide to transfer the power station, but the consequences are for the templates, and you're disengaged. What kind of person are you responsible for? I understand that this should be concerned, firstly, about the situation of these templates, and — I repeat — secondly, because we are talking about the emergencies of Galicia. And, please, we'd rather this not have happened, we'd rather not read this press release, I hope it works well from now on and there's no problem and we don't have to bring this back here. But the reality is that it's not, the situation is serious, and I think the least you can do is listen to those people who are telling you this doesn't work properly, because it's precisely the workers of the 061, 112, the firemen of our country, who know better than you, better than me, how the emergencies of the country work. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close this inquiry, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Solla, I'm sorry that you're so upset about the agenda, but it's true. He had a lot of urgency and couldn't be, let's keep trying to match the dates that would suit the professionals and suit you as well. It's not a lack of respect, it's a reality that happened and that, as you named it in your inquiry, I was asking the question, and when you spoke in the first intervention you said it, I say, on those dates for you can't be for whatever reason. Listen! I respect your schedule, but I also have to say here a reality that is there and that I really hope, and that I am very interested, that I go there and really see what the new building consists of, what improvements, what new benefits there are. What's wrong? It's a transfer, of course, and the main problem is that there's a strike with a reduction of troops who have to attend to emergencies and, therefore, that's, hey!, it's not a subject that you may not know. But I'm going to tell you again: it's that we came here a month later with a lot of incoming calls and I think that with a level of satisfactory attention, and that's starting because those who have the merit, of course, are the professionals who care for them. But we could get here! And the professionals are the ones who know about emergencies, neither you nor me. That's why I ask and ask everyone. I don't think you're asking everyone. You speak here -- I said, I took note of Galician firemen. All the firemen in Galicia were the ones who said this? No, a number of professionals, but there are many other professionals among Galician firemen. Don't say "the firefighters of Galicia" and say "certain firefighters." Don't talk about Galician emergencies. Hey, what are the emergencies in Galicia? The emergencies of Galicia, fortunately, are composed of many professionals, many volunteers, who do not allow themselves to be influenced either by their opinion or, surely, by my opinion, nor do they observe, and all, not all, I would like them to be even more!, they had the opportunity, before it was working, in some of the days they had, to see what was being built there, to see what was being proposed to them, what was explained to them, and they all felt that it was an obvious improvement. The emergencies of Galicia, of which you speak with such joy and arrogant representation of all of them, are thousands and thousands of men and women who have opinions different from theirs and mine, have nothing to coincide with either of them, and I simply ask that it be objective. The 061. Now it turns out that 061 criticizes 112 and says that everything is a disaster, as I understand you, I suppose. You've been talking about 061, firefighters, emergencies. Everyone agrees with you and doesn't care about reality. It's not so, fortunately, and what we have to do is that more and more time is spent, that the platform gets more and more attached, that it gets more and more normal and, of course, that the labour conflict is resolved. Because we are talking — and I agree — about a work conflict. That's what there is and above all you want to mix -- and I'm telling you it's demagogy, I told you in my first intervention and I'm telling you now -- that the labor conflict is directly related to an emergency disaster, because nothing works, because it's all much worse and because it evolved into a much worse benefit than there was before. It's not true. It's true that there's a labour conflict, it's true that if you have to solve it, it's true, and I'll tell you again, the Council's mediator said who had to sit down were the parts that were sitting. The Council of Galicia received the workers, on seven occasions, heard them, and spoke to the company to put on the table proposals, but at the end — and you know it as much as I do — who has to reach that agreement, who has to close it are the directly affected parties, who are, firstly, the trading parties, and that happens in all the indirect management services, the concessionary companies, in this case which has granted 112, and the workers and workers of 112, who wish it to reach an agreement, we are the first interested ones. But don't say that this is what the Galician Union has to do, because all the services that work indirectly — I insist — many in government now managed by Podemos in other autonomous communities, work exactly the same, and if there was a conflict, I can assure you, if they put it in the hands of the labor authority, that it would solve exactly the same. So, Mrs. Solla, I hope that the day we can match, that you can attend 112, see what's really there, see the investment paid with public money. We can also explain why we didn't want to do it at the most distance, probably that of the Road, in the Town Hall of Oroso, a much more expensive building, hired by the secret system, contracted with all the reserves, without anyone knowing anything. Here, light and tachographs, transparency and that emergencies work well. Demagoxies, minimals, and on such a serious subject, much less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u195	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Da Paula Prado del Río and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the concrete actions being carried out by the Police Unit in the field of protection for women victims of gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u196	Whenever you want, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u197	Thank you very much, President. Mr Vice-President, combating violence against women is a responsibility of everyone, it is a responsibility of the whole of society and it is a responsibility of all public authorities. Society, as always, manifests an attitude of zero tolerance against male violence. We must promote that zero tolerance also moves to the part of society that did not understand that message, which did not understand this need to denounce when they knew of a situation of macho violence around them, and accompany those people who decide to file these complaints or accompany the victims when they decide to report. Public authorities also have an obligation to put in place measures, to put in place resources for victims, but we also have a responsibility, which is our public demonstrations. It can't be said that there are no resources, it can't be said that no measures have been put in place, because that can cause the opposite effect of what is sought, that the victim denounces or that the victim initiates a way out of their situation accompanied by these measures, by those professionals who are at their disposal and by those resources that we all put in place, one way or another, all the administrations involved in combating gender violence. We are aware that we are aware that the Galicia and the Government of the People's Party, since the year 2009, which has been ruling in Galicia, has launched a host of resources and numerous measures to improve the prevention and treatment of violence against all forms of violence: judicial advice on line: the free legal advice of the People's Party, since the year 2009, which has been ruling in Galicia since 2009, which has been ruling in Galicia in Galicia, has launched numerous resources and numerous measures to improve the prevention and treatment of and treatment of violence: judicial advice on line, the free legal assistance from the very beginning, as well as the free payment of legal assistance from the first moment, as well as the free payment of legal assistance for children and their children, as well as the provision of the Junta de Galician women, the incorporation of a remote translation service for foreign women who do not know our languages, the attention of women, the specific attention attention for deaf women, the deaf women's intimate sex exploitation, the implementation of the Xego center, the implementation, the implementation of the Xego center, the implementation of the recovery recovery centre, the recovery centre, the recovery centre, the recovery and the implementation of recovery, the implementation of the results, the results, the implementation of the results, the results, the implementation of the results recovery, the implementation of the implementation of the results of the results, the results, the results recovery, the results recovery, the results recovery, the results recovery centre, the results, the results recovery centre recovery centre, the results, and the results, the results recovery, the results recovery, the results recovery, the results recovery, the recovery, the results recovery, the results recovery, the results recovery, the results recovery, the results recovery, the real, the results recovery, the results recovery, and the results recovery, the real, the real, the real, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the results, the results, the results, the results, the results, the results, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the results recovery, the results recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the results recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the results recovery, the results recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the recovery, the We also know that, in addition to these measures, if you have placed the Police Unit now in the field of victims of gender-based violence. We would like to ask you, Mr Vice-President, what action is being taken on the operational activity of the Police Unit in the field of the protection of victims of gender-based violence? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, for the truth is that efforts have been made on the action of the Assistant Police Unit, the last resort incorporated in the Galician Union to the fight against gender violence. Without falling into any triumphalism, because this is a task to which a great deal of work is left ahead and which does not allow any rest until it is eradicated — I hope this can happen someday — the truth is that this comprehensive cross-sectional vision that enables us to coordinate the entire Union of Galicia and, therefore, also the Adscribed Police Unit as an important part of the Vice President's resource, is bearing fruit through this Interdepartmental Commission which has been gathering since the year 2013 — I believe that this must be done — the different departments of the Galician Union; that is, in all stakeholders in this struggle are taking important steps. And the last one was, last summer, the incorporation of the Assistant Police Unit, the Autonomic Police, into the fight against gender violence. What did we do first? Sign, as it has been being obliged — I remember — the functional dependence of UPA staff on the Ministry of the Interior and therefore was the Ministry, through the security forces and bodies in Galicia, who had already been developing this task and therefore we had to sign a protocol, incorporation to VioGen, so that the staff of the Unit could also develop this task. The necessary specific training has also been provided and, finally, within the Adscribed Police Unit, the Prevention, Assistance and Protection Unit has been created to victims of gender-based violence, which is called gender-based violence. In the second part of the replica I'll give you statistics this time, these months that are already gone. I think it's enough time for us to be able to draw some conclusions, at least we have figures that allow it, but after these three steps that I told you (the signing of a protocol and formation and the creation of that specific unit), what we did these months was to collaborate with the National Police Corps on all the calls that were made about the likely existence of an episode of gender violence, moving the means of which I had available to the Unit, taking singularly care of those victims who were entrusted to us, including the provision of detailed information on the legal procedures, victims, support institutions, procedures that they had to do, as the complaint had to do; all this is something that must be done always when such an episode is produced, and therefore, after that training, the staff and staff of the Unit were prepared to do so. Then, when necessary, the transfer of victims to the care centre when an aggression occurs, as well as to the police station in order to be able to put the complaint and to assess the risk that had actually occurred; collect data on the offender, on the alleged aggressor, and put in place the appropriate security measures, which were necessary; and take the protection measures that are established in the corresponding protocols based on the level of risk that was most appropriate for the victim. These performances began sometimes by chance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u200	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u201	...of course the victim's instance or the third-party requirement and, sometimes, by emergency service calls, also 112, of what we just talked about right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u202	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President, with your explanation that has just been made here about the action being done by the Assistant Police Unit, along with some of the measures and resources that I have just exposed in my first intervention, we see as the Government of the People's Party, far from showing passivity, as some members of other political forces say accusing the People's Party that the cuts in the field of violence masquerade kill and using masque violence as a political rebound weapon, we want to express our rejection against these demonstrations, because we believe that it is a lack of responsibility, that we have to be responsible for making this kind of demonstrations, Mr. Vice-President... this is an absolutely serious issue in which political responsibility has to be above any party interest and above any electoral ried that is intended to be removed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] I would like to congratulate you, Mr Vice-President, and the Government you represent at this time, on answering this question, because, although some would like you, in fact, to have invested less in equality policies, in prevention and treatment of gender violence, reality is very stubborn, and not only in 2017 will budgets increase for victims of macho violence, but also other issues, such as the one you have just stated, putting the Police Unit to defend and assist victims of male violence, and which is not in those budgets, show an absolute commitment by the People's Party to fighting against male violence. I hope all political leaders put aside those irresponsible demonstrations that only make the victim in a situation of perhaps not presenting a complaint because they think there are no resources, that there are no measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u205	...and that there are no policies that will accompany them on that hard road to escape from the violence of the macho. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u207	Mrs. Prado, as I told you in the reply, I believe that, answering your question, it is appropriate to give the data of these months, which are the initial months, but which have already occurred in a number, I think that enough to be able to provide indicative data of what is being done. Therefore, and given that, of course, attention, the fight against gender violence must be a priority for all and all professionals of the Adscribed Police Unit, I say that a specific group has been created within the Unit, in addition to a series of support shifts, which have as their primary mission, within the support tasks, to support this specific group. In total, between the specific group and the support shifts, 365 days a year, 24 hours, there are more than 70 professionals who pay attention to the fight against gender-based violence, to the victims, as one of their main missions, 13 exclusively to that, and then 66 who have among their support tasks as the main one. What are the data that throws this addiction? Well, I mean, in these 183 months, women who are victims of gender-based violence have been treated by the Under-Secretary of Police Unit. By giving him a little more detailed breakdown, 29 in Santiago, corresponding to the deployment of the Autonomous Police; in the city of Coruña, 47, in the area of action they have in the city of Coruña; in Lugo, 23; in Ourense, 28; in Pontevedra, 17; in Vigo, 41. In total, as I said, 185, updated the data to this day. By types of action: 17 detainees; 504 victim risk assessment reports; counter-vigilances; more than 12,500; identifications, almost 600; collaboration — understanding as collaboration a wide fan: accompaniment to the judges, hospitals and all that the victims need—, 170; contacts with victims, interviews, orientations, 1,500; and attention to direct requirements, not by indication of the National Police, which have produced so many — I say, above all in the first few months they were the ones who so far dealt exclusively with this service—, direct requirements, 250. So I say I wish I had to say that the figures were zero, but, as they won't, unfortunately, be stabilized at least and that after each of these figures know that there's a woman who needs the security forces and bodies, and it's a pride to say that right now the Assistant Police Unit, which is at the service of Galicia, is also involved in this fundamental task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u208	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the position of the Government of Galicia regarding the requirement of the National Markets Commission and Competition in relation to Decree 12/2017, establishing the management of tourist apartments, tourist dwellings and tourist dwellings in the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u209	Whenever you want, Mr. Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u210	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr Vice-President, the tourism sector today is a sector of strategic weight and also one of the most important economic activities for Galicia, as it contributes to creating many jobs and favouring territorial rebalancing. The tendency to rent the usual housing for days or weeks, both by individuals and by tourists, can be understood on some occasions as unfair competition, which runs counter to the reality of tourist destinations. Nothing further from reality. That is precisely why there is a great consensus in the sector in the need to regulate this new trend. The offer of tourist housing is a reality that responds to a new demand and that is not incompatible with other traditional offers. It plays an important role within tourism, so that potential users do not flee to other destinations, and this offer must be rejected by an easy and clear regulation to comply with. This is why Decree 12/2017 of 26 January establishes the management of tourist apartments, tourist dwellings and tourist dwellings in the Autonomous Community of Galicia regulates tourist use dwellings whenever they meet the requirements, and in view of the collection there is the doubt of a constructive dialogue with municipalities and associations of the sector and, in addition, almost certainly, the possibility of compliance with it in established terms. The decree we are talking about came into force last May 10, despite the complaints of the owners and their appeal to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and the requirements of the National Commission for Markets and Competition, which considers their requirements too restrictive. The National Markets and Competition Commission therefore believes that the provisions concerned should be deleted or amended to further promote the general interest, so that they do not hinder the development of effective competition. The National Markets and Competition Commission has already acted for the same reason against other communities, such as the Canary Islands and Madrid, where the courts of justice have supported their theses. The European Commission also shares the approach of the National Markets Commission and Competition on restrictions that raise market entry costs, discourage operators who were already participating in new service models and reduce the number of competitors and incentives for more efficient and competitive prices. That is why the parliamentary group asks the following question: what is the position of the Government of Greece on the requirement of the National Markets Commission and Competition in relation to Decree 12/2017? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u211	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Pérez Seco, you said — or I understand — that there is a general consensus between the whole sector in the need to regulate all the new tourist phenomena that are taking place, all new ways of providing tourist services, of course, including tourist housing. And the proof and demonstration that there was consensus and necessity is that the German Government decided to make this regulation and pass the decree. Would it be easier if I didn't do anything? Probably. It's not wrong who doesn't do anything, but maybe he's continually wrong precisely because he doesn't do anything, and we're obviously here what we couldn't be on our arms when it was actually a demand from the sector. And we have drawn up and approved this decree, with a lot of debate, with a lot of discussion, because here there are many interests, which have not to be coincident, although at the end everyone agrees in the defence of the tourist sector, but, hey!, with many contributions that have been collected; logically not all sectors can think that everything was collected in the decree that was finally approved, but I think that yes with a great consensus, and that is why I have to say it. In the end, each organism has its own opinion. Indeed, the National Markets and Competition Commission made a requirement for the Galician Union. Today your president has been here and I can read exactly what he said, after meeting with the President of the Union: "The meeting with the President has been cordial, as he cannot otherwise be between an independent institution" — so if he decides to make a requirement, he is, as he could not be, in perfect right— and the government of a touristly upward community.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh I think that little to add after this statement by the president himself, who also acknowledged that among all the decrees that correspond to so many autonomous communities with exciting tourist activity that they have decided to regulate this new tourist service is the least restrictive of all. Even so, they consider there are things they don't agree with. They are on their right, of course — I mean: independent body — to make a request for corrections and the Galician Union is in all its right to argue that we believe that what reflects the decree — I insist: after much dialogue with the sector, after collecting and incorporating many allegations — responds to the reality that is given in Galicia. We therefore believe that it does not restrict competition between companies, and that is what we are going to tell this commission. We believe that it is necessary that the definition of tourist housing should be perfectly clear, because that is what the sector was demanding, in order to differentiate the other phenomena of use of tourist dwellings, but not tourist dwellings, which, therefore, have to be defined to know how they can be used...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u213	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u214	...and what things can be done and what can't be done. And I also believe that a number of minimum requirements have been requested, which, I insist, called for a large part of the sector. That is what we are going to tell the Commission and then the Commission will logically have to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u215	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Vice-President, we agree that there is a great demand for the sector to regulate these dwellings, but from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that there has been a lack of dialogue or a little more dialogue with all the associations that provided some gesture for this decree. Nor do we understand that it was just dialogue all, because on the very day that the decree came into force, the Board published an interpretative instruction to try to clear out the most controversial aspects of the decree. So today we have seen that the President of the Commission has been here and that he has met, as you have said, with the President of the Union and that they have been summoned to continue to meet later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u217	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u218	That's right, Mr. Pérez Seco. We cannot expect the Commission to withdraw its demands and considerations because yes, just as the Commission cannot expect it to do the opposite to the Council of Galicia. We're going to try to expose our reasons. I think it's important to make it clear — and she too, and that in a way I thank the opportunity — and to insist that it was a very busy and very spoken decree. I said this in the first intervention: it's impossible, there's never enough dialogue and it's impossible for everyone to agree and, in addition, on a subject like this, where there are interests — I insist — not necessarily coincidentally. There were also agents working in the tourist sector who told us that what we needed to do was not to make any regulation or directly ban this type of tourist-use housing, because they came into competition with other forms of exploitation, another way of exploitation. We said that it was not, that it was a phenomenon that existed and therefore it was necessary to regulate it, and that is why a public information procedure was made, so then it was published after that public information, so that there could be — and indeed, there were — more allegations — and if so many of them were taken into account, there were many meetings of the Galician Tourist Administration with all who wanted that meeting, including an association that might even now be leading the most critical voice, there was also a meeting with them when they were set up. I say, we meet with people who didn't want to have the tourist houses, people who wanted them to exist all along the coast, and, within those who wanted them to exist all along the coast, some who wanted them to be as in the end was in the decree: a single housing considered, and others who said no, that one could rent for rooms, and of all opinions there was and, logically, those who tried to please everyone ends up not contenting anyone. So after listening to everyone, we try to make regulation as objective as possible and as appropriate to the needs in Galicia, because we believe, indeed, that the phenomenon, which is a global phenomenon, like many of those that occur in the tourism world, has specific characteristics in Galicia and therefore have to be regulated by decree. I already say that the easiest thing would be to have done absolutely nothing and now perhaps we wouldn't be talking about the Commission's requirement or what happened in other autonomous communities that also thought it appropriate to do this regulation. So here's what we're looking for is to guarantee security in the use of this tourist resource. The quality of the offer is part of the tourist offer; therefore, it must be regulated to ensure its quality. I think this is of interest to us all: the satisfaction of users, who are the best propagandists for other users to come to make use of resources, of our resources, not to disturb residents — I think it's also important; tourism is very good, but those who live here all year round also have their rights — and to fight intrusion, which I think we all care about. In short, that's all he's been looking for. Not everyone — I say — is satisfied, but I believe that the vast majority, and, frankly, regardless of the Commission's requirement and legal considerations, we believe that we comply with the law and will defend it. Most of the stakeholders in tourism development agree that the decree should be made and that it is a good decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-23-DSPG029.u219	Thank you, Vice President. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
