ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. Let us resume the session with the sixth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for oral answer by the President of the Council of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga, G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the evolution of the status of women in Galicia during the term of office of the current President of the Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u2	Mr. President, Pardo Bazán said over a hundred years ago that if instead of being called Emilia he was Emilio, his life would have been quite different. Of course we've made a lot of progress since that woman's equality, but, no doubt, there's a lot to do as well. I am sure that women will soon win the battle for gender equality, also in the labour market, and also in Galicia, because their push, their determination and their capabilities will lead to all the barriers they have, despite the difficulties and pitfalls, which partly depend on policies, and also on the policies of the Galician Union. Not everything depends on you, I'm not saying that, but the Galician Union has mechanisms and has instruments to break down barriers, to make roofs disappear. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, for the same number of active women, there are approximately 40,000 female jobs less than in 2008. Women demand more jobs by vocation and necessity, to compensate for the loss of income in the home, but they maintain a higher rate of unemployment than men. And half of the unemployed women have been in this situation for more than a year and a half, which needs to be corrected by intensifying the gender gap in employment plans; especially for women under 35, where unemployment is concentrated with greater intensity. And, above all, the Galician Union must act much more decisively and effectively on the conditions of employment. Three out of four part-time jobs are women's jobs. And it's not because they want to, it's because of family care or because they don't offer anything else. It is very important to act on this ground by positively discriminating full-time recruitment in employment plans — something that is not done with sufficient decision-making — and effectively applying the Dependency Act. And both things depend entirely on the Galician Union. Temporality in young women is unacceptablely high, more than 6 out of 10. It is also excessive in the public sector — strategic for women — which fully depends on you, on your autonomy. Setting up a plan to consolidate employment in the public sector to reduce timeliness will greatly benefit young women. And what about the payroll? Women have a disproportionate presence in lower and limit decisions in higher, senior or higher. The gender gap is present throughout the salary scale, and it continues, though attenuated, as long as it takes account of the actual number of hours worked. Greater unemployment, involuntary bias, very high temporality, marked pay gap, which causes an intense breakdown in access to unemployment benefits and on its own — which is, besides, in decline, in recent years — or in women's average pensions, 28% lower than males. Mr President, these figures are not acceptable. He's been ruling for eight years, he can't look elsewhere. How do you plan to correct this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u3	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, I agree with you, Your Honor, that, if instead of Mrs. Emilia Pardo Bazán had been Emilio Pardo Bazán, his life would probably be quite different. But it gives me the feeling that Mrs. Emilia Pardo Bazán's contributions will never be forgotten. And so, Your Honor, I also agree with you that we are a country in which, in our Constitution, there is no doubt and the guarantee of effective equality is a constitutional right. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are in one of the places in the world where equality must not be demanded, equality is a right. And, therefore, equality, which is a constitutional right, sometimes, indeed, of reality. I also agree with you that it is necessary to criticize some of the situations in which women find themselves, but we also need to demand the work and the progress that we have achieved among all of us in recent years. You tell me about the situation and ask me how I feel about the situation of equality from the point of view of women. Look, in my opinion, I would say first of all that in many cases I am concerned about this situation; in other cases I am indigested with that situation. And also, in many other cases, we're going the right way, we're doing things right in the realm of Greek society. Let us think for a moment about the situation of women in different areas. In the political representation, ladies and gentlemen, in the first legislate of this Parliament there were three women. Today 45% of the members of this House are women. In local power, Your Honor, in the first legislate in Galicia there were six mayors, now it's 37. The number of concellers in the Greek municipalities in the first democratic legislates was about 11%, now it's 37%. If you want to keep talking, since I took possession of the board of Galicia, when I arrived at the government, 30% of the women were high office, now it's 41.7%. At the universities, 55% are women who are studying, and 60% of them reach the degree. For example, in the judicial system, most judges and prosecutors in Spain are women: 65% of judges in Spain are women, and 63% of prosecutors in Spain are women. If you tell me if we're satisfied, I'll say no. But you should know — for sure, if you ask me the question, you know — that the salary divide in Galicia is quite below Spanish. You know perfectly well that female unemployment in Galicia is quite below female unemployment in Spain. And so, Mr. Leicega I think it's worth putting into value what we've done and, of course, focusing on what we haven't yet achieved. But, Mr. Leicega, what we have achieved in this last decade in the field of equality is much more than we have achieved in previous decades, sure; among other things, by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u6	Yes, the truth is, I'm not going to criticize your rhetoric on equality. But it seems to me that where we are going to discuss, and where is the focus of the issue, it is in the policies that are being put in place. I believe that the policy of the Galician Union here has shortcomings that need to be corrected, and we need a more active and effective policy on many lands. I've already made some proposals to you about job incentives, but I want to do some more that just stem from the legal framework we have. It takes ten years these days of the Law of Equal Work which had set in motion the government of Emilio Pérez Touriño. His government failed to comply, froze and finally partially integrated into the law passed in 2015. But two years later, there are important parts of that law that are not even developed, such as the German Women's Employment Plan provided for in Article 30, to promote the effective inclusion of women. Occupy Mr. Conde, you didn't have time to put this plan in place two years later, which would have to respond to the obstacles and shortcomings that I have signaled before, which are removed from the official figures with which you accompany the budget project presented this year in the Council of Galicia. They have to correct what we can call the mud floor and the glass bed in the labor market. It's your responsibility, it's not up to anyone but you, it's stipulated in the legislation. The equality plans in companies, as provided for in Articles 65 and 68 of that law, are compulsory for the autonomous administration and its various entities, from the foundations to the autonomous bodies. Depends on the General Secretariat of Equality, in turn dependent on the vice president. They're mandatory, it's been two years. How many are approved? How many are in operation? And if they don't start, they don't have budget allocations or they have decisions. The VI Equality Plan of the Galician Union ended in 2015. It's gone 2016 and it's going on 2017 and it's not replaced by anything else. That is indicative of their government's commitment to equality. You can do a lot more, from micro to macro, you can liberalize the concession of telework, which is a good tool for conciliation. You can do up to three days of telework, and your advisor to Fairy is given back to grant these conditions. But we can also apply a gender perspective from the beginning to the budgets of the Union, as they do in Sweden, Australia, South Korea, Austria or the Berlin region. Doing so, we will be introducing the perspective of gender from the beginning into the heart of what was traditionally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u7	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u8	...a male power, like ministries or, in this case, farm councils. Commitment to equality demands more than rhetoric, demands decisions, resources, programs, equipment. That's what I'm asking you to do, Mr. Noñez Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u9	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u10	Mr. Leicega, the 7th Strategic Plan on Equality, which is the 2017-2020 period, is being approved this month. We are not late, Your Honor, we are in March, we are going to adopt this strategic plan by 2017, by 2020. Of seven strategic plans, five strategic plans approved by the People's Party. [[Applause]] You were in the government for four years. They approved one. Your Honor, about the data you're concerned about and me too: at the rate of activity, the gap between both sexes in Galicia is 9.65%; in Spain, two more points. The female unemployment rate in Galicia is three points below the female unemployment rate in Spain — in Galicia it is 17%, and in Spain it is 20.25%. In last year's unemployment figures recorded in Galicia dropped female unemployment by 8.45 per cent compared to last year; that is, almost 11,000 women less unemployed. Your Honor, that's the data. Of course there's an obvious gap, less than Spanish; of course there's female unemployment, less than the average of Spain. Your Honor, the wages per hour of women, inconceivably, are lower than men by 13%. But it's a better point and a better half than the average of Spain. But the women's hourly pay gap is lower in Galicia than the European Union's average. While Galicia is at 13%, the EU average is 16.7%; Galicia at 13.1%, and the European Union at 16.7%. Your Honor, if you tell me if I'm concerned about working conditions, about wage cracks, the answer is yes. But I think you should value what we're achieving among all of us. All active employment policies have a positive discrimination against women. Since we arrived in the Government, since 2009, 55% of the aid to encourage recruitment has been to use women, 55%. We will continue this way through this legislation until its end, we will continue in 2017 and more intensively. And we're going to continue to put into valuation criteria a higher balance ratio between men and women in their staff paintings in companies as well. We will continue to strengthen business equality plans. Last year we increased the budget by 28%. In 2017, we again increase the budget by 27% in these support. We've had more than 50% increase in two years. And, of course, we'll continue to work with the Labour Inspectorate. Mr Leiceaga, this month of March we are going to pass by decree — and we will become the first autonomous community to approve it — the formation in equality, prevention and fight against the macho violence of all the staff of the Galician Union, the first autonomous community in Spain. [[Applause]] And, ladies and gentlemen, we have drawn up and approved at the Galego Observatory against Gender Violence a protocol of everything, Your Honor, where you are sure they are: the protocol of cooperation and the protocol of institutional coordination against male violence. We're all, there's the State Administration, the Autonomic Administration, the Local Administration, the Administration of Justice, trade union organizations, women's associations, the Galician Radio and Television Company. Mr. Leicega, I'm sure you can always do more, but you'll understand that we're on the right path; and, if you compare ourselves to others, then we're in a better position. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia to curb the backlog in gender equality policies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u12	Good morning. Let me on this 8th March, my first words are to acknowledge all the women who somehow fought against inequality and patriarchy. We must not forget that, if women have the right to vote, to education, if we are in parliaments, if we can decide about our body, it is because there was a feminist movement that defended it. [[Applause]] And feminism is more necessary today than ever. It is more necessary than ever because we still have to listen to speeches like those of one of the most powerful right-wing MEPs who preach impunity that women have to have lower wages because we are weaker, less intelligent and, if they do, we play worse at chess. But still today we have to see how the right hand of Galicia looks the other way before a Mr. Baltar charged with sexual harassment. We could all listen to those tapes, those recordings that he offered public employment in exchange for sexual favors. And there he is, as president of the House of Ourenses and the People's Party. But we still have to listen to paternalist speeches that tell us nothing more and nothing less than to mix politics and equality. Speeches like those you spoke this weekend in an act of the People's Party where you proclaimed to us nothing more and nothing less than politicizing the problems of women, but resolving them, would be a lack of respect. If inequality is not a political problem, what is it for you, a geographic accident, a meteorological phenomenon? Do you know what a disrespect is, Mr. Feijóo? To tell us that inequality is a problem for women, not for society as a whole. Do you think it's a problem for women who violate the principle of equal work, equal pay? We women earn 20% less, and we'd like you to stop looking at those who are worse and start looking at those who are better, because that's how we're going to move on at some point. Is it a problem for women that poverty has a feminine face? His cuts and austerity have increased inequalities, Mr. Feijóo. Do you think it's a problem of women escalating murders, of male violence, that this year 2017 has followed the lives of 21 women in the Spanish state, in two months, Mr. Feijóo? Do you know how many women have been murdered since 2004? Nearly 800 women. As you will understand, in three minutes we can't make diagnosis and put it on the proposed table. But I do want to make a demand today: that I don't finance inequality with public money and that it adds to the non-conformist women that we want to change everything that doesn't work. And I can give you a little more of this proposal. Do not support those who are harassed, stop financing public centres that separate children and children according to their sex, and promise that the Galician Union will terminate contracts with those companies that are in danger of principles of equality, or are convicted of sexual harassment or labour harassment. I hope, Mr. Feijóo, your commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u14	If I believe, Your Honor, in feminism without labels, I don't believe in nationalist feminism, independentist feminism, or reformist feminism. I believe in feminism without labels. Your Honor, the Polish nationalist you mean, you don't believe that. So, being a nationalist and being a feminist is not always compatible, as you can see, Mrs. Pontón, as you can see. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, inequality, indeed, is not a problem for women, inequality is a problem for all. In the same way, when we were asked about our mothers and what they were doing, we put on the school paper "his work." That's over, Your Honor. So, if you don't agree with our proposals, I understand, but you have to admit that the first equality law was driven and passed by a party I represent today in 2004. We were the fourth autonomous community in Spain to bring a law into Parliament. You did not support it — at least you abstained — the Socialist Party voted against it. Your Honor, that is the short story of equality in the legislative field in Galicia. It was a new law, it was the first law that established in Spain the paternity permit, the first law. It's true it was ten days, between eight and ten days if it was a multiple birth or not. Now, the paternity leave is four weeks. But we start here, Your Honor, in Galicia, in this Parliament, humbly; but we have to say so for the rest of Spain and also for the German nationalists. [[Applause]] Your Honor, the first Plan of Action against Gender Violence was adopted in 2002, also by a government of a party to which I belong. Your Honor, that's the story. But the present is that in this course where we are, 2016-2017, there is finally a matter of gender equality. Because many of the problems of inequality are the result that we are not able to train these boys who are forming them into such an elementary question, in such a fundamental right. We have developed the I Action Plan for Equality in Educational Centres, the first in the history of public education in Galicia, the first equality plan in educational education 2016-2020. In the wake of the work placement of women victims of macho violence, we are helping social initiative entities, and 544 women who have suffered the violence of macho violence have been helped in that drama. The economic independence of women victims of gender violence is guaranteed in a law a few months ago, in July 2016 — by the way, between the People's Party and the Galego Nationalist Block. We applied it, Your Honor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The laws in Galicia apply, not in other autonomous communities, and you agree, but here we apply the laws, Your Honor. [[Applause]] That is why we must continue to do what we have to do, Your Honor, is that VII Strategy Plan of Galicia for Equal Opportunities, 2017-2020; equality in education and values, equality in the management of jobs and times, equality in employment and innovation, equality in participation and leadership, equality in quality of life, equality, awareness and prevention, equality and intervention and integration. Mrs Pontón, if we agree with what we are going to take to the Senate tomorrow — the Vice-President of the Government on behalf of the House — do you not find it more appropriate to follow the agreements than to break the agreements? We are not going to break any agreement by this Parliament on equality. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, I would begin by asking you to withdraw that the Galician Nationalist Block has any connection with the extreme right, because it is a lie, a disrespect and a defamation I ask you, Mr. Feijóo, to withdraw it, I ask you to withdraw it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Galician Nationalist Block is a left-wing force that has nothing to do with either the right, the middle or the far right, and therefore I ask you to pull it out. [[Applause]] Secondly, I, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, do not act like some of your fellow Members who want to share flesh and believe us in order to speak or not about feminism. I don't know how you understand feminism. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] I don't know why they're bothering us to talk. I don't know what kind of feminism you understand without labels. For you, unlabeled feminism is what funds centers that segregate children? Is feminism without labels what finances with equal money religious congregations? Unlabeled feminism is what tells women that we have to ask permission to decide about our body and motherhood? Is that your feminism? Because those are the People's Party's proposals. So, Mr. Feijóo, don't defame the meaning of feminism, and above all, don't try to distort what your sense is or now want to tell us that you are the most adalid. In any case, I made very specific proposals. You tell me about the past. We have very concrete proposals. Look, you have on the table the opportunity to show us that Galician Union has a clear commitment to equality. I'm going to tell you a case of a real woman in this country, her name is Inhi. There he was a bus driver, he had a girl with a lot of problems, and when he asked his company to exercise the rights of conciliation, you know what they told him? That she had gone home to look after her child and that when she returned she would have a job. He had to claim judicially that he could exercise recognized rights. That company, Mr. Feijóo, has a public concession. And it was made that paradoxes of fate: it turns out that they gave him that concession for having an equality plan. Are you going to do something or will you just disqualify and insult the opposition? You have a chance to do something useful because there are a lot of Nellis in this country who don't see an administration that shoots and accompanies them when they suffer from discrimination and harassment. I don't know if you know what it means to suffer harassment and discrimination at work. But I'll tell you more. He told us about gender-based violence, and I don't know if you can tell me, Mr. Feijóo, whether the aid of the well-known freedom wage is already working. There was a commitment that that order would be in force no longer to approve the budgets of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u18	Please tell me that DOG is published that help. Today, women in Galicia can't claim the salary of freedom, I ask you to stop funding the centres that separate children and children.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u19	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u20	And I ask you, please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u22	...who uses the resources, who enforces them and who doesn't come here bragging about their breaches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Feminism without labels is to constitute the Galego Council of Women for the first time in 2014. Feminism without labels is the non-Sexist Advisory Commission on Advertising, for the first time in the autonomous community in 2014. Feminism without labels is to approve the Women's and Science Program between 2016 and 2020. Feminism without labels is to approve the I Greek Plan of equality in the educational field, the I Greek Plan of equality in the educational field. Feminism without labels is to invest more than the Bipartite. Yes, Your Honor, yes, Your Honor, 30% more relative terms than the Bipartite 30% more than the Bipartite, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] 30% more than the Bipartite, but, as I once told the spokesman of En Marea, in Aragon, the 0.06; in Valencia, the 0.08; in Galicia, the double, the double, the lordship, the double that in Valencia, for example. Feminism without labels is that, for the first time in the autonomous community, there is a "conciliatory good", which did not exist with the Bipartite, with 2,400 families benefited. Feminism without labels is that for the first time in Galicia there is the "good care", which did not exist in the Bipartite, with 3,000 beneficiary families. In rural feminism without labels is to put nesting houses where there's no capacity to put infantry schools because children are three, four or five; in villages we also have unlabeled feminism, Mrs. Pontón. Feminism without labels is to create infantry schools in industrial polygons. [[Applause]] Feminism without labels is to increase in times of economic recession, in times of economic crisis, 75% of the squares of children's schools. That's the feminism I mean, Your Honor. Including feminism, all of us, feminism without ideology, feminism without blaming others exactly of a social problem that affects society as a whole. Look, Your Honor, would you like to leave without effect the educational concerts that have kept the Bipartite throughout his term of office? Are those concerts when the Bipartite -- you guys -- kept them right and now, by doing what you did, aren't they? Look, Your Honor, there will never be real equality as there is only one case of macho violence. In fact, equality is also a matter of respect. Let's start by respecting ourselves here, Mrs. Pontón. Certain accusations, certain disqualifications and certain complaints were not absolutely necessary. And so equality isn't a question of bias, it's a question of principles, it's a question of values, it's a matter of commitments. Your Honor, let's work for equality without words and without divisions. That's our proposal. Mrs. Pontón, if you want to work for equality without words and without divisions, let's continue in the agreement for equality. I'm telling you, Your Honor, tomorrow the vice president of the Senate comes to the Senate to ascertain the scope and content of all the measures we have agreed on here to be included in the anti-violence pact. You don't even agree with your proposals? Mrs. Pontón, we're used to that, but we thought there was a little unity in the BNG. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the measures developed by the Galician Council to ensure that men are actively involved in equality
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u26	Question by Don Luis Villares Naveira, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr President. Speaking of labels and seeing them with their purple ties, I'm still curious to know that so remains Baltar the bond in the suit, that so remains Baltar the bond in his macho and male political suit. It will not fail to be surprising to see today dressed watching acts for equality... [...] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u28	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u29	I'm sorry, that word won't be recorded in the Journal of Sessions. I told you who told her. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not going to be in the session log. Go on, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u30	The first question is, without women, the world doesn't work. And this is obvious. It's obvious but it seems that for many and for many it's still today, because, as you've already spoken here, there's a 22% wage gap between women and men in Galicia. So having a fundamental role in our society -- and it will also be in two hours here, when a woman's unemployment occurs and if institutions don't work without women -- it will be demonstrated again, also in everyday life, that the world doesn't work without women. And yet they continue to receive unfair treatment of 22% less pay. First of all, we would like to know what concrete measures of inspection have been taken in this regard, because the proclamation of formal equality has been made for more than forty years but not material equality. We would also like to know what specific awareness-raising measures in the field of the company are to end this situation, measures against inequality directed at the male population and to those who have positions of leadership of a male character, to actually function in this direction, not to end that wage gap. Second, exercise as a father is not a right, it is a duty. Patrice authority is a function in which there is a right and a duty. He has the right to be accompanied by his progenitors, also by his male progenitor. And it's a duty for the father to exercise custody and keep his son in his company. However, in Galicia in 2016 maternity permits were taken by 97% of women compared to 2.5% of men. Equally, child care surpluses were taken by 91% of women versus 9% of men. In other words, in Galicia men keep working to take care of their children. We would like to know, in that sense, that he made the Government of Greece to raise men's awareness of co-responsibility and make them the ones who carry out these functions. There are also governments of men who do not adequately protect women. The Ministry of the Interior and, where appropriate, the Interior Council also work on some death forecasts for gender-based violence every year. In 2014, the Ministry of the Interior of the People's Party worked on 30 women victims of violence and there were 57 women. In 2015 he worked about 30 and there was 43. In 2016 he worked about 30 and there was 53, 63% more than the government forecast. In 2017 -- it's finished -- it's been working on 30 and we've been 20 years. And this seems absolutely outrageous to us, it's something that provokes indignation, because women are dying over the possibilities provided by the Government, and that can't be. And do you know how many troops have increased the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, and what corresponds to the Galician autonomic police, in terms of gender, the number of surveillance and protection troops of victims of violence? Zero — official data from the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u32	This is what we're outraged. But there's also a glass jungle. It's not a glass ceiling, it's a crystal jungle, a real institutional building where only 2.5 percent of the female occupied population occupies positions of management in companies, where only 20 percent of women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u34	...they're professors, where only 25% of women run research teams and where less than 10% of women are in the upper organs of state magistracy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u35	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u36	What did the German Government do to raise awareness of the men that this situation must be resolved? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u37	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, on Sunday, not any Member but the deputy spokesperson of his group did demonstrations on his Twitter account. And as for the President of the House, I'm not going to read them. You'll understand that it doesn't make much sense to expand your answer. He has nothing to do with this group, this group or this government. Those statements are entrepreneurship, Mr. Villares. Sometimes politicians make unforgivable mistakes. When that happens, we have to immediately apologize. I come here to speak in the name of the majority group and of this government, and of the majority of the population that it represents, and to ask you, in the name of the Tides, to apologize. All I'm trying to do is to apologize. Excuse me, Mr. Villares, and we keep talking. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u39	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u40	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Villares' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u41	Mr. President, this is a good technique for circumventing your duties as President of the Union and coming here to explain. Their constitutional and statutory function is to come here and answer the opposition questions. [[Applause]] In a few years' time, you'll have a chance to be in the opposition, asking the questions. But so far we ask the questions, and you are the one who has an obligation to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u42	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u43	It's a constitutional and statutory obligation first, that's first. Secondly, you wouldn't want me, as a man, to tell a woman what to do, would you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u44	Silence! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u45	He says that I should only correct a woman if she says that she is barbaristic. No, no, there's older people here and there's no need to apologize.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u46	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u47	On the other hand, we respect, I respect you, that you are outraged by a grammatical error. I respect that. [[Murmurs.]] Now, to the En Marea group, what the outrage is that women die at the hands of men, that there are policies that are not enough to end inequality and, above all, the situation of inequality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u48	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u49	...structural that lives our society. That is what is outraged by the Members of the House and by the Members of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u50	Quiet, please. Mr. Peace, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u51	Silence for you too. Silence to the whole House and respect who is in the use of the word. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence, Mr. Sánchez, I am not in dialogue with you. Mr. Sánchez, I'll call you in order, Mr. Sánchez. No, because I'm not talking to you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Let's respect whoever's in the use of the word. Mr. Villares is in use of the word. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u52	Despite attempts to circumvent their government responsibilities, there is only one feminism, indeed: what is practiced. And I'm going to give you two examples, budget feminism and political feminism. Budgetary feminism means that actions for equality and protection of women fell from 2009 to 30%; those for reconciling working life, 70%; for endowment of work equality, disappearance; for the Law on equal work, disappearance. Overall, and you've already discounted those games that you've planned, the budget drop in this matter was 40%. They have the data at their disposal on the En Marea website. Second question, political feminism. The PP keeps men in their ranks who don't love women. He keeps a man in his ranks who put a price on a woman. [[Murmurs.]] Is it acceptable for a politician to price a woman and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u53	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u54	...who uses a woman's body to obtain sexual favors in exchange for public work? The question is: politically, does a feminist policy seem to you to hold a public office in these conditions?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u55	Finish it, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u56	I'm done with the question. The question is double, the first question is: how much money did the Government spend on raising awareness of Baltar to convince him that what he did was wrong?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u57	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u58	And a second question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u59	It's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u60	In case you don't think that what Baltar did is wrong, the question is another: how much did Baltar spend on convincing you that what he did is right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u61	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u62	Your Honor, within the powers of the President of the Union is to ensure the dignity of the people to whom he represents. And that's why, Mr. Villares, you're confused. I understand your difficulties. I've been in the opposition, too, Mr. Villares. But sometimes we have to disagree with political training, even with political training that at the moment makes you talk in this Parliament. He says you're not capable of reprimanding or apologizing to a member of your group. Why, Mr. Villares? Believe me why. I know you're not the one to be named as a spokesman, but at least in Parliament you're acting like that. He exercises as such, Your Honor, as spokesman of that parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u63	Mr. Sánchez, I call you by order. Now yes, I call him in order. You're interrupting constantly. I'll call you in order. No, don't forgive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u64	Mr. Villares, I understand your limits, but I didn't know they were so limited. I, of course, don't intend to teach anyone any lessons, but I won't admit lessons from anyone either, Your Honor. Far less than any obvious evidence that you have much to correct than you do. I quote. To a journalist's question, his leader answers — literally — "Good coat of leather you have." And if that wasn't enough, another journalist said, "The roof would be bloody." And if this isn't enough, a party companion -- yes, another party block -- to Mrs. Rita Maestre, says, "For lustful looks, Rita, the ones you wake up where you go." [[Applause]] These are your background, Mr. Leicega. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You will understand that admitting lessons from your group is impossible. [[Murmurs.]] Sorry, Mr. Leicea, I apologize and formally correct, because there is still a lot of difference between Mr. Leiceaga and the Tides of Podemos, there is a lot of difference, Your Honor, a lot of difference. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] As you can see, Your Honor, it's quite easy to apologize. When you're wrong, just apologize. I understand, Your Honor, that there are differences of opinion in your political party. Rita Maestre considers that We can be a macho party, and Mr Errejón said, in the document of his candidacy: "Keep selecting men" — Mr Iglesias — "for the most relevant positions". That's right, you sent him to the pole. Look, Mr. Villares, I insist, I will not teach, nor will I deny problems in any political formation. But what I'm telling you is that, when you want to be serious about equality, when you want to be serious about eliminating macho behaviors, when you want to be serious about engaging the whole society in this fight, when you want to be serious about encouraging equality from the educational field, here we will be. But, Mr. Villares, no lessons. And unfortunately, from this control session, authority within your group, none. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u66	I'm going to read an institutional statement that brings the groups to me, which corresponds to March 8th, International Women's Day. I invite all present to listen to her. 113 years have passed since March 8, 1904, in which 129 women locked up to improve their working conditions were carbonized, killed by their boss in a fire at the factory where they worked. Since then, the struggle between women and the feminist movement has led to much progress, but these advances are still insufficient. We therefore demand the International Women's Day to focus on the inequalities that persist and the need for equality to be part of the political agenda in Galicia. Despite the universal character of the right to equality, there are still many women who cannot exercise their fundamental rights as human beings. Many continue to suffer all kinds of slavery and discrimination. We mustn't look elsewhere, this is a struggle of all of us. In the sphere of our society, and in spite of the fact that equality is already a legally recognized right, there is still much to do. Labour and family reconciliation, the co-responsibility of men in care, women's entrepreneurship, rationalization of hours, the struggle for non-discrimination, equality of work, empowerment, equal pay, awareness of children and minors, children and adolescents, equal education, the fight against trafficking and sexual exploitation, as well as all forms of male violence, cause us to continue to work and work from all institutions and social areas to achieve real and effective equality. The legislative changes adopted in recent years have been steps forward in the fight against violence against women, but insufficient to eradicate all forms of violence and discrimination against women. This Parliament therefore commits itself to listening to civil society and to examining all possibilities of improving above all that it is failing. It is urgent to move forward at the disposal of the necessary legal, assistance, economic and protection resources to try to end this social problem. Even so, talking about equality is undoubtedly about girls, the most vulnerable sector on the planet, because they suffer discrimination by sex and age, and they are victims of violations of their rights. In this sense, the Galician Parliament is in line with the initiative of the struggle to achieve the realization of the rights of girls and women and the advancement of gender equality with the ambition that over the next five years, and in line with the envisaged goals of sustainable development of the United Nations, 100 million girls are able to learn, lead, decide, prosper and participate in the design of public policies that affect their lives. The Galician Parliament also wants to show its support for organised civil society in the defence of equality, which is the driving force behind the progress of society towards equality between men and women, as happened with the day we are commemorating today. Today, on March 8, 2017, when the International Women's Day is celebrated, the Galician Parliament proclaims its commitment to equality and to the denunciation of any individual or collective action that prevents its materialization, because the fight against the inequality of half the population is a fundamental element for the achievement of a more just society." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u67	As was reported yesterday, we now went on to substance a question for the Government's oral response. Question by Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assistance of a person disabled in the exercise of public office at the meeting held by the territorial delegate of the Council of Galicia in Ourense with the mayor of Melón at the official headquarters of that delegation to deal with institutional matters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u68	You have the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u69	Thank you very much, President. Listening to the reply the president of the board gave today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u70	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There must be more silence in the room. Please be quiet. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u71	Thank you very much, President. Listening to the reply that the President of the Board gave today, I remember a phrase of which was also a very great ideology—why not say so?—, Mafalda: "We have men of principle, pity that they never pass from the beginning." And maybe that's what happened here today. But we're going to the subject. This scene -- we're calling it that -- this picture, I'm going to explain, in case there's someone who doesn't know the characters of this image -- I understand you, Mr. Vice-President, yes. This one that's here is the territorial delegate of the board in Ourense. This, the current mayor of Melón. And this one who is here, the former mayor of Melón, the mayor's husband, see if I'm not read out, disabled to hold public office until the year 2021, sentenced with firm judgment for prevarication. Well, they're not in a coffee shop, the location is the Territorial Delegation of Galician Union in Ourense, located on Havana Avenue. If this looks like a Berlin movie, they wait to hear the explanation that gave each of these characters to this picture. And I want to point out that the photojournalist didn't catch them. No, the deputy of the board called the media to report on a meeting he had with the mayor of Melon. And what was the surprise of the journalists who were there that the former mayor, this person who is disabled, sat on the table with his booklet, with his notes, talking about the problems and possible solutions of Melón's council, as if he were still mayor; that is, a mayor in the shade. The former mayor of Melón said, "Well, I went to greet Marisol, to see how the PP Congress is doing. Is there any man who orders his lady, please pay attention, precisely this day? If so, let them present me and give me lessons." Explanations from the Galician Council delegate: "I thought it was violent to throw Pardellas out of my office, I didn't notice that I was disabled or that I was former mayor of Melón. I can't stop you from entering this gentleman. Next time what I'm going to do is to be more careful with the media, which are really the culprits." I'd run the Melon Town Hall: "Mr. Pardellas continues to care for people from his mayor's office, and makes decisions in the Town Hall, even if it's indirect." This is not a partisan opinion, it's an opinion of an official of the Town Hall. The truth is that Mr. Pardellas took the phone, which in March 2016 he visited with Mrs. Pastor the monastery of Melón. And since you were saying, Mr. Rueda, when you were asked about this matter, you didn't know what it was, today we want to ask you if you already know and what valuation it does about it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u72	Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u73	Thank you, President. Mrs. Blanco, paraphrasing Mafalda, since she is one of her ideologies, said, "The problem is that we are few and we know each other a lot." And you're getting to know her pretty well. Look, the first thing that happens to me for this answer is a reflection. There are so many things, and when I say so many things about justice, about emergencies and civil protection, about relations with the municipalities in their broadest sense, about transparency, about the modernization of public administration, I also talk about relations with Parliament, about relations with Portugal, about relations with the European Union, about cooperation for development, about the formation of public employees, I talk about equality and the fight against gender violence — today more than ever — and I talk about the things that occupy the day-to-day affairs of the Vice-President of the Council of Galicia, and it turns out that you, on your parliamentary right, of course, ask a question — and I am here today to answer it — to ask myself why the former mayor of Melón asked for an interview by the mayor of Melon with the Austrian territorial delegate to talk about issues related to the Administration of Galicia and actions in the Melon Town Council. Look, the first reflection, and it's already part of the answer — I'm telling you not to tell me I'm not answering what I'm asking, is that the things that Vice President does in Ourense province, related to the Ourense Delegation, so that you'll be the first time you come to ask me for something, having the powers that the Vice President has! How good we do things in Ourense province, Mrs. Noela, so that this is the most urgent thing that causes you, in a long time, to ask me a question! [[Applause]] Look, it's not a hard question to answer, I honestly think so. First, because the territorial delegate himself gave the explanations. And I subscribe to the territorial delegate's explanations, which he had no doubt about, first of all. And secondly, look, because I tell you, with all the respect you deserve, of course, as a parliamentarian, that between the powers of the Vice-Presidentship of the Galician Council is not controlling on-site anyone who attends every official meeting that is held in an office. [[Murmurs.]] Look, if the mayor of Melón thought he had to be accompanied by the former mayor of Melón, I think that, first, personal courtesy and then institutional respect advise — at that time at the time of the interview — to respect this decision of the mayor of Melón, and perhaps when the Council of Galicia fully trusts the criterion and not know how to make the territorial delegate of Ourense. Yes, I understand that, seeing what happens to you all the time, it's hard for you to understand that a workmate, a political companion, can do things right and doesn't deserve disqualifications, which is what we're seeing among you every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u74	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Blanco's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u75	Thank you very much, President. With all my respect to you too, Mr. Vice-President, I would like to quote Mafalda again: "Acknowledging that you are wrong is the Harakiri of pride." [[Applause]] Today you had the possibility to rectify, you had the possibility to amend a very serious mistake, Mr Vice-President, because — since the President earlier also mentioned famous Machist phrases of politicians, I also want to do one — except that you think as Mr. Castelao Bragaña, that the laws are, like women, to violate them, I understand that you will not at any time support a firm judicial ruling. Because that's part of your department. Moreover, I will tell you that this group, the Socialist Group and this honourable Member, are asking what they want, Mr Vice-President. You're not coming here to tell us. [[Applause]] When you're in the opposition, you might ask a socialist president what he wants, too. Meanwhile, what you have to do is answer, and answer with as much clarity as possible. This is not the first time this has happened, Mr. Vice-President. Look, not only with the mayor of Melón, they have the wonderful habit of continuing to move the threads despite the fact that justice puts them out of political life. With the mayor of Rairiz de Veiga — unfortunately, another woman placed as mayor, another woman who is treated and perfectly able to exercise her position without need of having a man moving the threads behind him, Mr. Vice-President — the mayor's meeting with the Social Policy Counsellor in Santiago, and it is not the first time that they did not. With Mr Bárcenas — to see if he remembers — that person, that grouchomarxist speper — to follow with films — of the deferred compensation, the contracting part of the first part of Mrs Cospedal, of the Gürtel, that person. They did it again: this person has been exercising since April 2010 until December 2012. And I recommend another film to you: The man on the thousand faces, from Basel, highly recommended for all members of the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Vice-President's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u77	Yes. Mrs. Blanco, it is clear that you can ask what you want, but serve us -- and forgive me for telling you -- to see your priorities and your arguments, because if you really had written as part of your reply to me about the Bárcens when you're asking me for a visit to the Delegation of Ourense, you mean what arguments you have very few, very few, very few. And not even the two and a half minutes you've got to talk to you about the subject you're asking me. [[Applause]] Yes, you can ask me exactly what you want. Look, let's move on with Mafalda, which you started. He says, "If instead of planning, we'd fly a little higher than we'd go." But you want to plan. [[Laughter]] And we're gonna keep planning. [[Applause]] It's just that it's hard to answer anything else, it's hard to take a distance, and you've chosen the day besides to ask this question. Of course, you can choose the question you want and you can choose the day you want to make it -- I suppose -- the Women's Day, the Day of Equality, the day of break, the day of cracking at once with the accents. You just said here a woman in the mayor's position... you're talking... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u78	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u79	You're talking about an interview asked by the mayor of Melón, and it turns out that he didn't, and in his question, accompanied the former mayor of Melón to an interview; the mayor, who asked her, as if she were a friend who accompanied him. The interview was requested by the mayor of Melón, so it was granted. And the delegate too. You too, in your formulation and in the statements that were made at the end of this visit, speak of it as if you were a woman who has to obey a man's orders, who tells you that you have to receive it, who has no criterion, who does not know what to do and who is even - you said - of an accomplice in contempt of justice. That is also the capacity and recognition that gives to the functions of a woman who is exercising — and I say it in the best way possible — the full satisfaction of the Galician board of directors of Ourense. You said that you were making a disregard for justice. Look, in these approaches -- and I'm sorry to say it to you but I'm really sorry, I have to say it -- more on today's full of nuisances that you do, the day you end up with these topics -- you're talking about no respect for an elected mayor twice for the absolute majority. Yes, in their own language, the mayors are placed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u80	Quiet. Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u81	...the people who choose them with most absolute are fools because, in fact,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u82	Quiet, Mrs. White. You've had your turn. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u83	...the mayors are placed. You're talking about a delegate who strives every day to do his best. So this is what happened, and this is the opinion that you ask -- I insist -- by showing your priorities and concepts about the position of women, that is what the Council of Galicia thinks. I understand that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u84	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u85	...that these days are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u86	Quiet, quiet. Mrs. White, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u87	...with that yenka in Lugo, without going any further: one day we'll throw it, then we'll bring it back, then we'll bring it back, and now we'll see if they throw it again. And I understand that these things are hard for you to understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u89	And to think that people, party mates, can't be talking in an office without having to discuss and disqualify, it turns out to me very hard to understand.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u91	What I don't understand is that you don't have a little respect for two women who are doing their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u92	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out for the development in Galicia of the Royal Decree 575/2014, so the regulatory bases for aid for the economic impulse of coal mining districts are established, through the development of infrastructure projects and restoration of degraded areas due to mining activity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u93	We continue with point 4 of the agenda, which is that of non-law proposals, and we are now debating that of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo. This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u94	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. "Today, on Women's International Day, my memory is for my neighbors, family and friends, the women of the Encrobas. Women, wives, mothers, caregivers and peasants who that cold morning of February 1977, armed with their umbrellas and their own bodies, stood on the first line of resistance facing decisively the Civil Guard's fight, protagonists because they defended their lands, their homes and their lives. [[Applause]] The men's work in the mine became the fundamental base of domestic economies and gained prestige and recognition, representing for them an opportunity, a great improvement in the economic and labor conditions they had in agriculture. They, fighters, defenders, breeders, peasants, they didn't have the same right. They had the same abilities but not the same opportunities. For the women of the Encrobas, for all the women of the Encrobas who were and are in our country. Thank you very much." [[Applause]] Today, the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings here a non-law proposal to ask the Government of the Galician Union what actions have been made since the publication of the Royal Decree 675/2014 on 7 August 2014 so that the regulatory bases for aid for the economic impulse of coal mining communities are established, through the development of infrastructure projects and restoration projects in degraded areas because of mining activity. As you know, in our country there are two mining districts: The Bridges of García Rodríguez and Cerceda and its contours, respectively. Miner funds are the result of a partnership signed between the Government of Spain and the most representative trade union organizations in the coal sector to develop since 1997 the Coal Mining Plan and alternative development of mining districts, in order to promote the future of these regions and mining cocas through an integrated economic development project, business support for employment generation and infrastructures to stimulate economic growth and competitiveness in areas without a fundamental resource for their own economic and social development. These funds have been committed in two phases: 1997-2005 and 2006-2016. In the Autonomous Community, the Bureau for the Development of the Coal Plan was formed, and it was composed of the Directorate-General for Industry, Energy and Mines, Workers' Commissions, UXT, the Research Council and the Town Hall of Bridges. The funds were allocated by the State through the Institute for the Restructuring of Mining and Coal and Alternative Development of the Mining Territories, and were supplemented by 25% by the Galician Union. The Bureau had several competences: among them, it approved the distribution of resources, approved for business support and for the development of infrastructure. In the particular case of the infrastructures they were approved by the Bureau and the municipalities drafted the project they sent to the State. The State prepared and processed the corresponding specific partnership agreement and subsequently signed by the Union and, if so, by the corresponding municipality. The Government of Mariano Rajoy no longer takes possession, in its first Council of Ministers, on 30 December 2011, made the unilateral decision to eliminate the so-called Miner funds, without taking into account the accounts already recorded in the budgets corresponding to previous years. Therefore, the state's general budgets for 2012 represented a drastic reduction in both scholarships and business aid, and in the case of infrastructures, the reduction was 100 percent, i.e. zero euros in 2012 budgets, and — as I said before — without taking into account the funding already committed. The Bureau for the Development of the Greek Community Coal Plan met for the last time on February 29, 2012 and unanimously adopted the following agreements in point 2, "Actions of infrastructure pending to agree with the Institute, analysis of the situation and decision-making". At this point, an overview was made of the situation of the actions of the infrastructures that were included in the 2006-2012 Coal Plan and a general analysis was made of the infrastructures that were executed, the ones that were running, the pending arrangements and the amounts collected in the collaboration protocols of 24 July 2006. After this presentation, the President of the Bureau, who was and is still the same person, the Director General of Industry, proposed to prioritize the actions that they had already planned to agree with the Institute for each of the municipalities, in order to execute them as they might be able to have budgetary facilities. And in point 3, "Rocks and questions", the Bureau also unanimously approved a text to support the continuity of the current Coal Plan and the inclusion of Galicia in the negotiation of future plans to be agreed. In the Annex the state of the infrastructure was presented: executed there were 18,593,000 euros and running 6,272,000 euros; pending arrangements but with agreement 55,355,000 euros; and pending inclusion in the protocol 16,637,000 euros. Therefore, the total approved, committed and unfunded pending infrastructure works for these two districts amounted to EUR 71,992,500. In March 2013, the Councils of Cerceda and Les Pontes, after several unsuccessful attempts to speak to the Institute, essentially with the Institute, where we even cut off the phone, and several conversations that took place with the Directorate General of Industry, Energy and Mines, which is true if they were put, but we had no information. The municipalities then decided to send a letter to the Ministry, the Institute itself, requesting information on the current situation of all and each of the conventions submitted by the Bureau. It was requested to enable additional funds for Plan Miner, in order to finance previous annual projects to be implemented, and information on how investments in infrastructures corresponding to the 2012 financial year were to be recovered and materialized, as I said earlier, EUR zero. On 28 October 2013, a judgment by the Central Court of the Dispute Tribunal No. 4 confirmed that this measure of Rajoy's Executive was illegal, a violation of the constitutional mandate and democratic principles, the territorial solidarity was observed, the loyalty between administrations was not respected, and even the legal security was obvious by the Government. Today we continue without having a single news, either orally or in writing, about the situation in question, to finish the works started with budgets for this plan. In 2014, on 6 August, the BOE issued a new Royal Decree, 675/2014, establishing regulatory bases for aid for the economic impulse of these coal mining districts. The Royal Decree establishes in its own explanatory statement that the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism has agreed with trade union and business organisations the framework for action for coal mining and mining districts, in this case for the period 2013-2018, and the need to include measures to alleviate the social and regional consequences of mine closure. It also establishes and regulates the granting of aid aimed at promoting the alternative development of coal mining comarcas, and, inter alia, for the execution of annual or multiannual infrastructure projects, which will be financed from the Institute's budgetary appropriations. Sets the geographic scope for these tooltips as well. Article 4 provides that specific actions may be taken in the municipalities affected by coal mining in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, as detailed in Annex II. Sixteen Greek municipalities are detailed. And it is also said that a co-operation commission will be set up between the Institute for the Restructuring of Coal Mining and Alternative Development of the Mining Territories and the Autonomous Community of Greece, which will meet regularly once a year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u97	So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u98	It's over in 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u99	Oh, it's past? I thought I was still staying, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u100	It's past. That's why I told you it's been in 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u101	The questions are the negotiations I've made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u102	I know them. Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, would you like to speak to any of your Members? [[Refusal.]] Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u103	Well, after checking that there is once again a different race depending on which bench you sit and that one is called upon to do the job the president should do, which is to prevent the members of the People's Party from offending our bench, still above...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u104	No, don't go that way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u105	...just give me a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u106	It's not going that way. We're going to have the debate normally.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u107	I demand, Mr. President, an equal treatment here too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u108	I'm trying to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u109	Well, he's not doing it successfully.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u110	Well, it'll be your feeling, but I think I do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u111	He's not doing it successfully because he's very permissive on this right side...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u112	I'm sorry for your misperception. Go ahead, get on with it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u113	...and very little on this left side. Yes, because I hear, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u114	Me too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u115	And it's not the first time. Well, we're going to support this initiative, though, surely we have a different idea of what these aids should be for these areas called mines, which are no longer; that they were, but still have thermal power plants. We started that Galicia is above the state average greenhouse gas emissions by about ten points. And that's mainly because of the weight of the thermals in this field; it's also the translation of our greatest electrical production with regard to the state. These greenhouse gases also produce effects in the country, accompanied by pollutant emissions of other elements that do not have, that are not measured for the effects of climate change, but that have effects on our country. So we support this paralysing of the transfer of funds that are funded to 75% of the state, which is most profound in the police in Galicia, in the theft of Galicia. I mean, these funds come to compensate for the impacts that mining produces, which we believe must internalize into the costs of private companies that have great benefits, but that, if not, we demand these compensatory funds, that is, many of the impacts that produce thermal power plants have to pay them all. But by paralyzing over all these years the transfer of 75% of central government funds, because what we're doing is that the impacts in Galicia are not compensated. So we support in that direction. But what we believe is that these funds should serve so that in the areas of Cerceda and the surrounding areas and the Bridges start to work already in an energy transition. If we have to believe even the words of the environmental advisor, here we're going to decarbonization and we're going to make a strategy for the fight against climate change. Well, if thermal power stations represent 28% or 30% of greenhouse gas emissions, we'll have to have a plan. When plans are being made in the world for the reduction of coal-based production and replacement for renewable energies, we believe that in Galicia, that we have enormous potential to do so, we must do so, and we must anticipate ourselves, not wait for business decisions to be made on the basis that, for example, at some point the price of imported coal is rising and that suddenly we have some comarcas where there is a serious social and labor crisis. We believe that the road must begin now, we must use these plans or similar, but better crafted, to diversify the economy, to create opportunities for work in other sectors. We believe that in renewables, but also in other types of activities, so that in the future there is no such risk that happens in Asturias and León mining communities, which produce a real catastrophe once private companies make their decisions. We believe that regardless of what is done with this decree, the period ends by 2018, the Galician Union should carry out — and it does not — in coordination with all administrations a plan for the energy transition of these districts. It's crucial, because, even if we say we support the initiative, we believe that the funds that were applied here in earlier years of Plan Miner, etc., would have been much more successful if there was a country project. We know a lot of business initiatives made and financed by these funds that didn't prosper because they weren't framed in a country project. Many initiatives in the Renewable Enterprise Bridges that have been overshadowed by Mr Feijóo's energy policies, the paralysis of the wind sector, etc. If in all this there is a plan involving the Council, the Council and the State, we believe it will be much more successful, and that is why we support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u116	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Members of the Group of the People's Party continue to await apologies for the accusations made against all members of the People's Party. [[Applause]] As we have just heard from your honourable Member, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is presenting a four-point GNP, which I would like to address so as to be able to clarify in this way each of the points which it presents this non-legislative proposal. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, as you know, today, in Galicia, there is no coal mining; not only are the mine closure and abandonment plans approved and implemented, including restoration plans, but the mine-dominate land is also lacking. You ruled in the years when the 2006-2012 Coal Plan began, and they didn't know or wanted to take advantage of mine funds. They don't want to do what they haven't done since the opposition. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, what did they do for the mining councils during the time they ruled? Nothing. Well, actually, if they did one thing, from twenty projects offered by the Coal Plan, they reduced them to five. They did it in a collaborative protocol that they signed on 24 July 2006 between the Secretary General of Energy and the Innovation and Industry Advisor for that time. Maybe you didn't find out, because it's known that communication with your partners wasn't exactly flowing. But the Bipartite reduced to the fourth part the possibilities offered by the Coal Plan for Galicia. And besides, sir, I must remind you that in order to make an amendment, it was necessary to intervene in the Regional Coal Bureau, along with the Sub-Commission on Monitoring and Reactivation. Your Honor, this subcommittee has never been constituted. Why? Because the government of the Bipartite had no interest. And from that moment on, the legal force to claim what you want has faded. Your Honor, they left on paper eligible projects, projects agreed by sector organizations to sign such a protocol; they did not build clear projects and lost one year of work since the protocol was signed on 24 June 2006, to the signature of the first specific convention, on 10 May 2007. Yes, Your Honor, they spent a year in the mining town halls, a year!, to end up recovering only four projects from the initial Coal Plan. At the fourth point of its initiative, the Socialist Group urges the German Government to seek funding from the central government. But, Your Honor, the specific agreements of the Autonomous Community of Greece are already paid, and you cannot claim judicially because we do not have any new specific agreements. The comparison between the bipartite legislatedness and the first legislatedness of the current Government is demolition. When you ruled, you were able to sign only two specific conventions and one supplement; however, between 2009 and 2012, the Government of Greece signed a second and a third complementary agreement, and 13 specific infrastructure agreements were signed and implemented, which went on to list some of them: expansion of the industrial policy of Acebedo, sewage treatment station in Cerceda, a jeriatric center, improvements at the drinking water treatment station in Cerceda, river tour, Mining Museum, station shelter and many more. Two agreements were signed for the drafting of projects that were executed, and two additional agreements were signed. The moment of the negotiating tables and the demands was when you ruled, and it's over; now it's work, which is what's good for this government. That's why he's in constant contact with the Ministry and the Coal Mining Institute. The position of the People's Parliamentary Group will be rejected in all of the above. The current German Government has worked, is working and will continue to work for and for the Greeks of all the municipalities, also those of the old mining councils, because that, Your Honor, is the useful policy: to rule when to rule and not lament from the opposition what has not been done since the Government. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u118	Thank you very much. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry I don't remember your name, but I'm going to tell you something and I'm not saying it for bad, but whoever did the notes to you has no idea what he put there. Look, really... let's see, I'm talking about data, okay? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u120	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u121	Well, whoever put the data on it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u122	Silence! Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u123	I'm not against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u124	Silence, Mrs. Romero. Mrs. Romero, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u125	I also bring notes, which often do to me because I don't know everything, and that's what I mean, not that she can't do it. Careful! that I respect women above all, and I'm not disrespecting her or anyone. Who gave him the notes, who gave him the notes -- and I also brought notes made by myself from the data that they give me -- is very wrong. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I'm going to tell you one thing: first of all, I'm not a machist, and I don't mind you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u126	Mrs. Romero, call her in order! Mrs. Romero, I call you by order. It's okay now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u127	Look, I'm going to tell you one thing: there's a real decree that I really ask you to read it, because in the real decree adopted in 2014, we didn't govern ourselves, even here in the annex it was stated that the Autonomous Community can make a table together with the Institute, previously agreed with the trade union centres and business centres, and we will be removed from the table by the councils and trade union representatives. But the Autonomous Community can make this table. So you're telling me and the whole People's Party bench that Galicia refuses to set up this table and benefit or try to benefit sixteen Greek municipalities. [[Applause]] And besides, I read to him who they are — I lose them, I don't find them anymore, because there really are certain things — The Chapel, The Somozas, Carballo, Carral, Cerceda, Culleredo, Laracha, Mañón, Monfero, Orders, Ortigueira, San Sadurniño, Tordoia, The Bridges of García Rodríguez, Walls and Germade, which you don't want to have grants. And here it's clearly established that they're infrastructure objects. [[Applause]] Therefore, the Government of the Galician Union is giving up functions, because it's not trying at least these infrastructures to come here. And look, you're at the last part of your exposure to the notes you've been given, you've lied yourself; today it's true that there are no miners, but there have been them. And my first intervention was dedicated to women who defended that same land where there were mines. And, therefore, what we ask of those comarcas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u129	...is if they're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u130	About the amendment. Just look at the clock. It's just that it's been a while...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u131	Well, in any case, in today's day, only executed in the Town Hall of Cerceda you referred to is 21,982,116 euros. And among them were many of the works that had to be done by the Councillory, the Council of Galicia. See, for example, the Cerceda-A Silva road, the constructive project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u132	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, please, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u133	...Sogame-Messon of the Wind, the AP-9 Highway Commands...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u134	It's clear, it's clear. Now the amendment, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u135	Look, for a long time, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u136	But look at the weather...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u137	...I was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u138	No, but he's compensated. Look at the weather: one more minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u139	He's not compensated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u140	Man, it's one more minute. No, I think he is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u141	...increwing and calling me "machist."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u142	Not that, no. About the amendment, what do you say? About the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u143	I'll tell you again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u144	No, no, about the amendment, please. Tell me about the amendment now, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u145	On the amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block, we can integrate the second and first part and we can adopt it. In any case, the Galician Union doesn't want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u146	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u147	...help and support what you can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u149	...that the media and resources are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u151	...which puts them through the State through the Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia to continue the road to the Costa da Morte
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u153	The following non-legislative proposal is from the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Aurelio Núñez Centeno. There were two amendments to it: one from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u154	Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u155	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Members of the People's Parliamentary Group continue to hope that Mrs Santos will withdraw the regrettable comment she has made on social networks and apologize to our parliamentary group and to our party. [[Applause]] The MPs of the People's Party, "Woman of the PP", which she calls us to the ground, are not women's killers. And by going to the subject, as stated in the explanatory statement, the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia are aware of the great effort that the Government of Galicia has made to move forward in the vertebration of the territory and to contribute to greater competitiveness and equal opportunities for the citizens of Galicia. Even in times of crisis, and with the difficulties resulting from it, the Government of the People's Party has been able to continue to develop high-performance pathways in Galicia, building 210 new kilometres, and not 120 — as shown in the initiative for a mistake —, 210 new kilometres — free of fees, which is an increase of 66% of the total in 2009. These actions allowed 80% of Galician population to currently be less than fifteen minutes away from a high-capacity track. Of course, the most important exponent of this road advance we have on the Highway of the Coast of Death, put into service last July of the year 2016 with 25 kilometres of free toll-free bus between Carballo and Baio and two kilometers more than the variant of this town. This new infrastructure represented a transformation in the communications of the counties of the Coast of Death, the neighborhood where we live 120,000 people, focusing on improving their quality of life and well-being. In addition to the five municipalities that discuss the plot: Carball, Coristanco, Cabana, Vimianzo and Zas, there are also many municipalities that arrive at these improvements, such as Laxe, Fisterra, Corcubion, Cee, Dumbria, Camariñas, Mazaricos and Carnota, which can be reached today in a much lower time and with increased security thanks to the inauguration of this infrastructure. Of their technical quality they speak professional and, above all, citizens who already have it or have it used, with large lines and wide curved radios that allow quiet and safe driving. The story of this highway on the Coast of Death is very long and full of disposing. Although there was a preliminary draft approved by President Fraga's last government, the Bipartite decided to cancel it and initiate the drafting of a new project. In December 2006, a year and a half after the election, he helped write a new preliminary draft, which is finally approved in the Carballo-Berdoias section at the end of May 2007. In July of that same year, the concession for the construction of the high capacity track Carballo-Berdoias, while in January of 2008, the drafting of the informative study of the stretch between Berdoias and Cee is suspended. In October 2008 the concessionaire applied for the first extension for the presentation of the economic and financial plan, and despite that two months later the first stone of the chemical infrastructure is placed. In February 2009 the concessionaire applied for a second extension and in April of the same application for a concessional rebalancing, alluding to problems for the financing of the work. And ten days later he calls for a third extension. In May the Infrastructure Council — with the Government Feijóo — sends a letter to the company urging it to start the works immediately. In August 2009 the concessionaire asked the Board to terminate the contract, which is authorized at the Council of November, to rescind the invitation to tender again in December. What happened then? That a work valued at EUR 932 million in 2007 will be assessed in 2008 at 548. Looks like, ladies, a pretty scary drop. It also seems that a work has been helped to the knowledge of the impossibility of doing it, putting first stones despite the company's financial problems. The request for economic and financial rebalancing has not been communicated to counsellor Hernández by the outgoing Government. And in the company's documentation requesting this rebalancing, the dealership itself recognises that at the time of the offer they did not have an economic-financial plan approved by the banking institutions. And they also recognize a delicate and unstable financial situation of society that arose after the adjudication. The adjudicatory of the concession awarded by the Government Feijóo began the work, which had to paralyze by the impossibility of financing by banking entities, when it had already carried out part of the infrastructure: at that time, half of the movement of lands of the total plot, the three quarters of the transversal drainages, the 60% of the lower steps; in total, 20% of the execution in the entire trace. And that paralysing had to go out, gentlemen. The Government of the People's Party with counsellor Ethel Vázquez chose between the two options that there was, which was to do nothing or start by building 27 kilometres of highway, directly benefiting the five municipalities cited and indirectly the others. And fortunately for the 120,000 neighbors and neighbors of the brewery, he opted for the continuation of this work in this first phase to Baio and the variant to Santa Irene, of which we can enjoy in the regions of the Coast of Death — as I told them — from July of last year. The Galician Union was affixed by efficiency and by making the truce with greater traffic volume and length, with a willingness to comply with the Death Coast to increase the competitiveness of its entrepreneurs, their road safety and the quality of life of the neighborhood's neighbours and neighbours. And the highway to the Coast of Death is there and it's a reality that can be used throughout citizenship, and also free of charge. It's not a plan, it's not a model, it's not a first stone, it's -- as I said -- a reality. And it's there despite all the technical and economic difficulties that have posed its construction and despite also the political difficulties that have been posed by opposition groups. The BNG attempted to paralyze the works with a complaint before the Prosecutor's Office, in connection with a alleged prevarication in the amendment of the contract, accusing the Government — and I quote textually the words of the spokesman of the group at that time — "of a misappropriation of public funds for the benefit of a private company". Fortunately for the region of the Costa da Morte, the complaint was filed in record time, which allowed us to restart the work that today is used by thousands of neighbors and visitors every day. The members of this group, of our group, of the majority group, have tried to be enhanced by voting affirmatively on the bill authorising the amendment, whose legality was endorsed by the Juridical Counsel of the Board and by a report of the National Accounting Working Group, formed by the INE, the Banco de España and the General Intervention of the Administration of the State, which believed the financial rebalancing of the new concession that benefited the administration. On the same day of the opening of this first plot President Feijóo advanced that he was already working to continue this important infrastructure in stages, starting with the connection with Vimianzo. This same proposal was included in the electoral programme with which the People's Party presented itself to the elections last September and which exceeded 50 per cent of the votes in practice all of the municipalities in this area. The Government of the Galician Union is committed to this high-capacity axis, which will be executed through budget and in different phases. This decision to commit the work by budgeting and not by resorting to the concessional model is the maximum guarantee of the reality of its construction, avoiding the problems that have occurred in the past and reported already in this intervention that have delayed the first third. And it's done this way because current economic circumstances allow it. The budgets of this year 2017 reflect the commitment of the Government and the People's Party to this infrastructure and these districts, and envisage a split of €250,000, necessary to draft the construction project of the truce between Baio and the AC-432 road, in Vimianzo Town Hall, which connects the nucleus with Camarinas. Once again, it is up to our Government to choose between doing and not doing. And from this group, from the majority group, from the Popular Group, we ask the Government of the People's Party to make, which builds a new third of the high-performance route on the Coast of Death, to continue to enhance the industrial and tourist possibilities of the area and to improve the quality of life and safety of citizens. A work that we want to be done with realism and full responsibility for public budgets, turning an election promise into a useful infrastructure for people; seriously, without repeating mistakes from the past; with commitment of proper deadlines for reality and for the benefit of citizens, betting on the vertebration of the communities of Bergantinos, Soneira and Fisterra. That is why we put forward this non-law proposal, which we trust will be adopted unanimously by all groups of this House, which says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to continue on the road to the Coast of Death, beginning with a first phase connecting Baio and AC-432, towards Camarinas, moving forward this same year in the procedures necessary for the drafting of the constructive project and providing the necessary annualities in the budgets of the Union so that this infrastructure is a reality in this legislation." We look forward, as I said earlier, to the support of this House's groups. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u156	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. It's been a fortnight since we've been traveling around by the highway on the Death Coast, and today it's too far from being finished. This of the extensions of execution deadlines, obstacles, excuses of ill-paying are the day-to-day public works in our country. And the breach of deadlines is becoming a habit that is not recommended. The irresponsibility of the People's Party must be made manifest, which annulled the contract which was awarded in 2008 by up to EUR 4,180,000 in compensation. Afterwards, Merge writes a new project, which not only cuts the planned plot but also doubles the cost. Look, I haven't read, I confess that I haven't read, Alice in the country of wonders, but I'm reading here or listening here to that mouthbook of the People's Party day after day. Nevertheless, this region has been one of the country's most developed for decades, but the lack of communication, whatever the environment, makes work opportunities and progress almost non-existent. The wharf of Brens, of course, urgently needs a dignified exit in order to take advantage of all its potential. In October 2013, he joked about what you said, Mr. Agustín Hernández, putting the horizon away, as far as 2016; then it was far away. And I repeat that he was joking because it turned out a joke, because starting in 2017 you propose five kilometers with a euphoria and triumphalism that resounds and mocks again. Anyway, a whole chapuza. It must be a complex and difficult construction, for it has in its existence a number of brakes, irregularities, and above all it has been used and is used as a scandalous propaganda for you. That's why you keep the work on hold so as to hand it over to each election call. This rhythm will give them a lot. Or is it to go from five to five kilometers in each legislate and be able to present flaming PNL, cheerful, dynamic and triumphalists, and I would say ramplones, that give them headlines in the papers friends, like this one we are debating today? But what do we do with the Death Coast? Do we continue giving him the pipe and to finish the threat of segregation of the Ferroatlantic power stations in time we prolong the end of this vital, vital, vital communication infrastructure for its development? Well clarine stood the other day for anyone who knows how to interpret Mr. Feijóo's words, clariño stayed. Mr. Villar Mir sends a lot, and you will say amenable to what the ex-Minister of the Most High commands. Not us, and the workers, I don't think, either. I think by bailing I got off the subject, but we're going to the bus, because it's connected. Look, from the BNG we think it's time to leave the Entrood and enter the Coresma. And to get into the Coresma, with its seriousness, let's propose that the resolution have a minimum of courage and repair the booty of hair by calling things by name. And according to our approach, we should pray: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to continue on the road to the Death Coast," — and so on — "starting with a first phase connecting Baio with Berdoias," — not five kilometers, let's do it well!— "prove this same year in the procedures necessary for the drafting of the constructive project and providing the necessary annualities in the budgets of the Union for this infrastructure to Cee to be a reality in the present legislation". And look, we didn't miss it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u158	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u159	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. I've been taught that the path of progress is neither quick nor simple, belongs to Marie Curie. And as she many men and women we have clear that the struggle for equality is neither swift nor simple; however, that will not stop our struggle. [[Applause]] Indeed, on July 29th last year, near the autonomous elections — as it could not be otherwise and as this government has already become used to us — the highway of the Coast of Death was inaugurated, after almost fourteen long years of waiting, fourteen! —this is the reality—, fourteen long years of waiting. In this opening act, the president of the Union committed himself to continuing on the highway to the Coast of Death. In the Voice of Galicia on July 29th, the president's words were gathered, which said, "We started hiring this same year the construction project that will allow the extension of the highway of the Costa da Morte to Vimianzo Town Hall." I mean, the same initiative you bring today. I ask them: what is it? don't you trust the word of your president? Do you have to bring something that is already a commitment from the President of the Government because they don't trust his word? Do you have to bring a non-legislative proposal to Parliament so that the President will fulfill his commitments? How little do you value the word of the President of the Board? If you don't trust your own president, how will we trust you? Finally, with regard to our amendment, they have repeatedly announced both by both the president and counsellor corresponding to the extension to AC-432, an intermediate point between Pasarela and Vimianzo's urban helmet. With a trace up to Vimianzo without direct access to the industrial polygon, the vehicles would have to leave the AC-432, turn left, enter the city center of Vimianzo and then turn left again. By the way, a rather dangerous crossing. And I repeat also: enter the urban center of Vimianzo. That, if so, would create a very serious traffic problem, having to enter the urban hull all the traffic coming from the north; something that does not currently occur with AC-552. All resulting drawbacks are already imagined. This doesn't even have the slightest logic, it's one without reason. I mean, we took out the traffic from AC-552, from the urban area, to get him on the bus, and once inside the bus, we took him back from the bus to get him back to the urban centre and to the AC-552. It sounds absurd, I'd say. On the other hand, we're talking about vertebrating the Death Coast, giving it life. If the few industrial polygons we have make it difficult for them to enter, if we put more price on their plots as is happening with Vimianzo, it doesn't seem logical that we will achieve such a goal, unless they wait at similar prices that no company is implanted, and that's why they don't expect an exit to this polygon. That's why we incorporated our amendment, to ask them to give the Vimianzo industrial polygon an exit. The second point of our amendment is to make the highway a reality: "Initiate the necessary procedures to complete the general project of the highway until its arrival in Berdoias. In the 2017 exercise to hire the project's drafting, and the bidding would take place in 2018, and it would have a maximum completion deadline of twenty-four months," that is, end it. It's easy because in that plot, if they go around perfectly, there are already investments made, expropriations, demotes... everything is a matter of political will. They say they're going to work for the vertebration of the communities of Bergantinos, Soneira and Fisterra, because I'm going to tell them what the reality is: between 2011 and 2016 — INE data — we're not going to stop losing population: Laxe lost 5%, Malpica lost 8%, Pontice 6%, Cabana 7%, Vimianzo 8%, Camariñas lost 11% of the population, Moise 7%, Corcubion another 7%, Cee 3%, Fisterra 5%, Dumbria lost 8% of the population, Carnota 11% of the population. In twelve municipalities in less than five years we lost 4,000 people. People go away, young people go away, those who are left are getting older and older, and that's the future we have on the Coast of Death, that's the future of our region. And, as always, that's what we're talking about today: about territories and people, about people who are lucky every morning to have a job, take their car and start for Carballo, for Artixo or for La Coruña, paying the corresponding fee. And that's why we tabled our amendment, because it takes up the president's commitment, and what they have to do is take up their commitments and accept our amendment. Have word and be noble. If they don't accept our amendment, as we always understand that they're looking for a headline, another one, the same as what they drew on July 29th, which is what they said, that they'd expand to the highway by five miles. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u161	Good morning, everyone. After the Prestige disaster, the Government of the State and Galician government committed inside the comarca compensations the construction of the highway on the Death Coast. Fourteen years later, the county is still waiting. The plot to Berdoias has been expropriated and expropriated for years, but the construction of the highway has no specific dates or budgetary commitments. The People's Party's Non-Law Bill calls on the Galician Council to continue the road to the Coast of Death, moving forward this same year in the necessary procedures for drafting the construction project. We don't think there's any need to move forward in the process; that's close to smoking. A real proposal, not of the Government's driving force law, should call for the concrete drafting of the project this year, not to advance the procedures, but to carry out the project concrete this year, and compromise the concrete budget which guarantees the completion of the works before this legislation is completed. To talk only about futures is not — I think — the object of a non-law of impulse to the Government, it must be realized. If they don't do this, it'll be a new competition for the county, similar to the infamous industrial plan that Ferroglobe is proposing to allow the sale of hydraulic power stations. This same weekend, the former managing director of Iron-Atlantic R & D, in a post he published on Sunday, made it clear. In addition to other things he says: the first thing they want to do is box and after each one gets caught. Besides, what they offer from an industrial plan doesn't stand for the slightest analysis, it's simply ridiculous. All our support for the workers. Well, let's hope that what goes ahead with this LNP is not just ridiculous either; we hope that concrete dates will be realized. What this LNP should be doing should be: are you going to do the project this year?, are you going to close the project?, would it be possible in a year to do the project? Do you consider that EUR 250,000 from the 2017 budgets to be a strong commitment to the development of the work? Since they claim that the budget will be taken, what budget will be realized for this work in the next three exercises?, how much do you think it is necessary and how much do you intend to compromise? In what format will this infrastructure reach Berdoias?, will it be as a highway, as it was promised? I think all of these are the things that should worry them. Well, the truth is this and also the news that just came out, that Judge Velasco has just found the concrete papers with all the illegal funding of the People's Party of Madrid. That should also worry them today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u162	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Parliamentary group which is the author of the non-legislation proposal, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, I'm not a government to answer the questions, you can ask the questions when you want the advisor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u164	Excuse me a moment, Mr. Núñez Centeno. I think this is not part of the House's decoration and therefore this is not allowed by the Presidency. No, no, it's not allowed by the Presidency. I ask you to go back to your seats or do whatever you consider appropriate, but this is not allowed by the Presidency. You'll see; otherwise, I'll suspend the full momentarily. [[Murmurs.]] No, no. I'm sorry, I'm pointing out that this is not covered by the House Rules of Procedure. You can force situations as far as you want. If you won't retire, I'll suspend the full. I don't have a problem. You'll see! [[Applause]] [[The honourable Members of the En Marea Parliamentary Group and Vice-President of the Bureau of the Galician Parliament leave the Chamber and continue the meeting.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u165	It is a pity that Mrs Santos has been withdrawn, because since the good personal relationship I have with her I have kept in my apology for the Members of the People's Group. [[Applause]] Well, with regard to Mr. Casal's intervention, he spoke of everything but the bus. He spoke of all other things except the highway to the Coast of Death. It's quite surprising, ladies and gentlemen, what we have to hear in this Chamber. Those who promised and failed to meet the Death Coast now come in haste and with demands. Those who used the plot to manifest themselves without citizens, only with politicians, come to teach lessons from what the Government of the People's Party has to do. Those who have limited themselves to the first stones in a single square meter of work come to this House with claims that they themselves know cannot be fulfilled. I suppose the amendments will be made to justify the negative vote on this initiative, which has no other object but to construct a new roadblock to promote the comfort and security of the neighborhood's neighbours. Look, ladies and gentlemen, citizens are much more squabbling than many of you think. Mr. Rivas, citizens don't think they're very happy with that interpretation that makes you say that, as publicity, they vote for the People's Party simply because we deceive them with advertising. I think the citizens of the Coast of Death will take into account what you say. And their opinion clearly manifested it last September 25th, showing who they believe and who they don't believe. Do I remind you of the results? Mazarics, the absolute majority of the Galego Nationalist Block in the Town Hall, 64.67% of vote for the People's Party; Zas, the absolute majority of the BNG, 63.75% of vote for the People's Party; Vimianzo, the absolute majority when they presented themselves with the BNG, now the Marea, 57.28% of vote for the People's Party; Muxia, the absolute majority of the Socialist Party, 55.19% for the People's Party; Camarines, the absolute majority of the Socialist Party in the Town Hall, and now 49% for the last votes for the People's Party. This is the reality of the people who live on the Coast of Death on the highway, the Government of the People's Party and their commitment to the citizens of the various municipalities. Of course, whoever took the preliminary draft between Berdoias and Cee wasn't the People's Party, was shot down at the time of the two-party government. With regard to the amendments, he asks even Cee the BNG. As I told you, it was you who shortened the initial project in times of fat cows. We cannot accept this amendment because it is absolutely unrealistic in time and in economic terms, by doing so by budget. It would be absolutely irrevocable. We can try to reach consensus with the Socialist Group on the first point of its initiative, its amendment, on the subject of diversion or exit to the Vimianzo polygon. Of course, the extension of this infrastructure will be made through budgets, not through concessional channels, it will not be possible to assume the investments that you ask us for within the deadlines that mark in your amendments with current income forecasts. I suppose you won't want us to withdraw health, education or social policy parties to short-term construction of this route. We regret the lack of support in principle from the opposition groups to continue this infrastructure, continuing their policy of blocking it, but the citizens of the Coast of Death know the People's Party's commitment to the county, and so they made him see it last September. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u166	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. in Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the parliamentary agreement on the opening of a dialogue table between employers and trade unions, with the mediation of the Galego Labour Relations Council, to adopt agreements to allow the recovery of wages to the state average and to achieve effective wage equality between men and women for the year 2020, as well as to respond to the needs of reconciliation between working and family life
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u167	Not being present Paula Verao, if any Member of En Marea wants to defend her... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we're giving it down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u168	Please, Mr. Trenor and Mr. Villares, silence. I am reading what we are going to debate now. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villares, please be quiet. I'm going to read what we're going to debate, which I think is important. Silence, if not, I'll call them both in order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's the only way to secure a certain order here in the plenary. That sounds like a lie! I think, at last, I don't know... you'll see. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the Law 7/2004 of 16 July, Galicia for equality of women and men
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u169	An amendment was made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and another amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u170	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Today, March 8th, it's for us, especially for women, an important date. We understand from the Nationalist Block that the goal of equality should occupy a priority place in our agendas on 365 days of the year, and the consolidation of a date like this allows us, precisely, the opportunity to take advantage of it also to stop for a moment and reflect, look back, evaluate how far we have come and, above all, look forward to taking on new challenges. More than a hundred years ago, because this date symbolizes the tireless struggle of many women and groups of women who have been occupying spaces and getting rights so that all of us here today can enjoy, though insufficient, a series of conquests and opportunities; without their efforts it would not have been possible. For all of them, what they have been, what they are and what they will be, our profound recognition from the Nationalist Block of Wales. However, the optimism that has been achieved and the confidence that feminists will be able, from the different areas, to drive more and more conquests, must not prevent us from being critical, evaluate the thermometer of equality in Galicia in March 2017 and ask us a number of questions. So we ask ourselves, for example, where we are, and we think about it from Galicia to the world. Looking globally, there are different reports that alarm the situation we're in. To mention one, what we have discussed in our initiative as well, the World Economic Forum - which is not a body directly controlled by the Galego Nationalist Block, as Imaginan - has been preparing an annual report on equality for more than ten years. It evaluates, with data from different countries, indicators such as education, health, participation and economic opportunities, as regards wages, leadership and political empowerment, i.e. representation in the structures where decisions are made. This report allows us to come up with an idea of the evolution of the world's equality. In addition, in recent years, in which, by the way, the Spanish State does not go out for anything good, a calculation is incorporated which estimates how long it will take us to achieve equality. In addition, any of us can access the World Economic Forum website and use a computer app at which you enter your age, gender and status where you reside, and calculate how long you would take you individually to achieve equality. Well, I did that same test, and you know how many years I'm supposed to take? One hundred and ninety-nine. The average life expectancy for the Greek women is over 86 years old, and yet, though particularly in Ourense we have a little higher, it would take more than two lives to be equal to the rest of the men who share with me this House of Parliament plenary. We consider - and we expect others to share it - that this is a truly alarming situation and that we must take action. This 2016 report warns that equality between men and women could take about 170 years on average, but this same report estimated that in 2015 it was 118. So we wondered why in a year an increase of more than 50 years. Why? For the report itself - which, as I say, is not at all something that is strictly in our ideological coordinates - says that this increase is mainly due to a drastic reduction in progress in equality, and since the Nationalist Block in Wales we understand that this happens worldwide and locally, that happens at the global level in a context of the offensive of capitalism and that happens here and now in Galicia in 2017 in a context of economic recession where we invest in our rights is not a priority. It happens in a context in which, under the excuse of the crisis, the austere policies of the People's Party and legal reforms such as the labour reforms of the People's Party and the Socialist Party in the Spanish State have contributed to impoverishing the working class and, in addition, freezing the policies of equality, as well as cutting women's rights. In this context where we are repeatedly reminded that the macroeconomic framework is positive, that GDP increases, that employment per second year increases globally, we analyze that if we really break down the work map, we see that the data for us, for women, are extremely worrying. It continues to lower the active population, for example, in absolutely every tranche, except for older women, the rest occupy quotas of temporality; a wage gap only shorted at small points precisely by the decrease in the average wage of men, not by the increase of women, and the consolidation of the phenomenon of the poor worker and worker. This happens because equality cannot be achieved by enunciation, it is necessary to articulate policies and budgets that pursue it. We won't get it either with holders and institutional statements. That's why I repeat a question that introduced at the beginning of my intervention. We understand that the consolidation of March 8 is an opportunity to stop and think, to evaluate what tools we have, what we are doing and whether it is enough. So today, in particular, we want to focus our intervention, our reflection on two points: firstly, on the need for a greater commitment to conciliation; and, secondly, on the need to assess the impact of the Equality Law, and, if necessary, to modify it or develop a new one. As for conciliation, according to the data made public by the General Council of the Judiciary itself, this community is the second, after Madrid, where most demands for conciliation problems are presented, and that's in a country with demographics in the state in which it is. Yesterday we listened carefully to Mr. King Varela's appearance and saw that, as always, they advertise much and execute little. We understand that the commitment of conciliation as a tool to promote equality is to implement more resources, and we propose that the necessary amendment of the law be made to what has to do with conciliation in the framework of work, favoring greater promotion of children's schools in large-scale workers' and workers' companies as well as greater aid adapted to our reality. And, second and last, I wanted to calm down in another aspect that seems absolutely fundamental to us, which is to intervene on whether it is necessary or not to alter that equality law that we have given ourselves. Twelve years have passed since the adoption of Law 7/2014 - twelve years - and we understand that in the same way that the permanence of machist violence causes us to reflect and reach consensus to reform the legal framework and to reform the measures we take, because the permanence of inequality in the labour and social environment and the speed of conquests, decreasing by the cuts imposed by this recession context, such as the fact that as society we progress in the recognition and visibility of the multiple phenomena of violence, in the face of this changing context, we must stop in the face of the new challenges of the future and value the need to assess the impact, the degree of compliance of this law and also, in collaboration with the Galician Parliament, but always involved by social agents, trade unions and by feminist organizations and collectives, we must value the need to make changes. This law, as you know, covers multiple areas, but we wanted to focus on one that we understand is particularly worrying: sexual harassment in the workplace. Sexual harassment and sexual harassment are the living, worrying and serious example of the violence that women suffer in the workplace, and which has three aggravating factors to take into account. First of all, it's deeply invisible, we don't know its impact, we don't even have statistics on what degree of sexual harassment may be in the workplaces of our country. The fact that complaints often occur within the company itself without reaching the legal sphere and that in the legal field they can go through different ways makes it difficult for us to really know how much harassment exists and how we can eradicate it. On the other hand, not only does it have a considerable degree of invisibility, but it is also deeply normalized, both in the victims and in the aggressor, and in a context, in addition to economic crisis, we have a greater situation of vulnerability and we are forced to accept situations that in another safe economic context they would not accept. In view of this, we understand that more resources must be put in place and that actions must be reviewed; we cannot remain impatient in the face of this pandemic. And we have concrete proposals for the debate. First of all, let's clarify whether we recognize that sexual harassment is a crime or not, whether it's masculine violence, as the law says, or not, or whether the majority force in this country does not recognize it. Secondly, we believe that it is essential to advise - and dialogue - companies in the drafting of protocols. The General Council of the Judiciary, in collaboration with the Generalitat, has produced a report in 2013 warning that most of these reports do not link harassment to violence, for example. To assess also issues we understand that we must also change, such as the suitability of so-called informal procedures within the framework of companies, which often end up resulting in the fact that women assaulted have to dialogue and negotiate an exit with the person who hires them. Or, for example, strengthen the care system so that women have nowhere to go. We've made a lot of progress in showing women who live in a situation of masculine violence in their personal environment who have tools to report, who have tools to come to them, but have we done the same thing for those living in their workplace to feel protected and included in those tools? We have doubts, and above all - it has left here today this morning - we understand that we must set an example as an administration and that we must categorically terminate the contract with those companies condemned for harassment and psycho-laboral terrorism; to terminate these contracts, as is the case with comrade Neli, to whom we have come to support the Nationalist Block Galego in a concentration against the impermissible General Secretariat of Equality. [[Applause]] We use it to throw our support from here again, and we also throw all the women who live some kind of situation in their working environment who are not alone, who is not our fault, who is out there and that we will do our best since the institutions because that exit arrives as soon as possible, with the greatest possible protection and impunity for both the aggressors and the complicit companies with the patriarchate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u173	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. "We will not disassemble the master's house with the master's tools," is a sentence of the American writer, activist and feminist Audrey Lorde. To confuse the struggle for women's equality with aggression at men's rights is one of the most paralyzing messages of this conquest. [[Applause]] The greatness of this struggle lies precisely in the fact that the most important steps are those apparently quieter. That's why it's fair to remember some women today. They are called Marisa, Chelo, Isabel, Luísa, Pura, Carmine, Elvira. Many were mothers, many were grandparents and many were no longer among us; all were retired teachers, working women who during the past century occupied these rural schools, often in isolated villages of Galicia, under very precarious conditions, where they pushed to educate those thousands of children and children who had limited access to education. With such a poorly paid effort, they managed to improve the lives of all of them. They were quiet motors of the economic improvement of this country, concerned and involved with families, bringing together the boys, training mediators, laborers, social, sacrificing their own access to information and culture to provide for the future and equal opportunities for them and for them. So serve your example of honoring them on the day we commemorate today, World Women's Day. Because we have nothing to celebrate. I personally believe that it is a day that we mean to remember and record how much we have to move forward to achieve the gains denied to women for years. Last Friday, I was asked if I thought the women of Greece were better than ever since they ruled Feijó. I'm going to answer with the following headlines published in various media today: "The German labour market is less equitable as the recovery progresses," "Women sign 89% of family care surpluses." Another: "I was insulted for being a woman," "One of the two workers has a job without a guarantee of rights," and the latter, "They deny telework to a researcher from a public center with three children." With these headlines, do I really think I can answer that women are better? If society every time it takes one step forward does it at the expense of a step behind women, why are we going to be satisfied? Can anyone understand that that brother who receives less affection, less protection or less attention from his parents than another brother may be happy because one day they give him something of affection, something of protection or something of attention? He will be happy on the day he has and receives the same; it is so simple. [[Applause]] In the construction world, self-sacrifice materials are called those who have the main role to preserve the good behavior of others in favor of their own wear. That's women, their historical role in society: materials of sacrifice, they allow the good functioning of society, but sacrificing their own well-being and rights. And I don't say it, tell it the everyday data, the thousands of headlines that are in the world press today and that speak of this historical imbalance. And to previous headlines we added the headline last Saturday: "He called on us not to politicize the struggle for equality because it would be to miss women." It seems that our own president feels uncomfortable with those who have worked for equality since politics. Women and men who are aware of women's equality will continue to claim those rights in this House as often as necessary, because here we have come to make politics, debate and counter-position ideas; not to take a few children among friends; that would indeed be to miss women, Mr. Feijóo. But I don't really know what you mean by a president who isn't even present when this Parliament is dealing with an issue of equality on a day like today. I don't know who's here to teach lessons of respect. [[Applause]] He also spoke of the president of undeniable progress. You're proud of the increase in the parking lots in kindergartens. I would prefer that if I felt proud that many mothers and parents could enjoy family reconciliation, the implementation of co-responsibility, to be among the countries referring to maternity and paternity leave and not to have to make use of those day care facilities. There is a world, the happy world, which described writer Aldous Huxley, in which children and children were entrusted to an education system classified by abilities and in which the role of the family was rejected since their birth. The affective was not a value of society. If we do not want to progress towards that dehumanized world described, we urgently address these social needs. We are therefore in favour of the proposals put forward by the BNG Group today, supporting the creation of equality plans in companies and even considering their inclusion in those with a minimum of 150 workers. And we've tabled amendments to the proposals for this LNP which are basically motivated by the erroneous reference to the law that has already been repealed and which has to refer to the February 2015 Legislative Decree. We hope these amendments are accepted by the BNG Group. And, by the way, I decree what we consider necessary a study on the impact, the degree of non-compliance and the vigil of it. Nothing but adding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u175	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, President. The world, gentlemen, I don't know when women are missing, it's not true; the world stops when women and men are missing, as we have well seen a few moments ago. The ladies of En Marea make the most important proposal they bring today, the International Women's Day; the only proposal they bring about in the field of equality and undermines this issue. It's more important for En Marea to tweet or protest than her work for equality in the Galician Parliament. Anyway, we continue to await the apologies of Mrs Carmen Santos and the Members of the People's Party in this Parliament. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] A few days ago we celebrated the 180 years of the birth of the Welsh poet Rosalía de Castro, and she said these words: "Because women are not yet allowed to write what they feel and what they know." Thanks to women like her, things have changed a lot. The first legislative text on equality which came forward in the German Parliament was the 1991 Law. A law in which the Galego Service of Equality of Man and of Women was approved, a project of a People's Government that received the vote against the whole opposition, probably because of the difficulty he was supposed to assume that it was the People's Party who had taken the lead on this issue. There's one before and one after, of course, since the passing of that law. Today we have the 2015 Legislative Decree in force. You are proposing a work on a law — the one in 2004 — which is already recast in the present. Our proposal is much more ambitious for this day. We do not entrust the Union — as you propose — with this assessment of the current legislation, but we propose that we work together — as we have done so far and as we are setting an example of what is right to do — all the political forces represented in this Parliament in the non-permanent study commission for equality and women's rights by asking that the impact assessment, the degree of compliance and the vigil of the current Legislative Decree of the Year 2015 should be included in their work plan. As you can see, with a wide range of looks, with a desire to add up and with a desire to do. Of course, we propose a joint work, as was done with the Greek Pact against masculine violence. It's the only way to conquer an end that must join men and women and all the political parties that we are represented here. That there is no murder anymore, that no child and no child from Greece is left without a father and is left without a mother because of the situation of masculine violence that we are living in our society. We must learn in that way to reach agreements in everything that has to do with discrimination and to achieve real equality between men and women. That must be our way of doing it. This is our initiative, to hold them by the hand to come together for what unites us. And in that work we can talk about all the matters included in your current proposal. We can include them, we can add them, we can add them, and we can propose them; that's yes, in the place where we have to do it, in a commission where we can all work together. First of all, to specify a little more what they ask in their non-law proposal, they ask to study the promotion of equality in companies of more than 300 workers. Don't you know the bosses of the Galician Nationalist Block who are already legally implemented that the companies of 250 workers have to have an equal plan in their company? Does the Galician Nationalist Block propose to subsidize large companies to comply with their obligation? Let's suppose not. As you know, the law prohibits inequality, and agreements cannot include any kind of discriminatory clause -- we're talking about a very serious issue. Women's employment and gender equality are being promoted through concrete actions. Since 2009 55% of all aid for women had an important incentive for recruitment. And the budget for this year 2017 has increased, there are 1,300,000 euros for the Emega Women's Entrepreneurship Program. The President of the Galician Union said there was a time when a strategic equality plan for 2017-2020 will be adopted. I think we're lucky this March 8th, this Woman's Day. The data are very positive and the report prepared by the Federation of Self-Employers for this day highlights the autonomous communities of Asturias and Galicia for the good data and the good results we have. Finally, the relationship they made in their non-law proposal with regard to labour and sexual harassment. In the autonomic administration, it's only where we can have that regulation. As you know, the sanctioning regime to companies comes under a decree establishing the state, and we have no jurisdiction in our autonomous community. [[Murmurs.]] Well, we have no problem moving forward on those pioneering projects. We keep holding our hand, that's our spirit of work, going further. And that's why we ask Junta, in our amendment that we propose to replace, to develop a protocol against labour harassment in the Public Administration as regards sexual harassment. We demand practice zero tolerance with any kind of violence and very especially in cases of violence against men. There are 300 women in Galicia who don't report...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u176	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u177	I think we have to go hand in hand and be far above our political parties or their partisan ideologies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u179	...and in this sense work together against gender-based violence and inequality; from the hands of men and women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u180	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u181	Thank you, President. From En Marea we will vote in favour of this initiative, because we agree with the proposed points. And we want to do special fincapé in the first one, because it seems to us that it is especially urgent to prepare this study and evaluate it. I thought that what we talked about in the Phoenicia we did to elaborate the recommendations to improve organic law we had already agreed, precisely, on the need to assess the impact, the degree of compliance and the vigil of this law. Because if we consider this necessary to improve the current organic law, I suppose the same argument will serve the German law itself. On the amendment of the Socialist Party, we agree, we have nothing to add. However, if we were going to position ourselves... well, I couldn't listen to the arguments of the spokesperson of the People's Party, because we were stopped, but reading the amendment seems to us to be an absolute mistake in this approach. From our point of view, the Non-Permanent Equality Commission should not be used as the perfect excuse to appeal to immobilism and leave all decisions for a more distant future by tomorrow. It goes ahead that for us both this commission and the possible presentation that is believed to work towards a German pact against the violence of the macho feel necessary and positive. But this is already the second time that the People's Party has tabled an amendment calling for the debate to be postponed in this plenary session and moved to this committee. And I'm going to repeat the same arguments: I would ask you to take the parliamentary debate seriously, and postponing the debate also means delaying the solutions, which are urgent. So I don't quite understand the meaning of this amendment. Don't be afraid, show your position on the proposed points, which are very clear, they're very concise, and from our point of view they don't give rise to doubts or interpretations. So I hope you withdraw your amendment and vote in favour of this initiative. Otherwise, we will look forward to the arguments they make to vote against issues which bring so much consensus into society. And when we talk about macho violence, especially the People's Party uses language in a rather perverse way. Yes, yes, I have no problem repeating it and I would ask them to have some respect and listen to the companions when we talk. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to explain to you why I say they use language in a perverse way, because you speak a lot of times by appealing to responsibility and appealing to the necessary consensus of all groups of this House. [[Applause]] We, of course, want to reach consensus that will move us forward in the fight against gender inequalities, and we want these consensuss to be reached as soon as possible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But we just don't want to reach consensus simply from these parliamentary groups, we want to achieve consensus with all women who work precariously, with all women who work invisiblely in their homes, with all those who are harassed in their workplaces. And to achieve consensus with these women, we have to vote on initiatives like the one presented here today. So, I don't know what you understand when you talk about responsibility, but the real responsibility for us is -- as they said -- not to seek the consensus of the parliamentary groups that we are here today, we have to go much further: to start looking for consensus, for example, with all the organized feminist groups and with all the women who resist, and who are the real point of launching the fight against male violence. That's why I find it really offensive to hear on a day like today's President of the Union saying that the People's Party was the first to draw up a Plan of Equality in Teaching, to talk about their belief in untagged feminism and to listen to how they want to help women. You should know that feminism was in the streets against many of his laws, which took the counter-reform of the Abortion Law, which brought down a minister. And no one has helped us and we don't want anyone's help, we want rights. These we conquered, the women, outside of this Parliament, in the streets mobilising us. [[Applause]] That is why, in order to be truly useful, we should begin to see politics as a collective exercise and come out from time to time from the walls of this Parliament. They should assume that the only way to end the multiple oppressions and violence we suffer from women is to practice feminism. And feminism is practiced every day, every moment, every space. That is why we deeply regret that today they did not support unemployment and that they did not echo the mobilization that was outside these walls; we regret that they were not next to those women who today gave an example of international solidarity, all those women who decided to stop today. And we stop because there's only one reason why we should, first of all, because we don't want to have one. Unfortunately, we're not all here anymore, all the murders are absent; in what goes on in the 20th year, women are already those who aren't with us. So, this 8th of March, we stop to remember that our bodies and our lives are unique and exclusively ours, and that if we stop, the world is stopped.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u183	Well, as Mrs Quinteiro was not when the People's Party began her intervention by failing to deal with all the Members of En Marea, whom I consider to be feminist allies, although she does not share some ideological issues often with them, and in fact I have been unemployed at another time, because I will be myself, since Mrs Quinteiro... I don't know what grace makes them. [[Murmurs.]] Well, nothing, everyone shrinks from their attitude. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, as she was not listening, that she was exercising her free right to execute that unemployment, for I tell them that there is little shame to be found that En Marea's initiative did not defend itself because they were executing that unemployment and accusing us, in addition, of the forces of opposition of little ambition in our proposals, when you not only bring none here today to this Parliament, but do not execute the laws, and do not execute their proposals, and do not answer our questions. [[Applause]] There must be little shame! But, finally, they can keep laughing and gossiping about what they want. [[Applause]] Besides, Mrs. Garcia went through like Mr. Feijóo: I came with the manual that we were going to focus everything on violence, and she didn't even learn the lesson well. Because if I didn't get it wrong, until now, at least we had a certain consensus gathered in the laws around what is macho violence and who is executed, which as far as I know was about women. And this thing that the men and children who are left without parents didn't understand it very well. But, finally, I'm going to some of the specific issues that were coming out here. First of all, the amendment of the Socialist Party — I share the analysis introduced by Comrade Quintore — is not worth it to us. It is not worth it because, first of all, from this Parliament we have this tool, that committee, which we value positively; in fact, we participate proactively in its day from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block for the creation of it. But if we look at the successive dictates of the previous legislation, here are the defaults that are evidenced by those of the People's Party lords. And that commission may be useful if the majority force assumes its consensus and executes it, but of course, what we are not going to allow women of this opposition is that it is used as an alibi so that here we can no longer talk about feminism or proposals, because the People's Party does not want us to come to this Parliament to politicize. How foolish to come to a Parliament to exercise the free and democratic right to talk about political problems that have political solutions! So we're not going to accept it. It's more: we understand that it's not serious, because there are studies, there are deliberations that we can do from here, but with all humility, with all modesty, we have to assume that there are issues that must be studied at the highest level and that quantitative, qualitative and statistical studies must be conducted. For example, sexual harassment, of the few studies that there are and which are state-owned, non-German, we have one of 2006 developed by the State. Elaborated by the state and for what was done, for example, in addition to groups of debate, qualitative studies and so on, a universe of more than 10,000 surveys to assess whether there were women at risk of sexual harassment or experiences of sexual harassment at work. Questions like these to make a comprehensive study on the impact of an initiative are not resolved with a deliberation commission. For talking about more issues, protocols and equality plans. We do not propose on our initiative that more equality plans be made. It is that the equality plans go to this study that I recommended to them at the 2013 General Council of the Judiciary will see as most of them the protocols that are theoretically born to protect women from sexual harassment, 3% of them indicating sexual harassment as a crime of macho violence, when that is collected in both the law of Galicia and the state law. What's that plan worth? What's that protocol worth? From mere text, from mere accessory, but it doesn't bring real solutions. So let's evaluate whether it works or not, evaluate whether we have to take other steps. More questions that have been coming out and I'm going to finish. On sexual harassment, nothing can be done about sexual harassment now because it is a crime defined in another legislative area. All right, but from here on, we have tools, we have tools to prevent, we have tools to accompany, and we have tools to illustrate. And I repeat: first, we decide if you comply with the law and act...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u184	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u185	...that sexual harassment is a crime, as it is in the case that it has already come out here today from Mr Baltar, or, if not, they will continue to make accomplices and co-workers, or make decisions that are in their hands...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u187	...how to terminate contracts with companies that practice sexual harassment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u189	And finally, say yes, that unfortunately we are in the democratic right to exercise the feminism we want, because feminism, by definition, is plural. That's why we always talk about "feminisms," and our, unfortunately, that weighs them, is nationalistic and classy. And we'll reach consensus, yes, but those consensuss won't go in exchange for transfers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u191	...that we don't agree with, or silence what we think.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u192	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u193	We proceed to vote on non-law proposals. We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding the establishment of a framework of labour relations and collective bargaining. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 41; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u194	We voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Don Maria de la Concepción Burgo López and Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de la Concepción Burgo López and Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in order to analyze and consensualize all aspects of the adscription of the centers of artistic teachings superior to universities by agreement, as well as to enable their incorporation into the Greek university system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u195	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the demand of the Galician Council and the Galego Fisheries Council for the preparation of a biannual report aimed at improving the competitiveness and sustainability of the fisheries sector. A transaction is pending. If there's... Sorry? Give a voice to Mr. López Crespo's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u196	Should I read it or should I hand it over to you? We have to read it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u197	Is it too long?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u198	"The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to promote the preparation of an annual report on the situation in the Greek fisheries sector by the Galician Fisheries Council on how to shape concerns and problems, as well as targets and short, medium and long-term lines of action, with a view to improving the competitiveness and sustainability of our fisheries sector. This report should propose the reforms it considers necessary in fisheries, seafood and aquaculture regulations in order to improve the competitiveness and sustainability of the sector, and it should be referred to the Galician Parliament for the purpose of holding an information session on it within the 8th Commission, in accordance with Article 143 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u199	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo. We therefore vote for this transaction that has just been read. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People in Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and 14 other Members, on the request from the Galician Council to the Galician Fisheries Council for a biannual report aimed at improving the competitiveness and sustainability of the fisheries sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u200	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea at the initiative of Mrs Santos Queiruga. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and D. Luis Villares Naveira, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Justice for the increase of the plant of the Prosecutor's Office in Galicia, as well as to the Attorney General's Office of the State for the designation of an exclusive anti-corruption prosecutor for the autonomous community. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 41; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u201	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo. No transaction, no amendments accepted. We therefore vote as the non-law proposal is formulated. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out for the development in Galicia of the Royal Decree 575/2014, so the regulatory bases for aid for the economic impulse of coal mining districts are established, through the development of infrastructure projects and restoration of degraded areas due to mining activity. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 28; votes against, 41; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u202	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia on the initiative of Mr Fernández Prado. There seems to be a transaction. If you please read it, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u203	Thank you, President. There is a transaction between the original text and the first point of the amendment of the Socialist Party, ending: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to continue on the road to the Coast of Death, beginning with a first phase connecting Baio and AC-432 towards Camarínhas, analysing the feasibility of incorporating a link with the Vimianzo Industrial Polygon, moving forward this same year in the procedures necessary for drafting the construction project and providing the necessary annualities in the budgets of the Union so that this infrastructure is a reality in this legislation."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u204	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. We voted for the text that has just been read. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia to continue on the road to the Coast of Death. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u205	And finally, we voted for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Presas Berganginos. Amendments to the Socialist and People's Parliamentary Group were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to Law 7/2004 of 16 July, Galicia for equality of women and men. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u206	We are now debating point 5, which corresponds to the question of petitions. La Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the policy of the German Government in relation to the automotive sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u207	Mr Bará has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u208	Good morning. When Members and Ladies and gentlemen were asked to publish notes on the House's website, biographical notes, I wanted to put it as the grandson of Pepa des Laceiras and they didn't leave me. I guess there was a rigid format that didn't fit that format. [[Murmurs.]] I wanted to put there that I am the grandson of Peppers, first of all because I feel very proud to be his grandson, because I was a brave woman, a working woman, an illiterate woman and enormously knew. And he gave me a lesson, a big lesson, which has a lot to do with what we do here, or at least what we do in my political group here. Because when I asked her, Granny, what is it? She said, "It's been a long time, but it's been a long time. So that's a motivation to be in politics, to work in politics, to be in this Parliament. And I bring it here on behalf of these women like her, of Ponte Sampaio, who faced the dragons who wanted to strip the river of Vigo, of the women of Lourizán who faced the jealous and who suffered beatings and imprisonment for it, of the women, finally of Vilaboa or of Salcedo who faced the ruins of the highway. [[Applause]] They are an example for today's struggles, also for the fight in defense of automotive jobs, in defense of labour rights, in defense of all rights that are being annihilated on the pretext of the crisis. We came here to talk about the automotive sector, which is, of course, a strategic sector for our country and, above all, strategic for the region of Vigo. A sector with more than 19,000 direct jobs, which is invoicing in 2005 more than EUR 8,200 million, 15% of GDP or 31% of Welsh exports. They're quantitative data. It's a sector that has strength but, of course, it also has threats, it has weaknesses, it has risks to its future and also to its present. He's in a risk situation, in an emergency situation. Over the past few years approximately 2,000 direct jobs have been lost in the sector, while in northern Portugal they have increased to 6,000 new jobs. And we're not just talking about job destruction. As I said, also on the pretext of the crisis and competition in Portugal, there is increasing pressure on the ground, a permanent blackmail to attack rights, labor gains and wages. We see how wages are falling, how working rhythms are increasingly abusive, what is also seriously affecting health, and how sector agreements are systematically broken down, hiring service companies with their own, or state agreements, which are lower in labour and wage rights. We are therefore talking about a very serious situation, which has been denounced, of course, by the trade unions in the sector — to welcome the presence here of trade union representatives of the Greek automobile — and also denounced by other economic, social and institutional agents of Galicia and the Vigo area. This is a situation that takes place in a region, in addition, where industrial employment has already suffered a severe blow in the naval sector without the German Government, in this case, launching a plan of reactivation and impulse, so necessary in the naval and so necessary in the automotive sector as well. And we don't see it either, in the face of this serious situation, in the case of the automobile. Mr. Counsellor gave me a lot of Industry 4.0, but this is a Industry 4.0 on the run, off north of Portugal. And while the German Government is installed in that purchase, self-comprehensive 4.0, Portugal, of course, is not stopped. Portugal has a strategic country bet on automotive, a state policy, especially in the case of the northern region. They are attracting investments from transnational auxiliary automotive companies, and are even attracting, attracting, which, according to the cluster of the sector, up to a number of 27 are already installed in northern Portugal. They're doing it with state policy, with economic, fiscal and administrative incentives. And also, of course, with measures that can enter into unfair competition, and that also needs to be analysed. And if it wasn't clear that there's a strategy and a distribution of roles and functions, we were perfectly clear when we read the document of the Greek external strategy when we created Resoe. I don't know if Mr. Counsellor Resoe, the southwestern region of Europe, has been a bit of an invention by Mr. Feijóo. He should have been small, and then he created a region more than Galicia-north of Portugal, also with Castile-Leon, which then still expanded with the northern region of Portugal and Asturias. There they created working groups with specific themes where they intend to specialize in each of the areas. And it turns out that Galicia has chosen education and culture as a working group, I+D+i; Castela-León, transport and logistics; the central region of Portugal, demographics; Asturias, tourism and employment. And I don't know if they know that you chose the northern region of Portugal. Then I'll tell him. The northern region of Portugal leads the group on industrial competitiveness, specifically in the field of automotive. Therefore, it is clear that the papers are perfectly distributed and that Galicia assumes that northern Portugal will lead this area. And what is the official position of the German Government? The advisor already knows that it is installed in that self-comprehensive 4.0. Mr. President of the Union, who is absent from this debate, recently spoke in the last plenary session — also with a triumphal speech — that the car industry in 2016 had an increase in its billing from between 5% to 8% or 9%. I don't know, between 5% and 8% or 9% there's still a difference. That the auxiliary industry has increased to 2,000 jobs. I don't know how this is understood, that companies are moving to northern Portugal, that are eliminating jobs, and that 2,000 jobs are increasing. And that also increased billing in this sector. Mr. Rueda, on the other hand, already has a little more prudent speech, a more well-predicted speech. He had an attack of sincerity the other day in Pontevedra, he should have been relaxed at a lunch — he said he was working — with the journalists, and he said they were very worried, that it was a very important problem and that they were analyzing the causes. I hope they don't take long to look at the causes — that they don't take as long as they've been with Plisan, that we'll talk after her — and deal with her and put this situation right. One of the keys has to do with — not the only one, but one of the main — precisely with a competitive advantage that Portugal is having in the supply of business soil and the price of soil. Over the past few years, an auxiliary automotive company has been installed in a German business park, in Molle, at a price of 150 euros a square metre, while 14 have been installed in Portugal and 20 new projects are under way to be installed in northern Portugal. And that's in view of the passivity of the Galician Union to put on the market alone at competitive prices. And we have to talk, of course, about Plisan's case, which has been 17 years of processing, 8 ruling you. So this is not a matter -- as you usually say -- of the two-party government. It's not a matter of the Bipartite, this is from the tripartite: from the Junta, the Port of Vigo and the Free Zone, which are the ones who have to get ahead of this project. So you put the batteries in place, you start them up, you create business soil, you put them on the market at competitive prices, because that train is already losing it, we've already lost it, and the thing can be even more serious. And in the meantime, we see as Portugal itself bet on creating more business soil in Monção, expanding the polygon of Valença with Vilanova de Cerveira, in Viana, or with that port logistics macroplatform of the Port, which will be another competition more to the port of Vigo. And with multiple tax, administrative and economic incentives. You say they're going to study the causes. Let's hope they do it soon. In any case, we want to ask them specific questions. We want to know what strategy they have about the automotive sector, if they have any, because what we're seeing is that there's none. We want to know what plan they have, if they have any, to create business soil and put it on the market at competitive prices and when they're going to launch Plisan de Salvaterra-The Snows. In the last announcement they made, they talked about getting 100,000 square meters into the market and the first companies settled in 2018, 18 years after this project started. This does not take into account some holes, in addition to the huge hole of a million yards that are there and that have to be fixed. He's been told by the same Welsh administration, that he's opened a disciplinary file to fix that huge hole there and that he's reduced Plisan's extension to one fourth. We also want to know about economic aid to the sector. We've already asked the Industry Committee, but the truth is that you're not very transparent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u209	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u210	...on this question. If those millions of euros that are being given to companies are going to serve to avoid job insecurity, to avoid job losses, low wages, contracts for service companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u211	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u212	...and relocation. If you plan to use grant lines to compromise companies in job maintenance and to avoid relocation. And we also want to ask you why they don't take advantage of competitive advantages that Galicia would have, for example, if you set up an own electric tariff. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u213	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bará. If we want to talk about the automotive sector in Galicia, we can quickly find synonyms. So, we're talking about innovation, we're talking about experience, quality employment and we're talking about competitiveness, because that's where the Government of Galicia is working. You know that the modernization of a sector like the automotive sector is not carried out with demands of the last moment — which seems to be what you're doing here this morning, just looking for a headline — but that the modernization of a production sector is done with facts. Facts that have been developed by this Government since 2009 and that respond to an industrial policy that seems to you to know or simply want to omit. An industrial policy focused on the automotive sector, which has been granted support for more than EUR 100 million over the past five years and has mobilised EUR 600 million. Some support that, by the way, your group permanently, in this House and outside this House, always questions and questions, when you know that summons are public, are visible and transparent. In any case, he also knows that these supports have served so that today the automotive industry in Galicia has a consolidated horizon for the next decade, that these 19,000 jobs are linked to important decisions of the Vigo factory to develop two new models in Vigo, both the new K-9 van and the V-20 model, and some jobs that have been growing in recent years. I would recommend that you collect the statistics from the cluster itself, because these jobs are growing at an average rate of 7% in recent years. In fact, those support I referred to earlier are the ones that are allowing the driving industry in Galicia today to be recognized for its competitiveness and to attract new projects to our country. That employment in automotive, logically, part of projects and, above all, part of the capacity our country has to differentiate and, therefore, to be able to compete with other countries, as we did, for example, to win that model of the van — where we had to compete with a country like Slovakia — and that Vigo is recognized within the PSA group itself as one of the most competitive. This is done logically with a concrete policy and concrete action. In fact, even if they don't like it, this government is adduced by Industry 4.0, because, Mr Bará, Industry 4.0 is the one that allows it to be competitive, which allows us to introduce new technologies, which allows us to introduce new constructive processes, which ultimately allows Galicia today to be more competitive and therefore to gain new models. [[Applause]] That means betting on innovation and, therefore, on the development of mixed units, with a mobilization of 22 million euros, and that means that the PSA Group today has Vigo as a reference in the development of the 4.0 factory in the Psa Citroën Group. If this doesn't seem relevant to you, I understand logically the differences it has with this government. In any case, there's a firm bet on Industry 4.0, there's a bet on improving innovation processes and thus creating an open ecosystem of knowledge. You should recognize the success that Galicia had in developing the autonomous car, and how Galicia and Vigo's factory were able to launch that autonomous car project that allowed a car to make a trip from Vigo to Paris through Madrid. That, Mr Bará, is innovation, that's knowledge and that's differentiation of the automotive sector in Galicia. But we're also logically betting on training, we're betting on energy efficiency, we're supporting new projects through both the help of Igape and XesGalice, and facilitating access to financing for the automotive sector. And finally, we're betting on that innovative enterprise through the Business Factory Auto, which will allow you to develop innovative projects and thus differentiate the sector. Because that is, Mr Bará, what will distinguish us not only from Portugal, but from any other country as it may be from Slovakia, as it may be from Morocco, or how it may be any other geographic area. Innovation is the distinguishing element. So we don't share this catastrophic vision that you come here this morning, about the industrial sector or...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u215	Sorry, Counselor. Excuse me, just a moment. I remind the people in the gallery that no sign of approval or disapproval can be made. It's the regulation that's in this House... [[Murmurs.]] So I ask the security service to expel these people from the palace because they are violating the Rules of Procedure of this House. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please leave the peace of Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] I ask you to take the documentation and the names of these people in case you need to do the appropriate diligence. [[Murmurs.]] Please leave the palace. Thank you very much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please leave the room. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counselor, I'm sorry. You can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u216	Logically, as Mr Bará told you, we do not share this kind of attitude or share this catastrophic vision that you bring here today to the House. And we don't share it because this government is developing this industrial policy; because this government is working as a labor authority to preserve the labour rights of workers in the automotive sector; because we are also facilitating agreements in the labour market, and you should also know that the average gross wage in the automotive sector is far above the average wage in the industrial sector. [[Applause]] You're telling me about relocation, and I'm sorry I don't share this vision with you because, frankly, Galicia can't name the word relocation if we talk about the automotive sector. Because what Galicia is doing in the automotive sector with the PSA effort, with the automotive industry's efforts, with the Government's efforts and the lack of collaboration of BNG, is fixing industrial fabric here in the automotive sector. And I should remind you of those purchase volume data from the components of K-9 in Galicia, which are kept at levels similar to their predecessor, the B-9, while the turnover derived from the manufacture of the van is going to increase by more than 6%. Therefore, they are data, Mr Bará, sufficiently powerful. And he also knows that V-20 will allow a billing of 250 million euros, it's 7.500 million euros in the next ten years that are guaranteed by these two projects that bind the PSA factory. I therefore sincerely believe that it is tending to assert that the growth of the automotive industry in Portugal is taking place at the expense of the Galician industry. It is, frankly, trendy because you know that many of the investments that are being made, in any case, come from other countries, but in no case, Mr Bará, and you know, in no case from Galicia. So we will continue to work with the automotive sector. We will continue to work together in the euro area too, which seems to be inappropriate for you now. In fact, Galicia is working in the group... it's working in all groups, in case they don't have that reference. Another thing is that we are actually leading the education and R+D+i group, and that means, Mr Bará, innovation also in the automotive sector. And, above all, what this government is adopting is measures to promote the new facilities in Galicia of companies in the sector, and therefore we are also developing a business soil policy. You should know, Mr Bará, that this government has established bonuses at the price of industrial soil up to 50%, but you should know that — just like in the case of northern Portugal — this Government is developing the possibility of acquiring soil through the right of surface, with an annual cannon that is allowing you to acquire alone through this right of surface at a price of 38 square metre in some cases, in some of the polygons we have here in Galicia. So we will continue to support innovation, we will continue to support industrial soil policy and we will also continue to introduce new means to enable companies to settle here in Galicia. And that's why we're going to promote a business implementation promotion law that allows for greater administrative simplification in project design. Let's also collaborate with Fegamp. Surely some council, particularly Pontevedra, will not do so, but we will try to collaborate for those municipalities that bet on industrialization here in Galicia, which bet on fixing industrial fabric in Galicia, so that through a code of good practice we can facilitate the administrative processing of the different projects and also benefit from the different actions in the fiscal field. Therefore, Mr Bará — and I conclude — the Welsh automotive strategy is to manufacture with the best costs and a better price-quality relationship. That means innovation, that means industry 4.0 and that means new technologies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. For the replica round, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u218	Mr. Count, indeed, you move very well with slogans, with industry 4.0, with innovation, with modernization, with competitiveness and also with propagandistic photos. We've been here for a while, of course, at the size of PSA, and we're not going to deny the economic importance of this company in Galicia, but you've talked a lot about PSA and little about the whole business fabric of the auxiliary industry around it. He told us about large investments, of 100 million euros, of mobilization of up to 600 million euros, but what he's telling us is that all this is for what he's serving is to relocate companies outside Galicia, to take them to Portugal. Because it's not only they're installing companies that come from outside, but they're also moving to northern Portugal. He told us about jobs, quantitative data. All right, it's 19,000 jobs, but we don't just want to talk about numbers, we want to talk about quality of work, working conditions, working rights that are being lost, which are being threatened with apology, excuse, crisis and excuse of Portugal's competition as well. And one thing is the possibility of recovering wages, which are on the levels of the 1990s right now, and another is the difficulty to recover the labor rights that are being lost with all the work reforms that you have implemented. I would recommend that you agree with Mr. Rueda, because they have different speeches. I don't know if they're in the same government, but they have different speeches. You say there's no relocation, I believe you understand this, don't you? That's what you said. He said clearly here: there is no relocation in Galicia. Well, look what Mr. Rueda said, I'll read to you: We're analyzing the causes of the business leak. What do we call corporate flight? Relocation or temporary transfer to another location? Are they analyzing it in the vice-presidency and the Industry Council or are they not analyzing it? The flight of companies that are taking place or that can be produced towards Portugal. They're not anywhere else, they're companies that're moving away, and it's a very worrying thing. Mr. Rueda turns out he's worried a lot, and you come here with an absolutely self-congratulating and triumphal speech. It says: because they are, in addition, consolidated business companies, assistants from large companies here. Besides, the pace of these companies can become an important problem. It can't become, it's already a very important and very serious problem. So what we're seeing is that they're not acting, they're not taking measures to meet the challenge we have, they're not even recognizing -- because you haven't done it here -- the gravity of this situation and this challenge. We see that there are few answers to all the questions we've asked you here. Of course, in business parks you're talking here about prices that are practically gifted, but the reality is that companies have better competitiveness and have larger and better communicated business parks in northern Portugal and are moving there, because they also have other competitive advantages, too, as I said earlier, about tax measures or administrative measures. So, Mr. Conde, you're charging me here with results, but I'm going to bring you a result that also belongs to a news that happened today. Results by autonomous communities, annual rates of change in industrial production. It turns out that Galicia is penultimate in this ranking. Head of Extreme, the state average is 7.1% and Galicia occupies the sad penultimate place with rates of 3.5%, only above Castela-A Mancha, with 2.1%. This is the reality of the industrial sector's figures, and reality is also what happened with the naval sector and what is happening with the automotive sector. So we ask them to commit themselves, we ask them to have a strategy, we ask them to agree, to support the sector, to fight for it and to defend it, because it is really worth having a strong industrial sector, a strong automotive sector, in our country, and of course we will defend it, where we are, the cover and the sword.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u219	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Bará, I understand that you are not attentive when I intervene, I understand it perfectly, but I'm telling you about specific facts, I'm not talking about slogans, except that you understand that the decision of PSA-Peugeot-Citroën to build the new K9 van here in Galicia, and that the decision of the PSA group to develop here the V20 model, that's a slogan. Mr. Bará, that's a business decision that responds to the situation in the automotive sector. I also don't think it's a slogan for the development of the autonomous car, which you should know, by the way, could be developed thanks to a joint unit between the CTAG, the PSA and the Galician Union, for an amount of EUR 4 million, which allowed the project that led to that route of the autonomous car between Vigo and Paris. Mr Bará, they are not slogans, they are realities of the competitiveness of our sector. In fact, when we talk about the automotive sector, we have to talk about competitiveness, and I think I moved it very clearly: Galicia won't compete in wages, Galicia won't compete in working conditions with Portugal or any other country. Galicia wants to compete, in the automotive sector, in innovation, in knowledge, in talent and in Industry 4.0. That is the reality and that is the industrial policy that we are developing, and we are doing it with concrete facts. You should know, because it is published in the Official Journal of Galicia, that Industry 4.0 aid order, which will allow for the collection of R & D+i investments for an amount of 60 million euros and which is also open to the automotive sector. And you should know that the automotive sector also participates in the project Competition of ideas 4.0, in which Ceaga is participating with companies in the sector. So I think you're confusing yourself with the reality of the automotive sector, and that reality is all about very specific facts here. And you should also know that for the development of the K9 and V20 Citroën project, you have announced investments of more than 600 million euros. And you should know, because it was done by the sector itself, that the component industry is going to increase that investment to EUR 3,000 million. And I want to talk to you about realities, Mr Bará, realities you don't know because really, the Galician Nationalist Block industry doesn't interest you, simply. And I assure you, there are investments already undertaken by the GKN Group, by the Copo Group, with an investment of EUR 33 million for an indoor automotive project. You should know that Benteller has already invested 20 million euros to expand its facilities located in the Valadares Technology Park. Or you should know how the BorgWarner Group sets here, in Vigo, its center of R & D+i in recirculation of exhaust gases for the whole world group, and that's a clear answer to how the component industry is also being competitive. And of course this industrial policy focused on R & D+i, centered on Industry 4.0, is accompanied by an industrial soil policy, blessing the industrial soil — as I told you — and also adjuring the surface right with an annual cannon, so you should know, Your Honor, that today the price of the industrial soil owned by Junta does not pose any problem for the settlement of companies in Galicia. Today we are offering the industrial soil at 12 euros per square metre for sale, and we are offering — as I said — 38 cents per square metre and a year on the right surface. And that's an industrial soil policy. Just as we will develop a concrete policy of action to facilitate and speed up administrative procedures in the industrial sector and also in the automotive sector, simplifying all administrative processing by means of a law promoting entrepreneurship. And we will also invite the municipalities to sign that protocol of good practice to give publicity and availability of industrial soil and also to transfer their help. So, Mr Bará, there is an industrial policy in the field of clear, transparent and solid automotive which is allowing the industrial sector to be consolidated, and I am sorry that you come here to talk about relocation. Look, relocation is what your party does in Pontevedra, that's active relocation, with policies that lead a company like Ence to decide to cancel an investment of 50 million euros in Galicia and take that biomass plant to Huelva. That's active relocation by the Galician Nationalist Block. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. We moved on to the next interpellation. Interpellation by D. Antón Sánchez García and D. Marcos Cal Ogango, from G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to the closure of the sale to the public of tickets and of the service of care to the traveller at various railway stations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u222	Mr. Cal Ogong has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u223	Thank you. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, I wanted to take this moment to show my rejection, and the rejection of our group, of the attitude that the president has just had with the workers of Citroën. I think it's too much to take your data. I don't think there was any reason to have such an attitude. We just want to show it. I also want to take advantage because this morning I think it was the worst morning I've ever had in this Chamber, there were many moments when I lost my nerves, because on a day as important as today, in which we are demanding and fighting against the discrimination suffered by women and against macho violence, which take the lives of so many women every year and which make thousands of women live in fear because of this situation, see some reactions and attitudes on the bench of the People's Party, the truth is that it has frustrated me and caused me an important discomfort. I want to remember from here -- I said it from the bench because I wasn't able to contain myself, but I want to say it now from here, which I'm on the stand -- that commitment to equality is shown in budgets, and the People's Party cut 30%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u224	Mr Ogang, get to the point. It's the first call to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u225	...in the equality assumptions and more than 50% in the state So, if you want to show commitment, you'll recover the investment we had before, which was already insufficient, and increase it, and you'll demonstrate some kind of commitment. [[Murmurs.]] I'm on it. I'm going to the subject, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u226	One minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u227	I'm on it. The interpellation we had today, we betrayed the previous plenary session, when we were going to close the sale of tickets and personal attention at different railway stations in the territory of Greece. It was a shame we couldn't debate it at that time, to see with all sincerity what the advice of the Council was. Now, the last bull, it's very easy to adapt the story to the current situation. We don't know what the reason for the absence was, but it was good for the Counsellor. Since the new intention of Renfe and Adif to eliminate presenceal attention at various stations in rural Galician, citizen platforms, trade unions and political organizations has been known, we have mobilized ourselves to demand the Fomento that moves back in this decision to prevent further service. In Valdeorras and Sarria there has been a great citizen activity against the cuts in these railway services. There were several neighbouring concentrations of the neighbors and neighbors of these neighborhoods, gathered from firms, distribution of leaflets, and in Valdeorras they also organized a demanding trip from The Street to The Boat, two of the affected stations, where they participated about 500 neighbors and neighbors. The rapid mobilization of citizenship by visualizing the injustice it intended to commit in these Welsh villages, together with the pressure of railway unions, succeeded in bringing back the Gürtel People's Party Government in an attempt to continue to annihilate services in rural areas. Yesterday, a member of the People's Party spoke in this House in a despective manner about the participation of members of the opposition in citizen mobilizations, mobilizations that do not like the People's Party, except for some exceptions that we all know. And he doesn't like citizen mobilization because mobilization improves for citizenship and reverses unfair situations against government plans. If it hadn't been for the citizen mobilization, the government of the dictatorship with the Minister's Fraga would probably not have ended when it was over. And I want to remember that Fraga was a dictator, because yesterday a member of the People's Party also said surprised, Mr Crespo — I don't know whether he was surprised, outraged or how he feels — that sometimes since the opposition he was bound to the People's Party with the Government of the dictatorship, so I want to remember that the founding father of the People's Party was a dictator who signed death sentences. So, as no one told you yesterday, I'm telling you to remember that this can be one of the reasons why this bond exists. It may also be another reason that the Blue Division was condemned, or it may also be another reason that a few days ago they came out in the defense of the Francisco Franco Foundation in Congress or that they set up zero euros of budgets for the recovery of historical memory. They start correcting that sort of thing, and maybe they stop linking it to the dictatorship government. [[Applause]] Renfe and Adif's intention was to close the sale of tickets and information from Guillarei stations, The Carballiño, Sarria, The Barco, The Street and Ribadavia in 2007, leaving important population nuclei without the present information and sales service of tickets, in addition to the fact that they knew the closure of the stations, that they would in any case remain without the personnel who attends an important amount and travellers, further prepricing the railway service in the Italian countryside; in an already precarious situation, as we know. In total, I intended to leave the more than 50,000 people who, after the year, will buy tickets to these stations, and nearly 200,000 travellers and travelers who use these stations every year as their origin or destination. They wouldn't have personal information and sales to whom to go if the plans of Renfe travelers, Adif and Development took effect. This unfortunate intention to close the passenger's face-to-face attention at the stations of Sarria, Guillarei, The Carballiño, The Boat, The Street and Ribadavia is part of a continuous and unstoppable process of degradation of the service that has been applied in recent years. This closure, in addition to trying to steal a part of Galician society, is a fundamental service such as sale, personal information and the opening of vestibules, would assume the transfer of this staff to other divisions of the company, with the consequences that we can all understand it would have to them. The process of these last few years is pursuing a final objective: the dismantling of all passenger services from all stations not in the cities of Greece, in order to achieve a decrease in use and occupation that serves after a pretext for their definitive closure. This decision would leave nearly 200,000 passengers and travellers without service, making it difficult for ordinary users, but also reducing quality and therefore the image that we receive from the many tourists who use this service. From this parliamentary group we do not understand how it could be proposed that the alternative be self-sale points, which only accept the card payment, making it easier, once again, the banking business against the current reality, where 90% of users and users buy the metal tickets. The direct sales workers also guarantee a very important issue, the opening of the halls of those stations, a fact that could not be done with the new model that Renfe and Adif wanted, which means that in many cases users are affected by the inconsistency of time and therefore a more element of deterioration of service and the loss of potential users. We believe there were more than reasons to not even pose this option, and not force citizenship to have to mobilize itself and have to spend its money to denounce this injustice and be able to move back. The history of the railway in Galicia is the history of the dismantling of the rural train, the dismantling of the proximity train, the fall of the services in the transport of goods, the disconnection with the axes of European commodities and the insufficiency in the service of the lines we count at this time, which is not sustained from a perspective of ruling in the key of the country, of future, of sustainability, of fighting against climate change, of security for citizenship, of energy efficiency and of guaranteeing the right of citizenship to mobility. The latter dramatically affects the citizenship that lives in rural Galician. It is not sustainable from the common sense, from rationality, that budgets are invested in miles of roads and motorways — in many cases of doubtful efficiency — and is not decidedly betted by rail transport. We have to ask who these policies benefit, because it is evidenced that it is not citizenship, both for the loss of services and for the environmental, security and economic consequences. Public transport, we know that it has many economic, environmental and social advantages over individual transport, and rail, of all public transport, is the greatest proportional advantage, but Galicia does not take advantage of its potential. The train is the safest, most environmentally sound, economical, fast and comfortable transport. So the most logical thing is to put the German railway lines to transport all their potential on travellers, itineraries and frequencies. In Galicia we need to move forward in the railway service and not go back, because the data is demolition. The disproportion in rail use in front of the road is enormous: only about 5% of travellers travel by train, against 91% by car; while 82% of goods travel by truck, and only 3.8% by train. These are figures that are far from desirable, which are far below the European average, which is already low, where we see countries like Austria where almost 50% of the commodities are transported by rail. At the previous meeting of the Council we have already missed a lot — as I said in another speech — that I spent time talking about rail transport. So we'd like you to take this moment to explain to us what you've planned to do, because this topic is theoretically resolved. So, what we'd like to know is whether the Greek Government can guarantee the maintenance of all the railway services it counts with at this time Galicia. And if you think the German Government is working on improving and dynamizing the railway service of goods and passengers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u229	...in Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u231	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Cal, of course I would point out to you the reason for this question: because we are also defending the interests of the Greeks in Madrid by constituting the AP-9 bilateral Commission and having the first meeting of the AP-9 bilateral Commission. Therefore, defending the interests of the Greeks, which is what we belong to. By the way, I gladly answer this question — I have had the opportunity to deal with this issue last January — and I very much say because Adif has confirmed that this issue is already a matter of the past, it is an issue that has already been resolved, and, in fact, with the short time he has devoted in his intervention on this matter, you even acknowledge that the subject is settled. In any case, surprised, because it is true that with this matter you do not seem to have a parliamentary group in Madrid. But don't get me wrong, I'm really going to report to you the management that you did to Galician Union and how Adif confirmed that the service is guaranteed and will continue to be guaranteed. In the previous plenary session, I had already confirmed that the German Government is following with particular attention the task of re-ordinating functions of the Adif Circulation and Renfe staff. The possible consequences that could have on several railway stations in our community: The Street, The Boat, Ribadavia, The Carballin, Sarria and Guillarei. We were worried at the Galician board and kept on watch and in permanent and personal contact with both the staff and the officials of Renfe and the officials of Adif. And demanding what we need: that the quality of the service be guaranteed and that the workers' rights also be guaranteed. After a little over a month, I can confirm to you that the management of the board and the concern of the board have given its results, and as I tell you, this is already a settled issue, it's a matter of the past. What I can confirm to you is Adif's confirmation that all Galician railway stations will remain open and maintaining ticket sales services. I'll report to you, and I'll take a brief review of what were the managements of the Galician Union and its background. At this point, as you will know, we are addressing with dialogue the working conditions of the commercial channel of Adif to Renfe; a process of operational and functional adjustment between Adif and Renfe, with the transvasion of personnel assigned to the sales channel. So we're talking about the Adif staff from stations that have staff dedicated exclusively to the sale of tickets without having in Renfe operator, so that it's Renfe's workers who do that ticket sales job. This seems reasonable in principle, and the fact that it didn't happen today is for historical reasons; you know of the split carried out in 2005 by dividing Renfe and Adif. Therefore, in this division the ticket sales staff remained in Adif, and at this moment, in small stations, the staff of Adif Circulation compatible the ticket sales tasks with the tasks proper to the management of the infrastructure itself. So, in these terminals, the Adif Circulation staff has infrastructure management tasks, for example, the change of needles, but they're also doing information and ticket sales jobs, even though that's not their main task. So we're talking about a process of dialogue, of personnel transvasion, which is being approached with consensus between Adif, Renfe and trade unions. In any case, confirmation, of course, that this will not, I suppose, nor will it suppose, a decrease in the provision of the service, because this has personally transferred the president of Adif to me. Transvasion will have no impact on service delivery, no decrease or impact on travellers. And the truth is, the adjustment to Adef's staff and Renfe's staff has generated some kind of dissatisfaction and social alarm, especially social alarm. From the very first moment, since we've had a record of this anxiety, the board has made a special follow-up. We are concerned, we address the leaders of Adif and Renfe, we have been vigilant and vigilant, and — I insist — in permanent contact with those responsible for Renfe and Adif, making special interest. So I can confirm to you that the board has been very active to guarantee mobility and also the railway services of the Greeks. So it's settled. But quite a bit more, it's also a matter that we moved to the meeting we had with the minister last January 31st. In this meeting with the Minister we also asked him for timely information, which he had already defined for reorganization, and of course we again demand that the service and the workers' rights be guaranteed. 15 days after that meeting, an initiative was reached in this House on the issue of the sale of tickets at certain railway stations in Galicia; an initiative which was unanimously adopted and which the German Government transferred immediately also, fulfilling the parliamentary mandate. We transferred it immediately to Adif and requested the maintenance of the ticket sales service. Therefore, Mr. Cal, I believe that no one can deny the concern, the work and the initiative of the Galician Union, and we involve ourselves, of course, in order to guarantee this service. Therefore, the diligence and firmness of the Council of Galicia. Diligently, moving to Adif, Renfe and the Minister of Development himself to that social alarm that was being generated here. And we acted firmly by demanding and ensuring that the service was rendered in quality and also the workers' rights. Of course, rural people are indispensable to us. We don't understand a prosperous Galicia without a live and active rural, and so we've seen it showing it with all the programs we've been running. And of course, the train uses the younger ones and also the bigger ones; therefore, knowing that our older ones also use the train and they have the right to use the train, we had to bear in mind that we had to demand that this sale of tickets be guaranteed at the Greek stations. Therefore, efforts by the Greek Government that I think they deserved it. We confirm that Adif will not abolish or abolish ticket sales services nor close any of the railway terminals, and so he transferred me — I insist — personally last Thursday the President of Adif, both personally and in writing, and also to the mayors of the different municipalities of those stations. The chief of Adif, therefore, confirms that he didn't eliminate or delete any ticket sales services at those stations. Ratify that the company's Circulation staff will continue to perform commercial functions. And he maintains that at no time was the closure of these stations. I'm also specific to the confusion about this service. The truth is, they're really pushing for the improvement of operation and the goal of secure, sustainable and efficient transport. And that process of modernization in the future may even allow the installation of complementary services such as self-sales machines, but at no time will it imply the loss or loss of services. In short, Adif Circulation staff will continue to perform commercial functions and these terminals will remain open for the sale of tickets, so the matter is settled. I'm done. One point again. The Galician Union of course bets on rurals, for better opportunities and services in rurals. There's a comprehensive and coordinated policy with all the departments of the Galician Union. I insist again that since the first meeting of Galicia - and, of course, myself - we do not understand a thriving Galicia without a living and active rural. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u232	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Cal Ogong has his word on the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u233	Thank you, President. I'm glad to hear that we have a guarantee that these services will not be withdrawn, because by Adif's letter we understand that it was. And we also liked to hear it from the Infrastructure Council, because we had this welcome interpellation. He said we have a group in Madrid. We have a group in Madrid, of course, and we have very good communication; but the Madrid group could not give us absolute assurance, until — if I am not mistaken — two or three days ago that these letters — or that they came to us — came to us, that this was so. And there was no absolute guarantee because there was no communication saying that this would not happen. We've been on this subject for about two months, with mobilizations, with concern for citizenship in relation to this matter, and there were no messages saying that this was not going to happen; and of course there were no powerful messages. You're now here talking about what Adif did, but we... that's why he told him he was playing with advantage, because once it happens it's very easy to adapt the story. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We want to know what you think. We want to know what the Infrastructure Council thinks about this because during this time we haven't seen the Infrastructure Council. You say you've been working, that you've been watching, that you've been very active, but we haven't seen messages from the Council saying that you were active, that you were watching and that you were working on that didn't happen. So that's why I'm telling you that you can tell that you've been working, but we haven't seen your messages or your communiqués saying they were working on that matter. So, let me... well, there are things I can't say, I can't say what I was going to say, but you're going to let me put it, at least, in doubt. With regard to rural areas, you have just commented on it now, because we can take advantage of this second intervention to speak generically of the railway council's bettings. As I tell you, in your audience you didn't talk about it, the only thing you talked about was the deadlines you won't meet with the AVE, and nothing else. And he talked about rural, that legislation that for the People's Party is the legislation of rural, and that's why we may also vote more than that constraint during this period, defending these services in rural areas; because for rural mobility it is essential that these services be maintained, and that's why we are also surprised, especially, being this rural candidacy for you, for Mr Feijóo, as throughout this time there was no clear and public defence of these services. We would like to know whether, in addition to maintaining these services, you are planning to extend some kind of plan for rail mobility in rural areas, knowing — as I said in the first intervention — that is the safest, most environmentally friendly and more efficient transport against climate control. There is also another question that I would like to know — if you can now comment on the second intervention — which is what the Infrastructure Council measures are, or what the following are, in order to be able to reconcile with the Environment Council, which says that it intends to make Galicia a reference in the conservation of the environment. High-capacity pathways and individual motor transport, of course, with CO2 generation, are the most detrimental mobility for this task. So, does the Infrastructure Council take into account political lines to be energetically efficient and to fight climate change, or is there any measure on this line? Because until now what we know is that the construction of high-capacity tracks, of course, does not go in that direction, and, what are you going to do that Mrs. Mato can't accomplish her goal? I want to finish with one last thing. You have an absolute majority here — I believe they have said it once — in Parliament, and I believe that to the Greeks and to the Greeks they would like that absolute majority — that is the only absolute majority that exists throughout the state — to be used to defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks with a bluntness; because if that absolute majority only serves to remind us here again and again, to avoid debates and not to enter the background of debate, say that all those things that are done wrong are justified because they have an absolute majority, I want to invite them to use that absolute majority to build a better Galician for the Greeks and the Greeks, and that they use it to be blunt when from the State Government, from Fomento, if they want to close services in rural Galicia, that you are blunt and with that absolute majority go out publicly to defend the interests of Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u234	Thank you very much, Mr Ogong. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u235	Thank you, President. Mr. Cal, there's an important difference between you and us. We work for the good of the Greeks, you're only looking for headlines. I think if every phone call I have to make a press note, that's what you'd do, every call, at best, they'd make a press note. [[Applause]] But I insist, I think you don't seem to have a parliamentary group in Madrid. With all modesty, and with humility, I tell you that the results — so I learned it, and what you learn as a child never forgets — you can work, exert yourself and get involved; not, at best, talking about anything else and taking notes from the press. So this is the result of the work we've been doing in the last few months before Madrid. The truth is that by speaking of rural areas, we have, of course, the fully traced roadmap, a transversal and coordinated policy among all the departments of Galicia for rural dynamization, with fiscal measures, tax measures, housing measures, infrastructure measures, sustainable mobility, of course yes; we are also promoting sustainable mobility in measures such as recently adopted by the Council of Galicia: a new training and rural entrepreneurship programme, with more than 30 million euros, and among them, of course, are A Street and Ribadavia; zero rural taxes for the purchase of a typical rural housing. And with regard to this own board, there are important initiatives in the area of housing. Full rehabilitation areas, help for ARI calls. Also the Rexurde Program, a program for direct rehabilitation of the Galician Union to revive the rural nuclei, the historical helmets, the Rexurde Program that we've already started and started. And in public transport, we're also working on strategic planning. Let me tell you that modes of transport must not compete with each other, they must complement each other, and we cannot really think of the train reaching all over the place. I think they have to complement the different modes of transport, as well as we do strategic planning at the Galician Union. So, since Galician union we're 100% committed to the rural neighbours, that I can assure you. So we bet on the future of the Greeks, greater opportunities, more competitiveness, both from our competences and also from railway services, and we look to the future. Looking for the future is demanding and demanding a high-speed line that connects Galicia to Madrid, looking for the future is leading the claim of railway improvements to Lugo and also Ferrol, and that's what we lead. And looking for the future is also to be active and demanding to count on quality of services and continuous improvement of services in response to demands, the needs of citizens. [[Applause]] We are concerned, we are concerned about this orderly transvasion of personnel from Adif Circulation to Renfe, we have been — I insist — in permanent contact, taking the matter to the meeting we had with the Minister of Development. We moved the concern of the neighbors of the Barco, the Street, the Carballin of Ribadavia, the Sarria and Guillarei, we transferred it from Junta de Galicia to the Ministry of Development. And since June, we can understand that the proposed shift in staff transfer between Adif and Renfe is done to achieve a better distribution of functions, but we always defend that workers' rights must be met and a quality service must be given. That is what we have been defending all these past few months on this issue, and of course on the rest of the matters. This is what we insist on, and therefore I will insist: we achieve it, we have reached our expectations. The president of Adif has transferred to the Galician board which has neither removed nor abolished any ticket sales service at the Galley railway stations. So you never thought about the closure, there will be no closures in Galicia railway stations on the sale of tickets. So, I think it's a good news, a good news that we should congratulate ourselves and, of course, that we have celebrated since the Council of Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u236	Thank you, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández's interview with G.P. de En Marea, on health policy in the area of health of Pontevedra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u237	Mrs. Solla has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u238	Thank you. Before I begin, and if I may the counselor, I want to transfer that there is no feminism with no label or feminism. That morning we heard something quite absurd. First they called us fedazis. Please, I beg you to respect what you're intervening. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They used to call us feudazis, and as it seems that feminism now has a lot of social acceptance, they intend to do that technique that is to appropriate the name. Either you're a feminist or you're not a feminist. And, of course, to approve budgets that cut into gender policies and social services is not to be a feminist. [[Applause]] And since it's March 8 and we're with an interpellation that has to do with public health, we must remember the women who have sustained most of the care tasks for centuries, the care that are, too, the basis of my nursing profession and the base of health. Thanks to nurses, assistants, doctors, techniques, captors, physiotherapists and others that make it possible to support our health system. It is therefore necessary to pay tribute here too to Olympia Valencia, the first Greek medical woman, who was also honored a few months ago by the brotherhood of Greek health and health. Mr. Almuña, I think we are now in the forefront of the question that the People's Party was bringing to you, I suppose, so that you might be able to announce the tendering of the functional plan of the Pontevedra health area. We knew we were falling, we figured you guys were going to announce something, something to cover up that this year, too, there's not going to be an extension of Montecelo, and it's been eight years. Something to counter that there is a popular legislative initiative, which is underway, which has already finished collecting signatures and which calls for an extension of the Montecelo Hospital, which has been claiming eight years, with 100% public funding, and the health use of the current provincial hospital, which you seem to think empty. Today, it is explained, therefore, that the decision of a government that has lost two legislations trying to sell us the need for a public-private hospital in Monte Carrasco, when all professionals, users, public health defenders, demanded the extension of the Montecelo Hospital. As soon as the People's Party entered, it addressed this need by eliminating it, saying that what was to be done was to try to build a PFI hospital in Monte Carrasco, a hospital, we understand, with the same problems, therefore, of the new Vigo hospital, and with the economic consequences that it is having in health budgets. The eight-year-old decision to defiant in an absurd and megalomanic project until they were overcome, precisely by the pressure of activism by the struggle in defense of public health. And after winning the elections, during the election campaign itself, the Government has gone back and promised that expansion, and now we see how in the 2017 budget they lose that opportunity again by planning something that is miserous to what has to be the construction or extension of a hospital, which is a million euros, which indicates that this year is not going to start the project either. We're not going to have Montecelo enlargement in 2017. We add another year, and therefore we want to ask you, Mr. Almuña, today to tell us what the deadlines are for you to estimate that the proposed enlargement project will be auctioned and adjudicated. Date, or, if you can't — because you usually never want to give us dates — the approximate quarter in which you're going to bid this project. So we want people to move to the hospital, the people who work in that hospital, the bridgekeepers and the bridgekeepers, to continue without knowing when that hospital is going to be expanded to transfer some of the services that are now in the province. But, moreover, Counsellor, we asked you to clarify also what the financing model is going to be, because of course, you had to go back to the new hospital in Monte Carrasco, in that PFI, but you didn't say whether the financing of enlargement would be fully public or whether you would choose, too, for a public-private collaboration, because you could do it. We want, Mr. Almuño, to ensure today that the funding will be 100% public. We want you to tell us, too, if you're planning, if you're planning, that the parking lot in the centre is free, that sick people and workers don't have to pay for going to the hospital, or if you think about doing it as you've already done at the Vigo hospital, or how you're going to ask — according to a question you answered to this honourable Member — at the hospital in Ourense. We've moved on other occasions that it's unacceptable to pay for going to a hospital or paying to be able to work in a hospital, but, above all, when it's voluntary, when in this case it's only up to the Galician board to decide, because there's space, to make a public or private parking lot. There are parking problems in Montecelo, but there are also parking problems in the provincial hospital, a center that we visit this week's companion Marcos Cal and me, and that has multiple deficiencies that obviously justify the need for this expansion of Montecelo. However, these deficiencies are not this week, they are not after the autonomous elections, but they are the same as those that existed in these last legislations and which give the seriousness that you have done nothing in two legislates. There are areas of unwashed consultations, there are problems with architectural barriers, there are, besides, people who have to work, like radiologists and radiologists, in tiny cubicles, without ventilation, without windows, with super-straighted corridors. The building also consists in some areas of uralite roofs that should legally be removed, there are extremely uncomfortable and small hospitalization areas, as it may be in internal medicine, but, above all, there is a problem that everyone knows, which is the heat inside the building and which makes in summer 35 degrees centigrade within a hospital. So that gives the gravity of having waited eight years without doing anything at all. And since it seems that this work is not going to start, because by planning a million euros it is obvious that it will not end, that this work is not going to be done this year, we also want them to tell us whether while this work is not being carried out they will take some kind of measure in the face of this degradation situation and in the face of the situation they live, because the people who have to come will get dizzy. We were moved that obstetricians and other sick people get dizzy with the heat that goes to the hospital in the summer months, and the workers, of course. In fact, it doesn't allow the law to work or be taken care of in a center at 35 degrees temperature. It was hot the other day and we're not yet in spring. So what steps are you going to take to solve the most serious problems, at least as long as you don't extend Montecelo's hospital? But unfortunately, in addition to these concerns and this problem it is added that, when you have just proposed precisely the drafting of the functional plan, we know that you do not respect or even respect it, because the Social Policy Adviser, who came here yesterday in Parliament, has come forward to you, and has already confirmed that you think that the current provincial hospital is empty of health content against what workers and workers claim and against what users claim. It's absurd that you bid for the drafting of a project -- that, by the way, you should make that functional plan with and with professionals and not just just to hire it; it's a paripé -- and that, even when it's not done yet, move since you've already decided that you're going to make a residential center in the provincial hospital, when, in addition, they have very close dependencies, practically next to them, which are asylum-free, totally empty. Therefore, Counselor, we want you to answer all these questions. Please answer them, don't do them like you did on other occasions and don't answer them. What are the deadlines for the project bid? What are the deadlines for the work? How will the financing of this work be? We want you to tell us that it's going to be a hundred percent public, if you've got the parking model forecast and what you're going to do with the provincial hospital. Of course, it seems to us that, sorry to have spoiled the announcement, you must realize here what you're going to do with the health of an area that's been waiting for eight years for the decision of the People's Party Government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u240	Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Solla, thank you very much for your questions. Not only does he ask me the questions, but he even gives me the answers. That makes my work quite easy. [[Applause]] Curiously, he has a rather short memory because he talks about eight years of decision in Pontevedra. It doesn't seem to include the Bipartite period. But I want to tell you, Montecelo hospital has been doing works for many years. I can recall that between 1996 and 2005 there were actions involving 45,000 square meters, 24,000 reform and 21,000 new work; an urbanization of 16,000 square meters, with a total investment of 49 million euros. In 2005, the invitation to tender for the drafting service of the functional program project, the sectoral project of supra-municipal impact... - in 2005, I do not know whether it is agreed, exactly in the final part of the former government of President Fraga - that led to the execution of phase 4 - already made the other three - with a budget forecast of 46 million euros. [[Murmurs.]] This was 2005. In fact, in January 2006, the drafting contract mentioned in the amount of 997,000 was signed and with a run term of 13 months. During the development of this drafting, the new health team emerged after the elections in 2005 - as I say, Ms. María José Rubio was the advisor at that time - reviewed the initial program by recasting the functional plan of the complex, which was translated into the architecture of the proposed solution. The existing one is not contemplated with a new building, but the whole complex is remodeled. The Bipartite project of enlargement of Montecelo towards the hillside, for which several projects presented themselves without any action, we understand that it presented a rigid design, without the possibility of improvement or enlargement, with constructive difficulties and limitations resulting from access problems. In addition, the planned initial project had serious uncertainties about the viability of the construction process and the costs, as well as the difficulties of having to live with the works with the functionality of a hospital for years. A legislation has passed, and what was the result? Zero. It's quite typical when he governs the left to speak a lot, to protest a lot, being in opposition, but when they get to the government, they don't do anything at all. With which a project was attempted that was very good for Pontevedra, the Monte Carrasco project, but it had a problem for us, that there was no social or political consensus of what the magnitude of change at the level of an area such as the Pontevedra area, a very important area for the next thirty or forty years. At this point, we achieved something that seemed difficult — although you said the announcement of the People's Party, the Government and the Council of Galicia came out; I think you don't like it, but that's it — we even managed to get the spokesperson of En Marea in the Pontevedra Town Hall to agree. And, in fact, it was unanimously adopted the agreement that will provide the enlargement of Gran Montecelo with an budget, with an economic bet of services, so that we can achieve this, something which, in addition, you seem to say is good, that it is necessary, but at the same time tell us that the provincial hospital should have a acute health system. What's going on is that it's in contradiction. We can't talk about what we're going to do with Gran Montecelo doubling the surface of land occupation, but increasing more than twice the current building, and that we're going to concentrate precisely all the performances, and at the same time want us to do acute health care in the provincial hospital. The provincial hospital has a number of deficiencies, as you well say, and we're doing works on an ongoing basis. There was an incident in the psychiatry area, and now the psychiatry zone is completely new, following all the latest advances that we have in hospitalization of psychiatric areas. But there's also a recent surgical block where you're intervening in a very proper way, there's the day-to-day hospital being cleared and there's action being done to try to improve from here what we can concentrate on in the building of Gran Montecelo, which is the care activity. At this point in Pontevedra we had one part of the professionals in Molllabao, in the Provincial Hospital elsewhere and in Montecelo another. In this way we will try to ensure that all the performance, all acute health care can be carried out in a single building. If it is true - and we point it out - that there may be some medical end at the Provincial Hospital, referring to the outpatient theme, possibly referring to some pathology that may be in the center of the city, which we believe to be consistent; but in the huge building of the Provincial Hospital, of course, there is no possibility of acute health care, especially because, as I said before, we will greatly increase what is building in Gran Montecelo. So what we can do is to reach an agreement with all the Pontevedra groups, but not only with Pontevedra groups, but also with citizens' associations as well as with neighbouring municipalities. We've introduced all of them in the last few days of what we want to do, and right now we're at the most important stage for me, which is the development phase of the space plan and the functional plan, where we're defining services, the size of services, and the implication is being very important. He said we didn't count on professionals. No, no, we're just counting on all the professionals and we also have open lines with citizenship. We're, through the website too, with... we're going to take out in the next few days the possibility of doing it in writing so that they leave their opinions in mailboxes in the complex, and I think participation is being very, very active. As I say, the most important part that can be done by defining the health area is this space plan, that functional plan that defines us for the next thirty or forty years, the Gran Montecelo hospital. And, fruit of that, as I say, soon - to give you concrete dates - in May, we understand it will be closed, and at the same time as we close this we will already open the bidding of the sectoral plan. The sector plan, as you well know, is a complex urban change to be able to do what we want to do. It was also an election between the Council and the Council of Pontevedra to be able to do it as a sectoral plan and not as a supra-municipal impact and not from there, because the same Council of Pontevedra believed it was much more agile and fast. And that's how we're going to do it. We're going to do the sectoral plan, we're going to make the expropriations, we're going to do the environmental impact project, and we're going to do the execution plan as well as what the building is. That's why it's explained that in this year's budget, the amount is the amount to make the space plan and the sectoral plan, because the deadlines are the deadlines. We're going to try to shorten them as short as possible, but obviously this year we're not going to do any work. It surprises me that your partner in the Pontevedra Town Hall could not comment on you, because there are deadlines and we know - and they also know - how long a sectoral plan takes and, logically, until the end of 2018, the beginning of 2019 - these are the dates we gave - there can be no work in Pontevedra. I hope we can advance it, but of course we don't... these deadlines are not invented now, these deadlines have already been given at that first meeting with the municipal groups, after consulting both the Council and the Council of Pontevedra technicians, and these are the legal deadlines we have. Shall we try to shorten them? Yes, we'll try to shorten them, but they have the margin they have. As I say, the implication and I believe that the great challenge - and it has been accepted - is to achieve a future project for the metropolitan area of Pontevedra, a challenge in which both politicians, associations and professionals agree; they agree with that, and I think that's where we're going from. From there, logically, in the definition at this time of the different services we will not enter nor, of course, today in the type of parking, this goes into the work. If there is a possibility at a constructive level -- normally architects do so -- that there may be a underground parking, there will be underground parking, but it's not the time, and I can't say at this point clearly because it has to be in the execution project. And there's also the commitment, within what I was talking about with the Pontevedra Town Hall agreement, that there will be a lot of surface parking lots that will try to fix from the Town Hall itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u241	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u242	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, it's normal for the constables in Pontevedra to agree. We've been agreeing for ten years to expand Montecelo! Those who disagreed until now were you, who wanted to do a PFI hospital in Monte Carrasco. Logically, we agree. And, look, the reason I'm talking about the People's Party governments is not because I have a complaint with the Bipartite but because, precisely, there was a project -- what you talked about here -- to make an extension of the Montecelo Hospital, and you were the ones who changed the idea and decided that they wanted a public-private hospital in Monte Carrasco. You were the ones who changed the consensus that was before. If you didn't like the project you had and you held here that you had deficiencies, why didn't the first year of government of the first People's Party legislation draft another public hospital project, the extension of the public hospital in Montecelo? Obviously, that kind of argument is not supported to try to transfer that we have an interested position. We don't have it. We want, from the very beginning, of course, of the entrance of the People's Party, that expansion of Montecelo, because of course we have to move the hospital services to that enlargement. The ones that changed were you. And I'm really glad, honestly, to tell you, that you recognize that you had to change that model. You said there was no consensus. Obviously, everyone except the People's Party was against that Monte Carrasco hospital. And I don't know if you've misunderstood me or didn't want to understand me because I support that we defend the health use of the provincial hospital doesn't mean that it's to be careful. In fact, I just moved it that we defended that expansion of Montecelo from the beginning, before the People's Party changed its mind. We want it to be a health use, and it's not necessarily the same, as you know much better than I do, because there can be an ongoing point of care, you can install a health center, you can install specialized consultations, you know that right now they are divided also in Mollabao and the provincial hospital, and you can give high-resolution consultations, because you can leave the radiology service or a service in a small laboratory and you can even install the home hospital base. That's what you're asking for, not that you keep what you're asking for, that you move, precisely, Montecelo for a decade. In addition, you have other places to make that older residence, which, of course, you also need; but to me what calls my attention — and let me tell you, I told you before — is that you now bid for the design of the functional plan and that, however, the Social Policy Adviser — had told you yesterday at the meeting — say that what you're going to go to the provincial hospital is not health services. He said at the show. Maybe you don't agree between the different councils, but that's what moved us. And, as we figured out, we're going to move it to the next plenary because, obviously, you know we're going to have an opportunity to debate En Marea's motion. Thank you for giving me the approximate dates. Obviously, it is confirmed that you will not have that expansion this year, but yet you have forgotten to answer about what the financing model is going to be and if you finally discard a public-private collaboration. I think it was a spook, who forgot to answer it. I'd like you to clarify to us that funding is going to be entirely public and that we don't have to suffer as much as we suffer from the new hospital in Vigo. You were talking here that the model of the parking lot is related to construction, however, is a political decision. You're not in an area where there can't be a free and public parking lot, even if it hasn't been done on the surface. The decision that parking loters be public is a political, non-constructive decision, and therefore depends on the current Galician union if the project is to be carried out. So, Mr. Almuña, I've already moved you that what we're going to continue to defend -- and I ask you to answer in this sense -- is that health services are maintained at the Provincial Hospital, that enlargement is done as soon as possible and that it is funded 100 percent public. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close this interrogation, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u244	Mr. President. Yes, yes, Mrs Solla, the truth is that, in the end, I was surprised by the final part of this intervention of yours, because it always goes against everything and, in the end, it is practically according to everything we present. So I think it is necessary to have a total and absolute agreement. And I want to tell you that, look, we've moved Montecelo... because he's talking about enlargement, but there's a lot of kinds of enlargement in Montecelo. What was intended from the Bipartite was an enlargement which, as I said before, what happens is that you didn't listen to me, it was on the hillside, and the hillside would mortgage many things, among them access. It would have to change what was the access vial, which was a very important vial. But it would also have to break the last remodeled part of Montecelo and work in a hospital with works. In this case, the model that we present, an accepted model, is a lateral expansion, where we will be able to build without affecting for anything the care activity. That's a very important change. I mean, when you talk about the Provincial Hospital, I agree with you, but that's exactly what you're defining, the possibility that you're next to the 061 mental health unit. That's what they're working on, but the provincial hospital building has a lot of square meters. Obviously, with this we're talking about, we're talking about a small part, and we're not going to leave an empty building, we're going to use it, we're going to use it to the end that the population of Pontevedra needs; and, of course, the Sociosanitary needs it the city of Pontevedra, and we're also going to need another kind of minor performances instead of extension, instead of the surface, as we were talking about. That's why it's open and they're defining it, they're defining it by professionals, but obviously Social Policy and the Health Counsellor go perfectly hand in hand and try to solve citizens' problems, because citizens' problems are not advice. I think coordination is extraordinary within the Union, and especially with the Social Policy Council. You were talking about Vigo's spook. Well, it's also a bad day to talk about this spooky Vigo, because some people I suppose you know turned out to have filed a complaint against Vigo's procedure in the European Union and it seems they didn't like what the European Union said, which said what had been done was right. Look, that's within European law and you can use it perfectly, and I say more, I know that you don't belong to the Bipartite -- although I often don't know who was from the Bipartite and who wasn't, because there were many changes at that time -- but the Socialist Party -- Mr. Losada raised his hand, so he was one -- and the Block was the first to talk about public-private collaboration in health. The Secretary General of the Health Council at that time went to see models for Balearics and elsewhere. So don't tell me that... but it's not illegal either. This is not illegal, and the European Union seems to ratify that the Vigo model was not illegal. Now, I want to tell you right now that every thing has its own time, and right now we understand that in Pontevedra we're not going to use that formula, but not because it's illegal or bad, but simply because the economic conditions of the Government have changed -- and I think that's positive -- and because Galicia is better now than when the President of Galician Union, the Government of Galician Union has decided to improve Vigo's conditions. Vigo's health had a lot of deficits, a lot, and so someone in a difficult time says, here's a change to make. And he did it with the legal and possible aspects that we had at that time. I think it was a right decision. At this point in Pontevedra it won't be that way because the circumstances, thanks to the work of all the Greeks, are improving; we're in different conditions. So I ask all groups to support this great project in Pontevedra because I think it will be a very important change, even though in Pontevedra today they have the best health statistics. Even the mayor of Pontevedra himself - a doctor of profession who knows the area very well and knows the health - acknowledged that the area of Pontevedra has good health. But we don't just want to talk about health right now. The waiting time ratio in surgical activity is 38.2 days, there were 23,000 revenues, 19,000 interventions and over 450,000 consultations. I think we're, of course, on a high level, but we want this level to be equal or higher within thirty or forty years, even though what we have. That's why we appreciate the collaboration of professionals. Today, of course, is a very special day to say that health is essentially feminine. All life has been, and thanks to the personal treatment and professionalism of all of them, we have the health we have. The magnificent Greek health we have, of course, is thanks to women, and that's why we ask them and thank them for the collaboration of all political groups, as well as of professionals and associations to make a very good project for the Pontevedra area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u245	Thank you, Counselor. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u246	Before I suspend the session until late in the afternoon, I want to report a change in the agenda. It is already talking to the people concerned, and it will be in particular that questions 6 and 7, which we will discuss in a cumulative way, are finally being debated, within the course of questions to the Government. We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u247	We resumed the session with appeals. Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Greek Government on equality in work between women and men
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u248	Mrs. Blanco has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u249	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon to you too, Counselor. Today, in which many Members and Members are making special mention of some women, I want mine to be for Pepa Noia, one of the founding women of the Mothers of the Plaza de May—which many of you don't know, but their origins are in Ourense province—a brave woman, of whom we feel particularly proud; a woman who has worked in the textile sector, the one who has suffered so much in the last few years in our autonomous community. For today, in a special way, the solidarity of the entire Socialist Group with the workers of Galician textiles, with the workers of White, Viriato, Caramelo, Mafeco, Adolfo Domínguez and other companies who have suffered ERE in these last years and who have suffered ill, both they and their families. [[Applause]] With regard to inequality in the labour market, there are several theories. There is one that is negationism, which is true that it still exists. There are people, if we go out there and ask him, who they think, believe and are convinced that women have the same ability to access jobs and we charge the same. Then there are those who come out of the cave from time to time, as happened last week, who say that women earn less because we are weaker, less intelligent and smaller. And we, from the Socialist Group -- and I suppose many of the men and women we are here today -- because the truth is, we thought Cro-Magnon's men were the only ones left behind, and we realized that they were reincarnated in an extremely right-wing Euro MP that these days was coming out of the cave and that we hoped he would come back in so as not to go out at least in a very long time. And I am convinced, Counselor, that today I will not listen to any of these words. I have enough consideration to know that, although there are occasions when we do not agree, it will not make such statements. At least I hope to match the diagnosis of the problem, in which I think it's something important and that we need to work hard and work hard. It is true that we may not agree that we believe there is a certain responsibility of the Government in the situation in which the women of Greece find themselves in the labour market. I could almost assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that all the women we are here today in this House — some of you — either suffered in the first person or they know something as usual to you, for example, that in a job interview they asked you whether you want to be a mother or not, something that doesn't usually happen to men. I'm sure you know someone who's also been harassed by sex or even sexual harassment. And then there are these little micromachisms that -- let me humbly say it -- I think all of us suffer on occasion, those sexual jokes that we had to endure at our jobs, ignore and devalue women at meetings, that thin but constant rain that ends up reaching our bones and that ends up producing a terrible low of self-esteem in many women. In addition to the general attitude that we receive women in jobs, there are other data on wage access to jobs. I won't have time to crack all the data. I want to look at and focus on some who especially call me attention, like those of bias, who tell us that 3 out of every 4 people who work in Galicia right now in part time are women, or the unemployment rate: in the fourth quarter of 2016 17% of the active people were unemployed, compared to 15.6% of the active men. The loss of purchasing power was given to all workers and workers throughout the crisis, but it focused in a special way on women; in particular, women 5.6%, and men 2.7%, between 2008 and 2013. The pay gap has already been reported here that is more than 20%. We would have to work 79 more days a year to charge the same as men. But there's a job that we often don't count, and that we mostly do women. These are household chores and family care, with which, ladies and gentlemen, those 79 days would have to add to them another 90 days more a year, which add up to a total of 169 days a year, which is what we work for women more than men, without being paid. This is, in a working life, about nine more years. From the Socialist Group, Counselor, this data seems scandalous to us. Tell us the European Union itself that we would need to wait another seventy years to get paid. We believe and are convinced that with the efforts of society as a whole, the Government, of course, of the institutions and this Parliament, we must put measures on the table to shorten those deadlines as far as possible. As for access to positions of responsibility, it's no novelty that glass ceiling, impossible to break for women. Funny when it turns out we're 59% in positions that require high qualification, such as technicians, scientists, intellectuals. We are in the most precarious and worst paid sectors, another fact that especially attracts our attention. Women focus on the service sector, just the sector where there's a higher wage gap, with 32%. Then they come to agriculture, livestock, forestry and fishing. As a result, this disparity of wages also has an impact on wages which are paid for unemployment, unemployment benefits, and of course, on the basis of the time given, on pensions. We've been unequal for centuries, Counselor, and I'm not going to blame you or your government for the inequality at work that we're suffering from in this country. But it is true that there is a political responsibility in addition to social, because the socialists are convinced that equality must be brought to the centre of political life. The debate on equality must come here, in the Galician Parliament, to the centre of political life. We do not feel the same way, therefore, that Mr Feijóo in this respect. And as we see politics as a driving force for people's lives, for better society, you've been ruling in this autonomous community for many years, and you do have a certain responsibility for that data going to worse, or, at least, if we're not going to agree, that they don't improve enough to have some conditions of this century and you have them from the 19th century or, if you can tell me, something earlier. There were measures that took its government of cuts in essential services, such as health care, education or dependence, the imposition of unfair and reversive labour reform. And the budgets, Counsellor, for the year 2017 provide EUR 1.2 million to support the reconciliation of working and personal life and other protection services; EUR 7 million for actions for equality, protection and promotion of women. These programs nine years ago had 5.7 and 16.2 million respectively. Of course, Mr. Counsellor, this decline of budgets has certainly not helped us walk the path of equality. And perhaps what seems to us most serious at all, since the arrival of Mr Feijóo's government board, is that they have made an uncontrolled flight — from our point of view — of all the initiatives on equality in employment that the two-party government has put in place, including a law from which we feel particularly proud and proud, which is the Law of Equal Employment — a law which is now recast in the Law of Equality at the general level — which envisaged technical support for the implementation of equality plans and the implementation of an employment plan with the participation of more than 15,000 women and 300 companies, with different programmes of great importance in order to be able to lay the foundations of equality at work in this country. Today, Counsellor — this issue is very broad — let us ask you about the revision of collective agreements by the Autonomic Administration and the challenges that have taken place, what technical and economic support measures is providing the Government of Greece for the voluntary implementation of employment plans by companies and, finally, all measures to promote equality in the workplace. I started my speech by saying that we were taking advantage of a day as marked today to bring this initiative, to honor all the working women in this country, and I end the first part by saying that it won't be the last, because we're going to insist on this every day of the year, as if every day of the year, Your Honor, it was March 8th. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs White, first of all, logically, a recognition to all women, and all the struggle society is facing to ensure equality between men and women. Because that equality — you said it — is a responsibility of all, and, as it cannot be otherwise, logically is a priority of this government. Because we understand that it is an essential value for economic cohesion but also primarily for social cohesion, as it is also found in the Constitution and the Statute itself. I want to move you today is that this struggle for the recognition of equality, and therefore for all the actions that allow you to continue working together in equality, is, I say, a shared goal. Therefore, I greatly appreciate this interpellation one day as well as today. Besides, you said, but I repeat, here there is no kind of negationism, here is no kind of cave, here is realism, realism about the situation that we have in Spain and that we have in Galicia in terms of equality. In fact, you have established a diagnosis that is shared — I am transferring it — in the sense that this has to have a response in terms of society; therefore, action must be taken with concrete measures, measures of positive discrimination. And logically I am transferring to you the position of the Government, and it is that equality is actually part of the political debate and equality must and will continue to be part of the political debate, not only by actions and initiatives that move the opposition, but also by the initiatives and proposals that this Parliamentary Group of the People's Party will move. In any case, in that diagnosis I agree with you, because that's how I understood it. I understand we're better. It is true that we have to improve a lot, and in that sense I believe that everything that reaches employment is a fundamental element. Because employment is the key tool, or one of the key tools to combat inequality. In fact, by recalling some specific data and that somehow I think I should complete your diagnosis from a statistical point of view, I can tell you that in Galicia we recovered almost all of the female employment lost during the crisis. In particular, in January 2017 we have 459,691 members in Social Security. I can tell you that the gender gap is at least historical here in Galicia: 48% of memberships versus 42% of memberships in the Bipartite, and besides today's pay gap -- and this, Your Honor, I think it's important -- is the second lowest in the last decade. Galicia has a 2.4-point pay gap below Spain, and Galicia is the fifth autonomous community with the lowest pay gap. Therefore, I honestly believe, Mrs. Blanco, that we move forward, that Galicia has advanced. Today we are a great majority of those who are working for a society where women and men can carry out all our potential in equality and I think it's necessary, to buy it, to recognize it. And from there, logically, we have to keep working to promote different initiatives. And as you specifically ask me about employment initiatives, I'm going to tell you what measures this government has implemented in the field of employment equality. It's a job for everyone, it's a job not of this legislation or of the past, we've been working together for twenty-five years in Galicia to improve this situation. And I think it is worth making a small reminder, especially because these measures will have to be accompanied by further measures. In Galicia we are maintaining positive discrimination in active employment policies for women, which is part of the definition of active employment policies. And since 2009, Your Honor, 55% of the aid to encourage recruitment has been to use women. A significant data, and you will have to continue to deepen and increase that bet. But I've already said that 55% of the aid to encourage recruitment was to use women. And I'll tell you more. We spend more than EUR 51 million each year to facilitate the training and integration of women in Galicia; I say that in terms of active employment policy it is essential. In fact, every year there are more than 48,000 beneficiaries in all active employment policies. I'm talking about incentives for recruitment, self-employment, training and employment workers and employment improvement programmes. In short, these are measures that mark a clear trend towards positive discrimination in the employment of women. We're going to have to move forward this year 2017, and I can move that this year 2017 we're going to increase the intensity of aid for women, from 15% to 25% of aid intensity in all aid orders that the Economic, Employment and Industry Council has. And yet we will continue to work — I say — so that this positive discrimination in the area of active employment policies has a direct benefit for such inclusion and for greater equality in the labour market. We will also continue to enhance equality in companies in Galicia. You were telling me about a failure on the part of the Government of the Law of Equality. I have to tell you that this government is boosting equality in businesses, that this government is applying and is helping to put in place plans and measures that favor equal work and reconciliation with family and personal life. In fact, in 2016 these aids have increased by 28% and in 2017 they will increase by 27%. Also in 2017 we will improve the reconciliation by maternity or paternity of autonomous people in Galicia; a new measure that will benefit the self-employed and will allow them to increase in sixteen weeks the bonus of 100 percent of the share of social security of the hired person. And, of course, we will continue to work with the Labour Inspectorate, because not only must we be proactive but we must also be vigilant and ensure effective equality between men and women. And that's what the Labour Inspectorate is doing. Logically, we will also continue to work with the Equal Commission of the Labour Relations Council to improve the effective legality. And in fact — which was one of the questions you moved me — I can tell you that 70% of the collective agreements reviewed in the last two years include improvements for women, especially in the issue of conciliation. Finally, a whole series of measures that are allowing work on equality from a labour point of view. And we will continue, because, Your Honor, we do not comply. Obviously, there is no conformism here; on the contrary, what there is is a true inconformity because we know and are aware that we have much to go through. That means putting in place a new equal employment plan, which we will present in the coming weeks to all social partners so that we can identify new measures that support the achievement of women's space within the business and work world. Finally, the honourable Member — and I conclude — has no doubt that Galicia is making progress in equality between men and women in employment. And I don't think it's a question of the commitment of this government's work to support this objective either. And so we will continue to work together in a policy that has cross-cutting measures but also has specific measures to improve employability of women and equality in businesses. A policy, Your Honor, which we try to carry out through an open dialogue with all the social partners, with all the administrations. And we want this open dialogue to be transferred to this House as well and, therefore, that there is an open dialogue with all political groups and that in that new Employment Act we can continue to work and identify improved actions to effectively ensure equality is effective. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u252	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Blanco's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u253	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, I am also hoping that this House's majority group will take some initiative. I think Women's Day was a great occasion, a great opportunity to know what the People's Group's position in the field of equality is, beyond setting a lacy, which remains very nice. [[Applause]] When it comes to equality, when it comes to governance, what we need to do is to legislate for and for women and bring initiatives into this House. Little holes are served if they're not accompanied by politics. I don't match your data. If it's not the salary divider. It's true, we have the lowest, but there's a reason that's not positive, Counselor, and I'm going to try to explain it. We have the third lowest average salary in all of Spain. The average men's salary in 2009 was €20,271; in 2015 it was €19,899; that of women in 2009, €15,594; and 2015 it was €15,000. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, explained graphically, and as you explain to the children at school, if the pay gap was this, if the wages of women continue to decline and that of men does not increase, it means that the pay gap is diverted, Counsellor, and that's nothing positive. That means that not only are women worse in this country but the workers — men — who had a much better salary than they have now, are worse also, and all because of their work policy. It's no reason for satisfaction, therefore, Counselor. As for your collaboration with the Labour Inspectorate, I think it's very interesting, it's very important. And I always want to put forward the work of the magnificent techniques and techniques in this organism, which I would also like you to let them work because I know that they can do a magnificent job and not always allowed. I have the data on the activity carried out by the Inspection between January and December 2015, the data on the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Well, in terms of employment and employment relations, exactly in the review of the effective equality of women and men, the work of the Labour Inspectorate in Galicia is 34. In other words, the inspectors and labour inspectors found 34 irregularities between discrimination in access to employment, discrimination in relation to work — incomes, promotion —, sexual harassment and on grounds of gender, equality plans and other obligations, rights on reconciling family and labour life, discrimination in collective bargaining. It's 34, and I think that the 34, if we get among the 75s we're here, we get them out of cases we know. Shame on you, Counselor! If there's a collaboration, step it up and, please, start to regulate and start to launch the inspections. Because not only increases in aid orders are necessary — we agree with you in that — there must also be control by the Administration. Equality at work is a right that is recognized in all norms, in all legislations, and it is one of the functions of the Galician Union to ensure that it is fulfilled. And watching along with the Labour Inspectorate too, as I was telling you right now. He was also talking about profit for hours worked, and it's a fact I want to give because we're worse than the rest of Spain. And in that data it doesn't influence temporality or bias in recruitment, we're worse; behind it, Cantabria alone. Counselor, I'm glad you here today announce a job plan. It's true that the Aurora Plan that the two-party government had to do was get it out of the Council's drawer and put it on the move. We didn't need to lose all these years without any plans on the table for now to suddenly get it out and get it done, which I don't think is immediate. We wait and we'll review that plan that we expect you to bring this House in so we can debate. We, from the Socialist Group, consider it very important that we correct this situation of inequality that women suffer. Not only to grant them the rights that come under the laws, the regulations that are in force, but also -- as you said, and we agreed -- as a factor of economic dynamization and efficiency; of course yes, Counsellor. But above all, ladies and gentlemen, for a matter that transcends all this and which is much more important: we owe it to all our forebears, we owe it to all the women who fought for equality in this country and we owe it to all those who had to suffer in silence labor harassment and sexual harassment without any kind of backing. It's, ladies and gentlemen, not just an economic issue, it's a social issue, it's a question of justice. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Counsellor's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Blanco, I reiterate my thanks for the interpellation and, above all, for the diagnosis that you are proposing, and so I understand that it is logically a helping hand that I return to you to continue working on the improvement of equality and therefore in all measures that allow us to move forward in one of the most important areas that we have as society. It is true that in this respect you can make that diagnosis with surely different data. What we are moving about is that we are actually in a situation where we clearly improve the situation that women have in the labour market and that logically we have a capacity for improvement in which we have to work. But I wanted to point out here this afternoon that 7 out of 10 women have indefinite work in Galicia, and that 7 out of 10 women have a full-time contract. That's a reality we have in Galicia that has no other autonomous communities. If you want, by putting a comparison with an autonomous community ruled by your party, in Andalusia the rate of temporality is 8 points below Galicia. And if you want to talk about a pay gap, in Andalusia, I can tell you that that pay gap is 5 points higher than what we have here in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] So it's a situation that logically has a lot of potential for improvement, but I think -- and I'd say in my first intervention -- that you have to have that recognition of the work that is being developed by all the agents. And especially to be very respectful also with all those companies, workers and social agents who are working for effective equality. And I think that sincere recognition doesn't transfer him to this House like a wretch, I move him like a stimulus. And we must all have a stimulus to continue to maintain that positive discrimination for women in active employment policies. We must continue to strengthen equality plans in companies, and I can see that we will include aspects related to training and counselling for women in a concrete way. And we have to ensure, as we do not, that we comply with the labour rights of the Greeks, with the Labour Inspectorate, which actually performs a very important task. There are 2,800 actions that have been carried out by the Labour Inspectorate since 2013 and, logically, this year, we continue to continue, and, as you know, the work inspectorate's actions in the field of equality are stable and are planned on their own and also to meet all the demands that come as labour authority. So, we're going to continue to intensify them, not only because they're on the annual work inspection plan, but because any complaints that can reach the work authority, we're going to transfer them to the Labour Inspectorate, and I'm sure that with that professionalism, that I share that vision with you, the Labour Inspectorate will continue to identify any anomaly and any non-compliance with the regulations. But in addition to continuing to work on that positive discrimination, I can move him, making a small incision and answering his question, that no collective agreement has been challenged in the last eight years, none. And that, Your Honor, answers that there is a pre-review work that seeks, precisely, to ensure the fulfilment of equality. But secondly, Your Honor, this recognition of what was moving you must also be a stimulus to devote more resources to employment and training. This year 2017 will increase the budget by 17% and continue to work on quality and equal employment. Thirdly, Your Honor, it must also be a stimulus to implement that Galician Employment Act, that new Employment Plan on an equal footing and that plan announced by the President, the Greek Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan. I believe that they are an issue in which we have a job to do in this House, and I hope to achieve the consensus and support of all parliamentary groups to precisely say that in Galicia we are talking more and more on an equal footing. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u256	Thank you, Counselor. Let's get back to the seventh item on the agenda, you ask the Government. Question by Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the approval of the public job offer of 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u257	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u258	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We were told by Concepción Arenal, at the end of the 19th century, that society cannot, in justice, prohibit the honest exercise of its faculties in half the human race. Sometimes this is all over the world. Counsellor, let us bring this question urgently to this plenary before which we assume are false alarms and, above all, before the ceremony of confusion to which you are subjected, not to this House, but to an important set of public employees and, above all, to opponents, to more than 15,000 people who are awaiting to put their expectations into effect and to know, ultimately, what are the plans that the Council of Galicia has to form and approve, in a final manner, the 2017 public employment offer. Yesterday he was not very interested, talking about labour issues — it is still public employment — when compared to European data, although we see that many times on these issues they like to compare with other autonomous communities when they present favourable a priori indices for Galicia. But I do like to compare ourselves with European countries in which we have to look, if we also advocate for the greater integration that is currently in doubt. The European Commission, already in 2012, established or analysed Spain as one of the ten countries of the European Union with less public employment expenditure on GDP. The People's Party, when it arrived in 2012 in the Government, brought the goal of reducing it to at least 38% during the following exercises, and that's actually being done. In Galicia, as we had the opportunity to analyze in the previous plenary on the basis of the motion from that question on public employment, the developments in this employment dependent on the autonomic public sector respond precisely to this trend of absolute reduction in the public employment service, as shown by the published data itself, as Mr Counsellor told you, by the Business Council itself. The temporality levels, as we also pointed out, have been shot, increasing by 50% between 2011 and 2015, from 10,000 to 15,000 contracts. But it turns out that we have already approved Law 1/2017 in Galicia, published therefore the general budgets of the Autonomous Community. And I don't hide it, because I can't do it, because they know perfectly well that Article 38 of the General Budget Law sets out the mechanics of budgetary extensions. I can't hide it either, because they know it perfectly well, as articles 19 and 20 of the 2016 State Budget Act, extended for 2017, follow in full force. Finally, we don't know who can respond to the false alarm presented or disseminated by the president, Mr Feijóo, in the last few days, by making this kind of trick or, sometimes, by misunderstanding your paternalism, that I understand that this paternalism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u259	Finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u260	...can be a new version of traditional caciquism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u261	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u262	Yes, sir, I'm done right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u263	No, no, no, no. Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u264	That is why, in the face of this confusion ceremony, what the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but not the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but, above all, the opponents currently in Galicia need absolute clarification as to when the Government of Greece is going to approve, without further delay, the employment plan for 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u265	Thank you. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u266	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, ask yourself for the 2017 public job offer. Three questions. The first one. The Board is working on normal and usual deadlines, like every year, to be able to approve in time and form the public job offer. Like every year, it's recognized that the most urgent thing is the education squares, and that's why we've already come to know the specialities and deadlines we want to convene. We are also working normally on the scope of Sergas, as well as the General Administration, and we want to be prepared to convene the OPE of education with the objective that we can execute it, if the situation in the state is unblocked within the usual deadlines. Secondly, the Union, precisely because we are responsible, will only approve the OPE once we see that the necessary legal security conditions are provided. And we make this decision because we think the opponent's effort deserves respect. I would like to remind you that the opposition affects the work of the opponents, of the interiors, of the public services we provide to citizens; therefore, they have to be summoned and developed in the highest conditions of legal security. As you also know, there are precedents for communities that have called for oppositions that violate the law, and it had to be the Constitutional Court that had amended their plan. We'll do what we've done since 2009. We will respect and exhaust in practice the full rate of reinstatement that is set in the budgets, but as long as the situation is not clarified — even if someone does not like it — we will ensure the legal security of the Greek opponents, and in this I believe we agree with the unions. Thirdly, I would ask you, as a representative of the Socialist Party, a certain level of coherence and one criterion, because, while your spokesman in Galicia asks us to be extremely speedy in convening oppositions, also leaders of the Socialist Party in Castile-La Mancha or in Extremes, they say that these conditions of legal security are not given. What are we left with? In Galicia they ask for speed in what they care about, legal insecurity, which can affect our opponents, and where they can summon oppositions don't? Because as long as a week ago his spokesman gave us three weeks' deadline, today, which we know, there is no community governed by the PSOE that has confirmed this call. I think the German opponents have the same conditions and ask for the same security conditions as the rest of Spain, because they're no less. Your Honor, in Galicia we want to summon the oppositions and we want to do it with certainty, because I believe that the Greeks, the Greek opponents, deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u267	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u268	Yes, Counsellor, we refer to Galicia, we circumscribed ourselves to the area in which we are, precisely, because, in addition, it turns out that it is from the autonomous communities which have indeed approved the Budget Law for this year. You always show that leadership, that ability to have already approved this Budget Law. We have the Budget Act, they know perfectly well that we can launch the 2017 supply with the legal mechanisms currently in force, extended in 2016, without prejudice to a new replacement rate or, better said, a replacement rate release would allow the Autonomous Community of Galicia to grow in public employment. Counsellor, sometimes we have the doubt that we really have the management skills in public employment that are all the ones that are being demonstrated, because we have an important problem, and I don't know if from this point of view there are smoke curtains, because we know how the Business Council is being unable to manage all the job offers approved between 2012 and 2016 on general administration bodies. They only approved 23% of the calls. It's not our data, it's data from the union organizations themselves, which you say you're talking about. We are observing how a whole series of rulings on selection courts, such as that lack of collective bargaining, such as the unilateral amendment of the Public Employment Act, in the Law of measures, such as this inability to manage general administration offers, not so — and we must recognise it — in the matter of, for example, education, or how the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia has come to completely change the personal policy, for example, in the Council of the Crown, are those that show this inability to speak seriously about public employment and public services in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u269	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u270	I'm very pleased to have you put certain questions into your reply. I'll try to answer them, especially when I feel like a management disability. And for that, allow me to get data from the Ministry of Business, the latest data available and at a comparative level in all autonomous communities. It turns out that about this management disability that you refer to Galicia is the autonomous community that presents the lowest rate of interinence. What are we left with? It turns out we have 14% of the total, when the community closest to us has 17.1%, when the average of Spain is 21%, and when there are autonomous communities, once again, managed by the Socialist Party, as they can be Balearics, which are close to 29%, or Asturias, which we have here, 26%. What are we left with? [[Applause]] So that message to a certain catastrophic point, very specific to some interventions, even in the claim you are making, which we have already discussed here the other day, if two issues manifest this autonomous community since the year 2009 is the practice of stability, like no other autonomous community, in terms of troops, in every and every sector of the administration, and, on the other hand, in terms of stability in employment. When you're starting to talk about what the target should be, within two or three years, at 8% rates, you tell me who's closest: Galicia, which has 14%, or the Asturias Community, which has almost 26%, or Balearics, which has almost 29%? Of course Galicia. Indeed, there are many oppositions that are ongoing. We give them enough time, with maximum safety, for them to be executed. We've got a lot to do better, actually. Imagine what the rest will be like. So, as I told you, the most important thing that I was bringing us right now is that we do want to convene oppositions, we've always done it, we've exhausted all the repositioning rates, some with the socialist government, which was 10%. Do you remember what it was in 2010, what it was in 2009? Remember, please. Therefore, in the German Government we will always look out for the interests of the German opponents. Why? Because we have all the respect for the world, they deserve our dedication. In this interest of the Union, therefore, to approve this year, will be deep contacts, as they have always been. We're in time, in a normal time, without being fired, but always with the utmost safety criterion. I repeat for the third time: they deserve our respect and our dedication. I hope, too, because they talk so much about the subject, with the support of the Socialist Group, I hope to have that support, not that finger in the eye. So I continue to assure you: we will continue to work to summon the oppositions when the uncertainties that may exist at the moment are cleared.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u272	Like the president said a few days ago, we're moderately...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u273	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u274	...optimists in the evolution of the situation, but very few classes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u275	Thank you. From Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the deadline set by the Government of Galicia for the approval of the new plan for the management of the wolf
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u276	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. In 1929 an icon of feminism, Virginia Woolf, said, "There's no rush, there's no need to shine; there's no need to be anyone save herself." It was Virginia Woolf -- not wolf -- and today they're talking about the wolf. In 2011 the Directorate General for Conservation of Nature, the Environmental Council at that time, had initiated and contracted the procedure for the development of the Wolf Management Plan. Counselor, 2011, we're in 2017 and we're still waiting. In Galicia there are wolves, in Galicia there are cattle and in Galicia there are damage to the cattle by the wolves. Junta has a duty to protect the wolf and compensate for the damage. That's why this parliamentary group has been asking for years about the indispensable wolf management plan. There's no answer; we're going to do it, we're going to do it. The last reply of the Government, of April 2016, gave data for the year 2014. In Galicia there are more than ninety breeding orders of wolves — you said, in April 2016. Since then, nothing after the wolf's management plan, no budget for its development. In the municipality of Cotobade-Cerdedo, in Viascón and in Carballedo in particular, counsellor, the wolf is causing damage to the cabin caprine and void, especially during last year and this year, much more than in previous years. According to the Self-Government itself—i.e. you—you don't know whether there are new groups in Cotobade-Cerdedo, moving from other territories, attracted because there is a large cattle hut, or if they are more voracious or more experienced than in previous years. Unknown to him. And the situation is so extreme that even livestock have an official permit to make night wait for the wolf, although it's a really unusual and really extraordinary procedure. And in the meantime, what do you guys do? Well, you do, as my colleague Abel Losada says, pure advertising and propaganda, makeup and press headlines. Curiously, as soon as they got out, you've been out of this news in the press, you've already announced that they're going to review the aid bar, after they've been hunting seventeen copies in the last decade. Also by the visa this year, they're going to modify the Management Plan. Oh, my God! — we would—because the reality is that a year ago you paid the pending grants for 2014 and 2015 and now they're paying for what's left of 2016 and they're starting with 2017. Apparently, you also said in these press headlines that there are 400,000 euros for prevention, but the livestock — if not 4G or 3G — don't get there, they don't know and they've only run out of 260,000. And then our questions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u277	Thank you. Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u278	Just, president, I'm done in a second. When will this wolf management plan be approved? This year, by the way, according to the press headlines, but I'd like you to tell us. Why are compensations reduced every year? How long are you on average in the processing of compensation for the damage to the wolf? Do you particularly recognize the incidence in Cotobade-Cerdedo and are going to study any special protective measures for this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u280	Thank you very much, President. I'll try to answer the only question that you ask, which you can make, because this isn't a commission, it's the whole thing, in this intervention where I'm on my turn. Home!, we're talking about the wolf and, indeed, it's a species that, as you know, is emblematic in our community and that has special attention from the Self-Government. In addition, it is a species, as you also say, declared of Community interest in 1992 and that it also, as a cinematic species that it is, not only has to have protective measures, but also has to have a management plan. Today's studies by Council technicians confirm that the presence of the wolf is widespread throughout our territory. Specifically, in line with the information we gave you in 2016, there are ninety breeding orders, of which fourteen are cross-border, and which are distributed virtually throughout our territory, covering from 72% of the territory to almost 94% of the territory. These same studies by technicians, not politicians, conclude that the populations of the wolf, in general terms, are kept in our community in the same terms; that is, in the last fifteen years, the population of wolves is virtually identical. In particular, by giving him more information last year, they registered in Galicia, in our community, 820 notices, with 1,573 echoes affected. This government, Mrs Vilán, is deeply committed to the management of the wolf, and this is demonstrated by the measures we have taken in recent years and we will take in the coming months. It was as early as 2004 when aid was paid and the damage caused by this species was compensated for on the gainful holdings — the 2004 speech. In this framework and since 2009 we have spent about EUR 1.2 million to blow up all — absolutely all — the aid that has been requested and caused by the wolf, which is 3,500 in particular. It was in 2008 — and not in 2011, in 2008 — when a Wolf Management Plan is adopted, that today, Mrs Vilán — I think there is a mistake — is what is being updated. In other words, in 2008, this wolf management plan, which begins in 2009, has fifty-five measures, which have different objectives. The first, of course, is to ensure the viability of the species; and the second, to make the species co-existence compatible with the rural environment, which also divides it into different areas, areas that are prepared to have preventive measures and areas that are prepared to have timely population controls. Finally, Mrs. Vilan, I think you have a mistake. There's no announcement, there's not even enough hemerotheque to remind you that the Galician Union had announced in 2011 a new wolf management plan, because there's already one that's now in operation. What I'd like to say is to guarantee...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u281	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u282	...that all the aids caused by the wolf are being granted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u283	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u284	Thank you, President. You don't care if I ask you a thousand questions, counselor, because you answer what you want and nothing I'm asking you. I asked you when there's going to be a new wolf management plan, and I didn't tell you that in 2011 there was a new wolf management plan; you have to read the questions a little bit better. What I said was that in that year it was beginning and hiring a new one, if it started processing a new wolf management plan. And if you're in the hemerothecs, that you haven't seen them the truth is that it's not an answer you can give me here. Counselor, I'm going to set an example for you, because you say you're very committed and pay the aid, that you've paid all the aid for the compensation of the wolf's plan. Good. There's a glove up here and I'm going to give you the example of your situation. It's called Roberto, he's from Cotobade-Cerdedo, he has a gainful holding, and from October to February he lost more than half of his cattle for the wolf's attacks. In October he had ninety and a goat — some pregnant — he had four dogs and he had a calf. He's got thirty-eight goats right now, two dogs and he's lost his calf. And buying a goat costs about 60 euros, you pay about 26 euros of compensation. You have to add the veterinary expenses. You're paying a 0,01 of the 26 euros in compensation. You have to add up the shifts for administrative procedures, you have to add the price of emergency calls. And in view of this, the average compensation charge is two years. You don't identify species, you don't pay pregnant goats anymore than those who don't. So counsellor, we would like to explain to you whether that commitment, if that commitment that you are telling us that, in fact, they have with the owners for the damage to the wolf if they materialize on this data that I'm giving them, that they are not data that is inventive, that they are data that can specifically contrast with the owners of the area. How long do you take in half the compensation — a very complex thing —?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u285	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u286	Is there a special incidence in Cotobade-Cerdedo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u287	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u288	-One second nothing more. And what protection measures are they going to take?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u289	No, it's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u290	Thank you. Because for now, very effective they're not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u291	Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u292	Thank you very much. The first of all to address Roberto directly and to tell him that I deeply regret the circumstances that occupy him and ratify him and inform him and, of course, assure him that all the help you have now requested, if it is found that, indeed, they have been harmed by the wolf, they will be immediately — and I say immediately — paid by this council, as is the case with the barbarum that today is. And in the same way I'm going to Roberto, I'm going to all those who now have an application that's in processing. And I ratify again: all — and I say all — those aids requested by our owners who are certified and accredited that have been caused by the wolf, all, absolutely, will be paid. Today, indeed, we have applications, like Roberto's, payment pending that are 2016 and that are already being processed and will be paid immediately. And on the other hand, we don't need a new wolf management plan, and what we need is to update it and obviously adapt it to new circumstances, and that's what we're going to do this year. The first of all, concerning the zones and the zoning of their scope, which we believe is important to update these areas as the ultimate base and taking into account the ultimate basis of the census we have in the species. And, of course, since you were talking about money, I really want to take that reference from which you consider injustice, because you think they're not well paid. So will we, too, and that's why we'll check them out. And we're going to check them out, but not unilaterally. We want to do this as was done at the time of the year 2004, which is reaching a consensus and reaching an agreement, not only with the unions and with the representation of landowners and all agricultural organizations, but also, of course, with the Rural Council. In this we work and also do a study on the effectiveness of all those measures that we are trying to introduce today and for which we are allocating EUR 400,000 last year, precisely prevention measures. But on these prevention measures we want to know and have an analysis of the fact that they are actually being effective, so that we can soon establish harmonised action protocols. Finally, Mrs Vilan, as hard as you can, this is a particularly technical job, this is not a political issue. What we want is to answer a problem to the owners. My responsibility, my commitment is to make it immediately as appropriate as it is in the market and to make it compatible with its exploitation also with the preservation of this species in the territory. Therefore, I continue to bet — I believe it strongly — on prevention, drawing lines of help for prevention and, of course — I insist —, ensuring what I said in my first intervention: all those gloves who have damage caused by the wolf and so believe themselves will have their corresponding help, at present according to the barrier that is in force and then, when the new barrier is approved according to agricultural and trade union organizations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u293	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u294	...with the next bar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u295	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular, on the execution by Galician Junta of the intermodal station in Vigo Town Hall
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u296	Mrs. Egerique Mosquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u297	Good afternoon, gentlemen. The Members of the People's Group continue to await the apologies for Mrs Santos' slander to the members of the Galician PP. [[Applause]] Counsellor, mobility, in its broadest sense, is a determining factor of progress and also a symptom of modernity that allows us to distance inequality between territories and allows better and more comfortable access to services, as well as making cities, towns, metropolitan areas more modern and accessible. The promotion of public transport is also a subject of government, from any administration, with the aim of eliminating excess pollution on roads and in order to contribute to improving the quality of the environment. Having said this and then recognizing a great advance with the approval and implementation of the Galician Metropolitan Transport Plan, which is increasing in addition to the numbers of public transport users and is improving the quality of life of the Welsh and Welsh, the Galician Union, specifically the Councillory you are leading, has planned an ambitious intermodal station plan in the major cities of Galicia. Intermodal stations, modern infrastructures in accessible places in the city, will allow us to focus on the arrival and exit of trains and buses at a common point and will facilitate the combination of the use of public rail and road transport; facilitate the use of public transport, something more and more necessary. So it's already becoming an essential factor — I repeat — for equality between the Greeks and the Greeks regardless of where they live. Today we bring to this plenary the case of Vigo, because in that city the cancellation of the 2008 Municipal Management Plan, approved on its day by a socialist government and the BNG in the Galician Union and a socialist government in the Town Hall, put that infrastructure at risk. The diligence of the Galician Union, the diligence of this Parliament itself, of these Members, with the approval of Law 2/2016, a quick and sensible reaction not to paralyze a city, will allow it to be possible to build that station, despite the permanent paralysis of a municipality that has not yet moved a role to draw up a PXOM. We don't know if the Town Hall has done its duties in this case, if it has already done the necessary procedures to ensure that the construction of the intermodal station is finally a reality. From this group we look clearly, on the edge of the territory, the differences between the efforts of some people to improve mobility and the services of the metropolitan areas of Vigo and other places and others that have not done anything to take advantage of them, but they do have plenty of time to criticize, to find guilty of their enormous potatoes, soaked with pride. We have a great deal of concern about the survival of the Vigo intermodal station, given that the participation of the different administrations is fundamental: the Government of the Union, the Central Government, Adif, the Town Hall. That's why I put the question, Counsellor: we want to know what situation the execution of Vigo Intermodal Station is in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u298	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u299	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the Galician Union is leading to drive the intermodal stations in Galicia, to have modern stations adapted to the arrival of high speed to Galicia. We've been working for a long time so that in a single space you can exchange the different modes of transport: the bus and the railway. We've been working for a long time, a lot of people for a long time. We've got the funds. We are currently working in coordination with the Ministry of Development to integrate these bus terminals into the railway stations of our cities. He therefore assumes that our cities have a single space where the train and the bus live, where all the information on all the lines and frequencies is in that single space, and we also want to contribute to making a city. In the specific case of Vigo, as you ask, since the Galician Union we have to say that we have been working without rest for a long time. What we want is that Vigo has the first intermodal station in Galicia, and all of this despite the complications arising from the fall and the judicial annulment of the General Plan. We're talking about a municipal problem. The fall of the General Plan is a municipal urban problem and where the Galician Union has soon put the solution, has put the solution with the adoption of Law 3/2016, for the impetus of projects of general interest and public interest and urgency. So, one year ago in Galicia, the Ministry of Development and the Council of Vigo, we agreed to process this intermodal Vigo station through this law and push this terminal. And in this respect we agreed at that meeting on January 31st that the Ministry of Development and the Joint Assembly jointly process this project through that law, an agile and rapid alternative, the only alternative as a result of the General Plan, because another alternative would be to wait for the General Plan. On February 2, Adif issued the application for the initiation of the processing. That same day, reports were requested to the Directorate General for Mobility, which were issued and received in the secretariat on February 6, and on February 7, the project and all the documentation to the Vigo Council was submitted. Therefore, maximum speed by the Galician Union since Adif requested the agreement of initiation through the law. In four days we moved the project, the file, to the Vigo Town Hall. So it's clear that Vigo's intermodal is moving forward thanks to the management of the Galician Union, which is being a priority. Of course, we're working to contribute to making cities in Vigo as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u300	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u301	Thank you very much, Counselor. The Members of the People's Group continue to await the apologies for Mrs Santos' slander to the members of the Galician PP. Counsellor, let us be clear not only by what you expose here today, but also by the events we observe every day in the city of Vigo, that your commitment, your work by the Board was and is constant; an attitude diametrically opposed to that of the mayor of Vigo, who today, in addition, decides to break everything up, because he said unscrupulously that the Metropolitan Transport Plan of Galicia is outdated, a metropolitan transport plan which he signed eight months ago. He breaks with his own word the agreement he signed, he breaks with the vicars and the vicars, he breaks with the city, for Vigo is in inequality with respect to other municipalities of Galicia. We can't save with the Metropolitan Transport Plan because he won't let us. In Vigo we have a second metropolitan transport, while in other areas they don't have it. He says the transport plan isn't worth it, but he says he's going to lower the ticket to the neighborhoods of eight municipalities that support him. Bilateral meetings — excuse me for vehemence, forgiveness, counsellor, but does it seem to be independable: where is the metropolitan spirit?— He says he's only going to have meetings to talk about transport to the eight municipalities that support him — textual words from a ruler. That of listening and responding to only those who slapped him in his back already did, but now he's got the hard face to say, verbalized it formally today in a press round; that's what you know very well, the party partners, the PSOE. But time and facts are relentless and we'll see where this extreme and sectarian way of governing will take us, because if the Union is working for the metropolitan transport of Galicia, the intermodal station in Vigo and its metropolitan area, it's not the politicians; time continues; Vigo and its metropolitan area are all the people who compose it. It is not the first time that a large project of the Autonomous Administration, including the Spanish Government, finds obstacles and difficulties on the part of the local administration. Counsellor, you will have more information than we do to explain to us what the Vigo Town Hall is doing to get the intermodal station to go ahead, because I imagine you'll also have to take your procedures forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u302	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u303	Thank you, President. For there are many of the efforts that the Galician Union is making to take forward the Vigo intermodal station, a strategic project for the city, and in just one year what we have done since the Galician Union was a law, an express law, to unblock urbanistically the projects of general interest in Galicia, a project of the new bus terminal, the project of the shopping center by Adif. We started the joint processing by this Law 3/2016 and also convened, together with Adif, technical meetings also with the Vigo Council. So we're working, and let's remember that it's the only alternative that we put on the table as a result of the fall and cancellation of the General Plan. We therefore work together between the new bus terminal and the future centre Vialia. We started the administrative procedure, the only alternative to unlock the urban problem that Vigo is having today, and we act with the highest speed, maximum speed, and now it is up to the Vigo Council to carry out the corresponding procedures, which are within its competence, which is today to submit public information and issue the preliminary and binding report of the Vigo Council on this project. Therefore, the fact is that we are not surprised suddenly by the sudden calm of the Vigo Council, because it has asked for speed to Adif, Adif has been informed in writing and personally to the Vigo Council, the mayor, who needs legal guarantees, and this legal guarantee is that the Vigo Council, within the file, will pronounce itself with the favorable and preceptive report on this project, and the delay of public information will surely delay, rather than delay to hinder the adjudication of the centre Vialia by the end of March. Because we transferred, as I said in the first intervention, the 7th of February to the Vigo Council of the project so that it could be submitted to public information and until 3rd of March, therefore, almost a month later, is when the public information of the Official Gazette of the Province begins. Of course, a long time lost and now you have to spend twenty working days and then a maximum of ten for the Vigo Town Hall to issue that essential report for the project to go ahead. So we're sitting in April, and therefore the Vigo Town Hall has since not been agile to the prosecution of public information, and we hope it will be agile to the preceptive report it must make. If the Vigo Town Hall, of course, is really interested in this project, you should have the highest priority for public information and issue that report that blinds the project. As for the accesses, I hope to come to an agreement. We have proposed to the Mayor of Vigo a meeting and therefore I look forward to collaboration and sum up efforts for Vigo to have an intermodal station.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u304	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the implementation of a plan for reactivation of employment in the region of Orders for women who have worked in the manufacturing companies and are currently unemployed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u305	Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u306	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. The group God is made up of six societies and the activity of this group depends mainly on the work of Massimo Dutti (Index group), although they also make their own makeup and work for other firms in the sector even though in less volume. He employs an average of 200 workers, who, in his vast majority, are women of the Town Hall of Order or County. Before the ERE or ERE proposal, there were already worrying delays in salary payments; the staff have paid the January 2016 salary, with a year's delay, and they are missing to charge February 2016, December 2016 and the 2016 extra payment plus the January and February wages this year. That is, God's group, today, already has a wage debt above the amount that will blow away Fogasa, which is where they will certainly have to resort to charge five monthly wages and compensation equivalent to twenty days/year up to a maximum of one year. On the other hand, the latest economic data give a total debt to the group of companies that exceeds the EUR 8 million. And finally, it is the — logical — decision of Massimo Dutti to waive his services as a result of having this textile signature to assume the payment of the social security quotas of workers who did not pay the employer in front of the group God. There are actually three EREs, which add up to 107 terminations of contracts — euphemism of layoffs — and 72 reductions of a day. We're talking about 107 workers who are victims of corporate robbery today, in this case with exploitive paternalism. Sad to say, history is repeated in the people and comarca of Orders and, after the defeat of the textile Viriato, comes the defeat of the textile god. Once again, a battered template ends up being the victim of irresponsible management of those who are in front of some of these companies. Viriato's staff have been unemployed since January 11th, but today they still have no payroll accounts and they haven't paid their compensation, which for the time being — and everything will be — has not yet eliminated work reform. Worst luck, no doubt, are the workers and workers fired at the ERE of Viriato executed in August 2015, because, after completing the unemployment benefit, they remain unpaid without payment of the legal compensation contained in the agreement signed by Workers' Commissions. The question is simple: do you think or intend to put in place some employment reactivation plan in the Order district for these hundreds of women in their majority who have left the skin for years in the outfit and today are unemployed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u307	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas, thank you for your intervention. Indeed, the Greek Government shares its concern for the workers of God's group, and that's why we've already set a meeting for tomorrow Thursday with the company committee itself, a meeting that, as you will know, is preceded by another one that took place on March 1 in the Territorial Council of the Crown. So this government is following with the utmost intensity, with the utmost proximity to the workers, the situation they are going through, and therefore our utmost sensitivity to meet the needs that workers may have, especially in the processing of their own employment regulation file, in the ERE, which, as you know, the responsibility of the labour authority, in this case of the Employment, Employment and Industry Council, is to ensure that their processing is in accordance with the norm. And precisely for this reason and as a labour authority, we have already sent a letter to the company to address the deficiencies in the documentation of the file, because we understand that logically the file, regardless of its processing, must correspond to the regulations, and therefore the labour authority is from the very first moment collaborating with the workers. And, of course, at the same time we will continue to watch because all labour rights, absolutely all of them, not only of the workers of the God group, but also of the workers of the Viriato company, can be guaranteed and therefore at all times are protected not only by the law but also by the follow-up and care of the labor authority. We do it with all the companies, we do it with all the workers. It is our obligation and, of course, our main occupation is to work for this situation. It is true that the situation of the textile sector in the region of Orders is going through a maximum difficulty, because of the situation of both the group God and the situation of Viriato, and logically from the Government we will not only follow the processing of the employment regulation file, but we will also try to identify different alternatives and various initiatives that can improve employability, which can work to promote the inclusion of all these workers and in general of all the workers who are currently looking for a job in the Council of Orders, and therefore active employment policies will try to respond to this situation so difficult in the district of Orders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u309	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems good to us that they have those diagnoses, that they meet, etc., etc., but with Viriato we have a record that they put a lot of money without evaluating where they went, how they went and what conditions they were going, and the result was there. In 2004, two or three million of the Igape were mined, and they were successively fattening the yards of the entrepreneurs normally; now it's about protecting the workers, and we think it would be logical if it went not with the same speed, but with much more speed and efficiency. Because in committee we were told that there was no follow-up to these aids that were made to companies when they were in trouble, there was no follow-up due and that it didn't matter. This is what I drew, and of course you can see. It would be good if they took this seriously, because we are talking about four hundred or fifty women, which is often the only wage that comes into the family in this time of crisis — if we don't get out, despite what you say — and it would be good for them to take seriously the district of Orders, because in the district of Orders, with this plan and with these ERE and with this decline in cut and make, what we're doing is meat of emigration. And it's not logical or fair. And besides, I'm talking to you about filthy rural areas, and where these workers -- and those of us who lived thirty-five years ago there, we know that -- left the skin and back tied to a machine, and that's worth money and interest on the part of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u311	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Rivas, logically this government is responding to the situation that is going through both God's and Viriato's workers. We understand that it is a situation of enormous difficulty, such as any of the employment regulation files that need to be addressed in Galicia, at least with the same intensity, and in that sense we have not only the utmost sensitivity but the highest occupation, in order to be able to give an answer according to the possibilities of the Government. You tell me about Viriato. I want to clarify very well all that you have just said, firstly because the Government makes a timely follow-up of all the aids and all the funding it gives to the different companies. I have two things to explain to you. In the case of Viriato, when you speak of an endorsement of the Igape, that endorsement has already been cancelled and replaced by funding, not by aid, financing which has guarantees — and therefore exercised full responsibility on the part of the Government — of a million euros, which was the loan granted to Viriato. No kind of deep-disbursed aid, a million euros of funding, which is the risk at this time of the Galician Union, which, in addition, is guaranteed. Therefore, I believe that the responsibility of the Government as regards concessions in this case of funding to Viriato is maximum, and logically that funding is granted to Viriato to try to help the company that has viability, which is also the responsibility of the Government. In the end, unfortunately, that injection of a million euros was not enough and Viriato currently has a situation of enormous difficulty, with that extinct ERE. But, logically, what I'm transferring to you is that the risk that the Galician Union has is one million euros, that this million euros is funding and does not help to the full, that it has been injected into it so that Viriato could have viability, and that it is guaranteed. I believe that with the utmost responsibility we also meet the needs of companies in order to give them a chance and that they can have viability. In the case of the group God, you know that you haven't received any help in this legislation by the Government, and therefore I don't have to explain anything to you. But what I'm transferring to you, and above all I'm moving to the workers, is that we're going to follow that job regulation file with all intensity. The Galician Union will ensure compliance with the regulations. He's going to work, along with the Labour Inspectorate, so that workers can reach a satisfactory agreement, and in that sense workers must know that Galician Union at all times will be with them, and above all, in the future, also, to be able to identify alternatives to improve their employability and also to promote their future work integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u313	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and five other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the activity carried out in the discharge of transplants in Galicia in 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u314	You have a word for Mrs. Amigo Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u315	Thank you very much. The Members of the People's Group continue to await the apologies of Mrs Santos, for her slander towards the members of the People's Party of Galicia. [[Applause]] Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr Counsellor, during the previous plenary session, both during your presence and during your questions to the President, we had to listen to the opposition's statements about the Greek health system, as I will mention to you: that the right to health is not being guaranteed in Galicia, that public health dies of abandonment and even that there are orders to deny treatment as a result of cuts, and that there are people who die because of the cuts. In view of this type of assertion, it is hard to see that in Spain, which is a world-leading country of transplants performed, one does not understand how, in a country where there is an important community in which health is supposedly abandoned, health is not guaranteed and that these records can be reached. And yet, we already know, by data not from 2016, which will now comment on us, but on those we have from 2015, which, for example, the CHUAC, the Coruña hospital belonging to Sergas, was the Spanish hospital that most transplants carried out throughout the state. So it's not only that the state's result is not damaged by that supposedly terrifying public health we have in Galicia, but that the state health of Galicia is at the forefront of this success of the National Health System. This is a collective success of Galicia, not the People's Party. Obviously, it would be ridiculous to come here to say that the hundreds of people transplanted in Galicia live thanks to the Government of the People's Party. But as ridiculous as this is to say, as others do every time a death occurs in the public health system, that death is a direct consequence of the Government of the People's Party. [[Applause]] It is really very difficult to maintain that treatments are denied and services are cut off to save a few thousand euros, while at the same time having a leading transplant center, such as, for example, heart-to-heart, which means an average investment of 100,000 euros per patient. So, since the Galician People's Party, we want, with regard to our public health, that some groups so despise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u316	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u317	... knowing what the position is and if you can already tell us which position Galicia's public health occupies within Spain's health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u318	Thank you. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u319	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Friend, it is clear that we have a very good health, a good health in Galicia and Spain, and of course it is clear that transplants are a clear indication of what Spanish health within the Western world means, and logically, as I said before, also at Galicia level. To talk about cuts in the field of health, I think it's not right, and I think we should defend among all the Greek public system, because it's the most important service, that the whole population knows and values properly. That's why I think Galicia is soon at the vanguard where transplantation is all over the world, and of course Spain is not in the first places. He performed the Galego Health Service in the centres accredited in 2016 a total of 299 organ transplants, being the third year of greater activity since the start of our Community. Of the total transplants, 135 were kidney, with an important weight of live donor kidney transplantation, which made a total of 28.7% of the total kidney transplant in Galicia; it's a very, very important advance. In addition to kidney transplantation, 91 livers, 5 pancreas, 29 heart and 39 lung were performed. It is noteworthy that during 2016 the University Hospital Complex of Coruña carried out a total of 235 organ transplants; 29 of these transplants were of heart, which places the center as the Spanish hospital with more operations of this type, equal to the Fe, of Valencia. The CHUAC, in cardiac transplantation, has been holding the state record for years to perform 46 such interventions in 12 months, and coincided with the celebration of the XXV anniversary of the first heart transplant that was practiced in the center in 1991. The truth is, within these twenty-five years of transfer, transplants are one of the main indices that indicates the evolution of the Greek Health System. We started from a much lower position than other autonomous communities, and in these twenty-five years, hospitals were born so important at the level of transplant service such as the CHUAC, the Coruña, or also the Clinic of Santiago. It's also of interest that a total of 248 live donor kidney transplants have been performed since 2001. In addition, heart rate, liver, lung and pancreas are above the national average. Since the first transplant was carried out in 1981 until December 31, 2016...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u320	Thank you, thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u321	...have been done in Galicia a total of 7.245 organ transplants.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u322	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u323	Thank you very much, Counselor. I think these data speak for themselves and they answer very often some statements about cuts and lack of means that are often heard in this Chamber when it comes to health. This data you give, Counselor, seems to some to bother listening to them; it's hard to understand why, since they're a success of our public health system, our society and our professionals. Of course, we're not going to be like a National Commissioner of Podemos, who argued that Spanish health was the leader in transplants because there were many deaths of young people in traffic accidents. The president of the National Transplant Organization had to leave to point out that this profile was less than 5% of Spanish patients and to summarize Mrs.Bescana's words with a strong "it's hard to say more inaccuracies in less time." That's the seriousness of some talking about public health. We know what is the real cause behind this data, and it's nothing but the good thing to do about the health care staff, an effective system of transplant coordinators and the generosity of the Galician society and its patients. And having this clear, we simply find that the Galician Union does not spare a euro to provide resources and resources for those professionals who save hundreds of lives a year in this country. [[Applause]] I'm finishing up talking about the really important thing. We would like to ask the counsellor to tell us exactly what is the current situation of organ prayer in our country, how the number of patients evolves, and what are the awareness activities the Council has planned to convince more people that, if they want, Sergas will be prepared for their bodies to save lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u324	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Close the health counsellor's office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u325	Mr. President. The truth is, in the data, we often talk about solid organs, but we also wanted to talk about bone marrow. Galicia was located in 2016 as a fourth autonomous community with greater growth in number of registered donors, reaching a total of 7,854. Of them, 2,272 have been registered as Medul Donors in the course of this 2016. Galicia has thus increased the number of donors by 41%. The number of body donors in Galicia was 106; 52 in the province of Coruña, 13 in Lugo, 7 in Ourense and 34 in Pontevedra. With this data, Galicia records the second best year in number of donors in an exercise, which means a rate of 39.1 donors per million inhabitants. In other words, by confirming what the honourable Member said, the average age at the moment in organ donors is 61.5. And the difference between what happened years ago, most -- or 68% -- is due to strokes, linked, as we speak, to the aging of the population. It's important because, of course, we're talking about different types of patients, of different characteristics, but they have shown that effectiveness is also very good, and so we continue to do it. ADOS, the donor agency, in this 2016, has obtained 3,000 new donor cards, with which, at the moment, we have 103,505 people who have a donor card. I mean, they're ready, they're already alive, they said they want to be organ-sick. Information and awareness of young people to encourage prayer is one of the main lines of work. So, since the coordination of Galician transplants, we have conducted a few hundred talks for schoolchildren in the academic course 2015-2016, in a total of 76 educational centers of 40 municipalities, in which a total of 4,424 students participated. In addition, in the past, the first short-term university contest was convened, which was presented with a total of 10 jobs from four colleges. In the field of school, the fifth drawing contest and slogans were also convened for students related to prayer and transplantation, in which 323 students from 16 centres from 13 municipalities participated. Even so, the Project Plan was developed, educating in values, covering 15 schools with 958 schools and 57 teachers. I don't want to end without remembering the transcendence and importance of the act of prayer, and thank all the people who do so for their generosity, as well as the professionals who make these results possible. We must remember that at the moment priority is not a priority for the autonomous community, but because of the need for assistance, with which we have the solidarity of any Spanish with the Greeks. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u326	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and eight other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, about the situation of the process of enlargement of the Hospital de Montecelo, in Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u327	Mr. Moreira Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u328	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's Wednesday, March 8, past 6:00 p.m., and the Members and Members of the People's Group are still waiting for apologies for the slander Mrs. Carmen Santos said against all members of the People's Party calling us women's killers. [[Applause]] Counselor, good afternoon. Montecelo Hospital was built in the 1970s. Since the 1970s it's been through various episodes of enlargement and improvement. But it's true that recently, last July of last year, if we reached an agreement, to an agreement signed between the Council of Health and the Council of Pontevedra to make a new hospital that, connected to the current Montecelo Hospital, will allow a large extension and a new hospital, which is already called "Gran Montecelo." Good news for Pontevedra, good news for the whole area of Pontevedra. And since then there have been certain advances, of which we have had knowledge. But we want to know what progress has been made in particular, whether there is any novelty in meeting this agreement to make this great infrastructure, so necessary for Pontevedra, so necessary for the whole region, and that it really has nothing to do with that famous extension of what had been spoken of in the time of the Bipartite, since that extension, as you have already said in your interpellation, was practically unreachable, it was not functional and was going to pose great problems in its execution since it had to live with a hospital in progress, with a hospital in operation. We therefore wish to congratulate you on that signing of the convention. And we want to know and know in detail what the latest and the already advanced features are to comply with this agreement. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u329	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u330	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, sir. The truth is, if it's an important day, on which we're giving a news that I think will mark the health of the Pontevedra area for the next thirty or forty years. But I want to start from a base, because we're always talking about the evil Pontevedra is in the aspect of what hospital equipment is. But if we have to say that the care situation is good right now, and yet we believe that we should think about the next generation, in the next thirty or forty years. It must be remembered that in surgical activity, the average waiting time is 38.2 days, under Sergas average, which is one of the lowest at the national level, which is 67 days. In Pontevedra, 38.2. There are 23,282 revenue, 19,000 interventions —52 per day — more than 450,000 consultations — more than 1,800 per day. The reference is also very important in the functioning of the rapid pathways in breast cancer care, colorectal, melanoma, lung, bladder, prostate, otorrinolaryngology, which allowed them to attend throughout 2016 — these rapid pathways — 1,668 patients suspected of suffering from these pathologies within a period of less than four days. In primary care, because we have more than 2,800,000 consultations in primary care; 192,994 emergencies, almost 193,000, in the CAP in the area. On the other hand, we renew high technology in the second half of this year 2017, and it is planned to install an additional advanced band magnetic resonance room at the Montecelo Hospital. Also at Salnés right now we are finishing enlargement, which will be completed in June. We mean that the area of Pontevedra is being treated well, we're trying to improve not only the Great Montecelo, but also the health centers, the primary and the Salneous Hospital. I'm telling you that in the Great Montecelo for me the most important thing is that we all accept a solution with a great deal of agreement, in which you were precisely one of the people who also contributed to it. We believe it is a great project, because it is the greatest professional, social and political consensus. We will also take advantage of the current infrastructure of the Montecelo Hospital, which has been reformed on several occasions. And, as the work of the new centre is designed, it will not interfere with the care activity. It's very important in a work that we can continue to work while doing the works. There's going to be a single emergency door, one of the big problems we have right now when we have the provincial hospital and also upstairs. And also the professionals will be concentrated in a single building. And there will be fewer expropriations and affected houses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u331	Thank you, Counselor. There's another shift after. Thank you. [[Applause]] Mr. Moreira's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u332	Thank you very much, Counselor. Well, we're happy about how health works in Pontevedra. I wanted to move him a reflection that made me the other day an acquaintance who had a family member in Montecelo Hospital. I asked him how he could find his relative, and what he sent me and he said was, "Jacobo, if you have a chance to talk to the counselor, tell him that we have to be very proud of the health we have." That's the reflection of all the users who know, unfortunately, Pontevedra hospital facilities. [[Applause]] Of course, these criticisms that are malicious and malicious, against health care, I think they come down when a person has to visit a hospital and see not only the means that there is, which can undoubtedly be improved, but above all, the human capital and the good treatment of health personnel. [[Murmurs.]] So I'm fulfilling that commitment, Counselor, and I'm passing on to you that compliment of a citizen, as to other citizens more who give us their daily satisfaction for the good that health works. So what we hope is that we will continue to improve, that we will continue to move forward with the hospital complex of Pontevedra, with the Great Montecelo, and that we will continue to have a first-rate health, that we will continue to improve among all something that is heritage of all and beneficial to all the neighbors of Pontevedra and Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u333	Thank you, Mr. Moreira Mr. Counsellor's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u334	I totally agree with you. [[Laughter]] Obviously, we have a great health. [[Applause]] Well, I get the applause from the opposition, and that's good too. But I think the opposition is wrong if it doesn't value something that's everyone's. [[Laughter]] Because we don't want to make a flag of this, it's a public service to everyone. [[Applause]] And when one travels, one realizes that Welsh health is above the Spanish average. And let's not talk about European level, where accessibility is limited. We have a great health service, which we can improve, and for that we are all, I think so. But I think the opposition should support all possible improvements. It's clear today. We're talking about a great improvement in the Pontevedra area. But we don't say it, everyone says it. We say it first: consensus is total. In the Pontevedra Town Hall, where there is great variability — and we have a good sample of what the groups are today in Galicia and especially at Spanish level — all agree with what has been decided. It's a good sign, why don't we just applaud that? I think we have to applaud him. Because, in addition, what is the Grand Montecelo will obviously improve the health service, but it will also improve accessibility. We have this agreement, with the agreement signed with the Pontevedra Town Hall, where there are new avenues, there is a new urbanization, there will be more parking areas. And then we're defining it with professionals, with associations of neighbors and private neighbors — who can for the first time, in a plan of spaces and in a functional plan, intervene and give their proposals, which will be incorporated through a website and also present with polls that will be available to say what they believe. In fact, in Pontevedra, Montecelo Hospital is the first in Spain to have what is a service for osteomystic patients. And we have a lot of possibilities for improvement because we have collectives in that very active area who want to improve conditions, and so they're going to be incorporated, as I say. There's no functional plan or space in Spain that's counting on them. And also, then and without losing a minute, we're going to make that sectoral plan, where the expropriation will go, but where the environmental impact plan and the project will go, trying to shorten as much time as possible so we can count on it as soon as possible. That is why I think we should all be congratulated — not the People's Party, I think Parliament — that the area of Pontevedra is finally defined. And guilty there may be many, but the important thing for me is that right now we have a project underway, with a favorable position of all. And of course we're going to continue working to shorten those days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u335	Thank you, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. de En Marea, on the guarantee of compliance with all legal requirements in the contest of the Galician Public Health Urgency Foundation-061 for the assessment of the emergency health transport service
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u336	You have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u337	Thank you, President. Good guard again, Counselor. It was recently made public, when the secret was raised, that Santiago de Compostela's Instruction Judge No. 2 is conducting an investigation into the adjudication of the contest of 061 in 2014. There are high signs of the existence of prevarication, trafficking in influence and privileged information in a competition where an amount of 121 million euros, six of the lots, to a company, Ambiberica, based in Valladolid, a company chaired by a former mayor and former MP of the People's Party, Carlos Magdaleno; this company is doing with the majority of the health transport of the autonomous communities, reducing the costs at the cost of precariousness, something that has been denounced on multiple occasions; a company that bought Ambulances of the Atlantic just a few months before the competition was evaluated, something extremely suspicious and that, according to the research, could have previously known privileged information. According to the law enforcement report, law enforcement officers might have received information about the characteristics of ambulances, adapting the fleet of vehicles in record time. They already had the market and registered vehicles, and even labeled, before the concession was settled. If it were to be confirmed — which is quite likely, although we do not know because of the high signs — it would be a case of grave corruption, with the benefit of a People's Party entrepreneur; an insult, when the working conditions of the 061 have been denounced, when, in addition to recently in the Health Committee, the People's Party voted against the implementation of more resources, more medical ambulances and ambulances and, in addition, an insult when you are in a situation where you intend to transfer the base of the 0661 to the Road, the tens of kilometres of the place of residence of the people who have to work there, doing so without negotiation, forcing the workers to pay their pockets, both of 061 and of 112. That, by the way, they have succeeded in delaying this transfer — even if in the case of 112 it is, we fear, for a short time, with their protests; I move to a megalomanian building, with a computer system that is not prepared and with a way of proceeding that endangers the health of Galicians and Greeks and, obviously, our security. We believe that, finally, they pay the usual ones, the workers, the vulnerable people, and they earn the usual ones, the entrepreneurs, the big businessmen. In this case, if it is finally confirmed by judgment, they will win, in addition, with the People's Party's money. Mr. Almuña — and I am finished now — we want you to dismiss us with doubts and tell us whether you will also put your hand on the fire in this case, in this investigation, and whether the Galician Council is prepared to ensure that the contest under judicial investigation has been carried out in compliance with all legal requirements.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u338	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u339	The truth is, he does it pretty well. It unites one news on the one hand, on the other, and also with a very good argument for a film. The truth is it's a very good argument. But I believe that we are in reality, and here we have to do what they are done, talk about facts, and even at the judicial level — it is good that Mr. Justice says it in excess. Look, in the question you say: are you prepared to ensure that the contest under judicial investigation has been carried out in compliance with all legal requirements? I say it in a word: absolutely, absolutely. The answer is easy in that sense. The procurement process of the earth's urgent health transport service, carried out by the public foundation recruitment body Health emergencies 061 logically agrees and in accordance with the Public Sector Contracts Act. We can't change the law, we're going according to the law. To date, the resolutions of 11 appeals brought before the Central Administrative Court of Contractual Resources, — were 11 appeals — were in favour of the public foundation. The Court confirmed that the principles of equality, free competition and non-discrimination are guaranteed, on the basis of the requirements laid down in the pleas, which were granted to adjudicate companies for a period of six months to adapt ambulances to the requirement and thus be able to submit themselves without the availability of vehicles at the time of tender. That's what you said, and that also another partner of another party on one occasion also said about what they knew because they had everything labeled, that doesn't give points. In six months you have to prepare us. Three cases were brought before the Supreme Court of Justice Administrative Dispute Court of Galicia, one of them by Northern Ambulances, S.L. and Ambulances Juan Rodríguez e Hijos, S.L., auctioning company to lot 12 of the ground emergency health transport contest, not resulting in adjudicatory of it, with favorable judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which was issued in February 2017 a few days ago. The other two demands were made by UTE Golden Ambulances, Galego Health Transport, a company that presented itself to Lot 8 of the Land Urgent Health Transport Competition, which did not result in the latter being excluded from the contract table of the file by failing to comply with the requirement in the prayers by including the envelope "b" information that allowed to know criteria for automatic assessment on "c". With which, as everyone knows, when it gets confused and if you put a envelope where it's not, it's automatically excluded. As a result of this exclusion, two applications were lodged in the Supreme Court of Justice Court of Galicia. The Public Emergency Sanitary Foundation has an official knowledge of the pre-delices of the procedure abbreviated by the requirement to this foundation, with the date of entry on December 5, 2016, of the data of contact persons of the adjudicate companies, as well as of the technical prescriptions of the current health transport service contract...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u340	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u341	Just a minute, because if you don't... No, I say it because, if they want, I explain it; otherwise, I don't explain it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u342	Concrete that matter, because it's important. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, it matters, it does.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u343	This procedure is followed by the same company which brought two appeals to the Central Administrative Court of Contractual Resources and two appeals to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u344	Thank you. Mrs. Solla's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u345	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u346	That mic doesn't work well, it wasn't listening too well before.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u347	Well, I move, this is my seat.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u348	You're telling me your lawyer is the one on the side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u349	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u350	Let's see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u351	No, I'm in my seat. I'm going to move, but this is my partner's seat. It doesn't matter. It's okay. This is what's set, it's all right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u352	Well, come on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u353	Counselor, I will hold -- and I will wait for the sentence -- in your words, because they are the second ones. He's already done it in the case of hepatitis C, precisely defending who's being investigated. But I, when we ask the question about legal conditions, I do not ask you to explain administrative processes according to the law of contracts. What the cause says — which, by the way, is not recent, but has been researching for 18 months — is that the law firms might have received information about the characteristics of the ambulances. You don't tell this spokesman, and you don't tell the spokesman of any other group, we just transfer the information you transcended after the secret has been raised. Obviously, there is no sentence yet. But there are some very high signs, and that's exactly why we ask the question. Because we are talking about the setting up of conditions for competitions that, as has already been reported, imply that only large companies — as in this case — can access these types of competitions, remaining outside all the small companies in the country or, in the worst of luck, being absorbed — as has happened and how I have just moved them — just a few months before, curiously in an area that later got the adjudication in 2014. So, Mr. Almuña, regardless of the outcome of the investigation, from En Marea, we have transferred to him that we do not understand how you were holding him and justifying him, even with these indications. And there's no other kind of explanation. And, in addition, when it is the workers who have to suffer precisely the cuts derived from cutting down with these accounts and the conditions of the terms of the terms of these contracts; they suffer, in addition — as I have already transferred them and we will certainly debate very soon in this House — also the consequences of the lack of negotiation and the precariousness that it also entails in this case the transfer of the central of the 061.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u354	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Mr. Counsellor's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u355	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, as much as I repeat, you do not have any specific data. You're talking about assumptions, if someone from the People's Party... let it go like this, without saying anything, because here you don't have to answer other things. What I'm telling you is that the judicial investigation is not focused on whether prevarication could exist, it only presents itself against a specific worker, exclusively, of the foundation, and by trafficking in influence. At no time was 061 required as investigated, 061, of what you ask me. Look, I've already commented on it in the various resources — which were won in all cases by Foundation 061 — there was no irregularity during the process. One of the appeals made referred to the fact that the contracts were in favour of the Greek companies, which is contradictory to what they say from the Parliamentary Group in Marea, which says otherwise. But besides, you can't talk about favor treatment for a company that turned out to be adjudicate of most of the lots. Of the 14 lots that were in this contest, the company that got the most obtained 3; and in some cases after the purchase of the previous adjudicatery. This factor cannot be foreseen by the Administration, which never intervenes in the particular relationships between private companies. He draws attention to his comments to the lack of information about this particular. For example, in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense all the adjudicate companies were German. As for the privileged information, this statement makes no sense, since having vehicles before the competition was no advantage, as I said earlier. They'd have to have them in the next six months of the contract adjudication. Vehicles shall be adapted to the UNE standard, which is included in Decree 836/212, and to the decree of the Welsh transport, which marks what type B and C ambulances should be, those included in the contest. The minimum changes made to the stakes had to be made on existing vehicles, as they were not known until they were published. In conclusion, the process of recruiting the earth's emergency health transport service, carried out by the public foundation recruitment body Emergency health care in Galicia, 061, was carried out in conformity with the applicable regulations, ensuring at all times strict compliance with the legislation. I want to make it very clear that at no time was 061 required as investigated. The judicial investigation is not focused on whether prevarication could exist, but is presented exclusively against a worker of the foundation. Let's not try to confuse. It's not all right. And that's why you also mix up the transfer of the 061. The transfer of 061 is done to improve the service, because, as we said at that time, today that transfer has not occurred, it is negotiating with staff for the problems they may have. That's a negotiation and we're going to have months to do it. But, of course, this is what we're going to do better. A single centre will integrate the attention of all the emergencies of Galicia. In the same building they will operate together and coordinated, in addition to 061 and 112, those representing the state's security forces and bodies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u356	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u357	Centralization of services will make it possible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u358	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u359	...the combined attention to community emergencies, and that's why I think it's a positive result of improved service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u360	Thank you very much, Counselor. We are now debating the question of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández, of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and that of Mrs Ángeles Cuña, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order regarding the maintenance of public job offer announced for education in 2017 Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the date scheduled by the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination for the convening of public education announced oppositions for 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u361	First of all, Mrs Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u362	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today we want to give you a second chance, Counselor. We're splendid. It's March 8 and we saw it like this, in a good spirit. A new opportunity with regard to the situation that hits the people who are waiting for the summons in our country of opposition in education -- we spoke yesterday morning of this -- not to repeat, precisely, the same arguments you gave us yesterday about a legal security that you don't have to look anywhere. We've already told you, it counts on it since the 2016 budgets were extended to the beginning of this year and then it was also approved here in Galicia those corresponding to the 2017 fiscal year. We do not want to repeat these arguments, we give you this second opportunity to get rid of the use that the Ministry of Business and, by extension, the People's Party in the Spanish State is also making of the opposing people as currency of exchange and as a political weapon — I said yesterday — in the negotiations of budgets, and to summon those oppositions, that offer of public employment in education, already. Lance — I also told him yesterday morning — a message of confidence and tranquillity calling for that public job offer. He shows with facts and not with words his commitment to defending the interests of Galicia, the public education of this country. It responds to the demands that were also transferred to it by trade union organisations, particularly by some of them, such as IGC-teaching, at the sectoral table that took place on 2 March. You have the support of the political forces of this Parliament's opposition, as I pointed out yesterday. We don't know if you enjoy the same support on your bench. But, above all, it counts on the support of all those people who want to compete with these oppositions and who are waiting for the Government of Galicia to publish the summons and not keep them hostage to blackmail. Because — and I said it yesterday and I repeat it again — we see what is happening with the oppositions that you promised — and I must remind you, of course, during your visit to the Education Commission in December 2016, in the context of the budget debate — that was the holder of the day, that was exactly what the headline was looking for and that was done; we now see what is happening right now in the face of this blackmail, because it cannot be named more than that. Furthermore, we believe that not only are we blackmailing the people who want to compete with this public job offer that is promised and publicly announced, but also that somehow the attitude that the People's Party, the Spanish Fairy Minister and the Spanish Government themselves are leaving them in a bad situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u363	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u364	...everytime they had announced this call publicly. There goes the second opportunity, Mr Rodríguez: will you summon the oppositions in education, as opponents, trade unions and the forces of the opposition demand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u365	Thank you very much. You have now the turn to pose the question to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u366	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Let me begin with verses, taking advantage that it is the Day against labour inequality that produces and reproduces and against male violence. "Woman, if your ideas have grown, they'll say very ugly things about you: you're not good, if such a thing, that when you shut up you're much more beautiful. Woman, open spine between leathers, chain of ancestral links, strong ovary, say what you are worth. Life starts when we're all equal and all. When you don't want to be an incubator, they'll say, these women don't serve right now. Woman, seed, fruit, flower, way. Thinking is highly feminine. There's in your chest two fountains, running white, not commercial ads." As I also have -- it's very important -- to give an answer to this posture, even some adjectives will be repeated here. We believe that the position of the incoming government, when the minister says: we know the importance of convening oppositions, we say: well, we are fully aware; well, we know that there is a need to reduce interinternity; we say: well, we also have to see that budget allocations; well, they are minimal, we know it too. Then it's a matter of knowing and seeing, seeing how to do it right. Good. See how it fits, reassure the opponents. Good. But under all this, we believe there is a serious and powerful reason. What's that? It's the approval of general budgets, because the minister also says: I went to Brussels, to Paris or to France and I found a misunderstanding; I don't understand people as they don't approve the general budgets. Of course, that deficit target they have to meet is under this — yes — first blackmail. There's blackmail, and there's blackmail to get the budgets approved. Secondly, there is submission by the German Government. Thirdly, there is a threat of impeachment; of course, there are experts in administrative law specialized in processes of access to public service that say they have legally failed to see the arguments that will be used by the State Counsel or by the Union itself to reject this, because it can be shielded. We know it and they know it. What's the matter is, you have to put pressure on it. For what? For the budget to be approved. There's a lack of leadership, the decision to move to the Fairy, it's often a matter of legal certainty. Counsellor, you know we're interested in legal security. They're talking about opponents. Of course, but opponents feel anxiety, for time, money and efforts that are invested; they feel absolute uncertainty, they're recent; I repeat the noun, which is to approve budgets. They go from time to time to throwing cold water jugs, generating nervousness and ambiguity, not for sure, not tranquility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u367	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u368	So the question is what they're going to ask, because, with regard to the calendar, the offer would have to go out in February, the call in March, to make the oppositions in June, and that teachers and teachers could occupy their squares in September. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u369	Thank you very much. The Councillor, Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u370	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that my speech doesn't change much in twenty-four hours, as it hasn't changed much of itss; neither has it changed much. In any case, I am grateful for the new opportunity to be able to repeat a message that I believe the citizenship of Galicia already knows and I believe that the opponents, who are thousands of young people who deposit their vital hopes in this process, also know. I think it's all practically said. The Galician Union has the desire to convene the public job offer for 2017, and we want to do so with the maximum guarantees of legal security, for two fundamental reasons: the first, for the opponents themselves, and the second, because there are real guarantees to the process. We told you yesterday how things were. There were announcements, not by this autonomous community, by all the autonomous communities of the state, with different political parties. In the months of December and January this council, this government, at the last sectoral table on March 2, ratified its willingness to convene oppositions, obviously in the necessary legal security conditions at national level so that they can be done. We're working within possible dates, within possible margins. The oppositions would no doubt call when the situation is unblocked at the state level and when there is certainty at the state level to celebrate them, as it seems to be customary, once the classes are finished and before the summer, so that the workers can start working on the official professional scheme in September. And I think the data has already been told; I'm going to repeat: 1,043 squares, 100% of the replenishment rate, 540 secondary squares, 80 FP, 400 master's, primary, and 23 stage music and arts. We have all the work done. All the work is done and is subject to certainty in the legal framework. And this is not just something Galicia does. Galicia does it because it's a responsible government, as it has to be, but it's not just Galicia. Other autonomous communities are also waiting for the situation to be unlocked; it is not only Galicia; it is Madrid, it is Asturias, it is Cantabria; that is, there are governments of different colors. And these -- let's say -- affectionate adjectives that you say of submission, of submission, of blackmail, etc., I suppose those autonomous communities will say the same thing, even though they are very like you governments. In any case, we insist: a political party, an administration has to decide with responsibility, and we want to have legal certainty. Why? Because we can't put thousands of Thursdays in Galicia, in Spain, hundreds of thousands of Thursdays. And the best solution is clear, we have to say: the best solution is budget approval. The Ministry of Education itself, which is the Government's spokesperson, also said that if he did not leave this way, he would have to look for some kind of solution, he would have to try to find some legal qualifications that would make it possible for there to be a certainty, legal certainty. You tell me, why don't we do it now? Look, in the past, there were precedents, very close to time, that generate enormous frustration in people, and that is an effect and a useless work. In 2012 in Andalusia, an OPE was summoned without legal certainty; it arrived at the Constitutional and dropped it below. Imagine that frustration for people and families to make a process without legal certainty. And of course, what should we do? We want there to be stability, because here we all agree, that there is one respect for the opponents, that they will consume a very important part of their lives and deposit lots of vital hopes in these processes, and I think that less than giving them legal certainty and guarantees. And also on other occasions there's been something like this, a situation like this. A little while ago there was debate about the proof that I came to replace the old selectivity, the second-second-degree baccalaureate test, and we always said that there had to be calm, calm within the deadlines, have time and work positively. And I think it's done. What happened? While on the one hand we were talking about what was going to be a disaster, what was all the way up, we were working, with the ICG and the three universities, to generate certainty and tranquility and to design an evaluation system that would serve to replace the old selectivity that ultimately met the requirements that everyone was asking for: that they were very similar to selectivity -- that is -- that it wasn't necessary to have the degree of Bachelorship -- that is -- and that it had to be for students who needed access to the university -- and so it was. There were some legal deadlines, some political movements, resulting from instability, which, once they were able to solve, we were able to do so within the legal deadlines and legal times, just as we are now. So, I insist on what I said at first: I think in relation to the oppositions what we demand is that there be certainty and legal certainty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u371	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u372	...and to express and reiterate the strong will of the Council of Galicia to carry them out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u373	Thank you very much, Counselor. You have the word for reply, first of all, Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u374	Thank you, President. I'm glad you remove the theme of selectivity. We knew yesterday, precisely through the press, the fundamental outlines of this new test, some of the problems you realized, of delays, uncertainties, of insecurity, which created precisely his party and the People's Party in Madrid when he committed himself actively and passively to imposing on us the upheavals. And then what had to be done? [[Applause]] Go back, because there was no other one left, and look for some patch to get out of the problem before they had to meet those university access tests. With regard to legal security, which now concerns them so much, I don't see you giving them so much concern in the month of December, that we had practically the same legal conditions that we have today, except that the budgets of the Board were still in the process of parliamentary debate, and then you didn't shake their voice at any time to advertise almost practically to the number of squares that would be called and the specialities. I mean, you put them in that insecurity, that insecurity. So now hang on to the consequences. [[Applause]] The question that I ask you — and see if you can answer me in the reply — is that you are going to do it, then if Montoro decides again not to solve the problem, because we are constantly — I told you yesterday — looking for when we get permission to do things, not even when we have the money, we have the approved budgets and a government that does not raise the voice absolutely to counter nothing the interests of Spain and the People's Party in the Spanish State. That is a finding, and I repeat that this goes to all the forces represented in this House, the finding that political recentralisation brings only problems. They have the ability, competences and sovereignty, though little and narrow, to summon these oppositions. Do it, because we've been in this mess, precisely you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u375	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You have the word to reply to Mrs. Cuña Bóveda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u376	With regard to the other communities, you have named several, you have missed — I know — Canary Islands. There are only five communities that are pending to make decisions; the rest have added them, decisions have been made together with the unions, which here was not exactly like this; and then there are four that go forward. I'm not going to stop on this, because you know exactly what these communities are. With regard to whether there are doubts about the legal security of offers, because they can look for ways to shield themselves; we are talking about which exits; for example, by setting up a transitional provision where it is stated that the public job offer will be executed to the extent that the restorative rate approved in the 2017 budgets is respected. Article 20 is in force. What can you say? That you have not just seen the arguments that you fight for this to be annulled in the future. Why? Because the public offer approved in 2017, with 100% of the replacement rate that was approved in 2016, can start to walk; that is, if we have 100% of the squares, which, as it says, are 1,043 squares in Galicia, you may have possibilities to blink. That's first. Second. What you said about the substitution of selectivity, which I know, you say meets the deadlines. It's a mistake to decide what the test will be like if I'm not mistaken; at least three days ago. I'd also like you to answer with respect to this, because it didn't close, just again, the Greek language, which stays out. Nothing else. Please tell us — and we are faced with the same question — what if the minister decides that there is no extension?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u377	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u378	Can we keep working or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u379	Thank you very much. He has the Government's reply to the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think we have to be realistic; if we are not realistic, for we really have many difficulties. But all the autonomous communities, around December-January, announced that they started the procedures to convene public job offer markets in education, because it is not a procedure that takes place from day to day; it is not doing this and that the procedure appears; there are legal deadlines and it must start to do so within a period of time and time; and all, we have done it. And I think we're talking about legal security here with a lot of joy and obviously you think about Galicia -- and I understand it and it's reasonable -- but, if you see the map of Spain, you see here that there are different ways to deal with this problem. So far, there is only one autonomous community that has called the oppositions, which is the Basque Country; it has called them just the same day this problem began; we don't know what would happen if they hadn't already been in the newsletter, we don't know. There are others, by the way, who have announced that they will be summoned, but until now they have not done so: Catalonia, Balearic Islands or Andalusia, to rule them in different colors. Others — Extremadura, Castilla-La Mancha — said they didn't call them, and why do they say they didn't call them? Precisely claiming that there was no legal certainty; they are their answers to refuse to convene. With which you understand that there is a legal security map in Galicia different from that there may be in other autonomous communities where their ideological partners have political responsibilities, with which I think it must be a little realistic. And I understand that you try to generate alarmism, generate trouble, generate some kind of problem, but I say and I repeat and insist — I say, I repeat and I insist —: there is the strong will of the Galician Council to convene 1,043 educational squares, when there is legal certainty. Why? In order not to put the thousands of opponents, young opponents who play a basis in their lives, on a path that has no return. Because you speak very cheerfully, but what would you say, with your theory, to the Thursdays that in Andalusia in the year 2012 presented themselves to an opposition, in theory because there was legal certainty, and then the judges to the tomb? We are in time, we are in time, we have the same will, we want the same. You want to rush and we want to do it legally. And I insist: in our work situation in education -- I say yesterday, and I repeat it -- we have the lowest internship rate in the state, the lowest in all; ours is 13%, the average is 20 percent, and some autonomous communities are above 30%. You see that there are educational centers in Spain in some autonomous communities -- that I'm not going to say here, so they won't tell me I'm alarming -- where there's no official teacher, or one; and we have... No, in Andalusia, yes, so they pull out the results, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's real data. And we have the ratio of teachers better than the whole of Spain. But still, we want to generate greater stability in the teacher, because we understand it's one of the keys to the system's functioning. Now, we are responsible and I think we should also have a certain institutional respect and not confuse institutional respect and positive work and with responsibility for being blackmailed, as you seem to be trying to say. Look, we want to find solutions, we want to assure thousands of young people that they put their hopes in this process, and what we can't put them in is a chaplain in which there's no legal certainty, because I'm very worried, and very much, that in time there's to be said: no, this didn't work because you rushed. And since we don't want to do it, we've got work done, let's say that we're working on trying to unlock this situation, and finally, as I said yesterday, ladies, time gives and takes away reasons, and when this can be done with legal certainty, I appreciate that you too acknowledge it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-08-DSPG020.u381	Thank you very much, Counselor. Solved the agenda points, we finished the session. Thank you very much and good afternoon.
