ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u1	Good morning, the session is open. The next item is the Official Gazette of Parliament, which is not to be read. Mr. Antonio Mouriño Villar has justified his absence for a health problem. And we're on the agenda. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia, at the request of the GGs. PP. of In Marea, the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block, to account for the results of the Conference of Presidents
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u2	Mr. President of the Galician Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We greet the boys and girls of the Institute of Secondary Education of Brión, who honor us with their presence. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to this Parliament to transfer to you the content, development and results of the Conference of Presidents that we have just celebrated just a week ago, last Tuesday, in the Senate, in Madrid. As you know, this is the third time I have the opportunity to attend a conference of presidents as president of the community. And the first thing I wanted to pass on to you is that on this occasion, in my opinion, this conference has served to reflect on the importance of working together from the legitimate discrepancy but with due loyalty and height of sight. For this reason, I think we are at the first opportunity to see that this conference can have a real benefit for Spain for autonomy. Beyond the concrete agreements we've reached, and in which I'll stop later, let me convey my satisfaction to them for a triple fact. First of all, because the Conference of Presidents had been held, as we have been complaining since Galicia, and that it had been in a climate of cordiality. Secondly, because we will have instruments to monitor and follow up the conference itself to ensure that the agreements reached are developed in time and form. And thirdly, because we have been able to pave the way for an extraordinary forum so far, the Conference of Presidents — only five conferences of presidents since the 1978 Constitution — to become a body that works in a usual way for the common placement of matters that affect us. From every point of view, any one of you can see that the shared will of all of us who participate in that conference is to set up a new framework in which autonomous communities can first debate together the concerns; secondly, to make our efforts closer so that the improvement of the functioning of public administrations is made with a whole vision; and finally, as a result of the previous ones, to be more useful to citizens. That was the maximum that led the preparatory work, a key role for the meeting to be truly useful. It was also the peak who presided over the meeting, in which we all spoke, and heard us without cuts. I hope it will be the best in the future too so that this first important but insufficient step will be completed and implemented in agreements, even in state agreements, on fundamental issues for all citizens. Many of you will remember that more than seven years ago — some of you, at least — appeared the same as today to account for the presidents' conference in December 2009. Then I said that, due to a lack of preparation, their usefulness had been compromised. Well, on the contrary, I think I can say on this occasion that if there was an interesting previous work and an effort of all to reach agreements and to make those agreements something productive. We can't lose sight, in any case, of what presidents' conferences are supposed to be. It can never be said that these meetings will come out with definitive solutions to the problems. But if I think, at least on this occasion, if we can talk about a clear intention to take steps forward to face important challenges, challenges that we have before us. And what is perhaps most remarkable is that it showed an intention to do so, and to do it together, dialogue between all of us and for all of us. Because, indeed, the agreements reached and those that can derive further will be fruit of the comings of all those who want to participate and thought for the well-being and prosperity of all Spaniards, living where they live. If Galicia has always defended the use of the Conference of Presidents more frequently, it is precisely because in our view, and as has been demonstrated, it can be an axile body to address matters that require the consensus of the Central Government and the consensus of self-government. No unilateral policy, much less if it is medium-light and reserved, nor any unilateral policy, whether it is medium-light or reserved, must replace the common forums to address the priorities that are of all. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, the conference was right for now. That's why we'll keep right on walking in the unit that came out of it. And that's why those who didn't want to go to her will have to explain why they're self-exclusive of the possibility of enriching the important agreements for the lives of the citizens they represent. And I say important agreements because finally there came out a total of 11 agreements on various subjects that they all have a special transcendence for the exercise of our self-government, and to offer better services and better opportunities to citizens. There we have talked about, among other things, the following: self-financing, how to finance dependence and how to often analyse the impact of health spending on total expenditure of autonomous communities; how to go towards an educational model agreed, durable and effective; how to improve employment opportunities; how to improve relations with the European Union and the presence of autonomous communities in the formation of the Central Government will in the forums of the Union; of the refugee crisis; of gender violence; how to help families with less resources in access to electricity or through the social card; and, of course, there talked about a key theme to ensure our future, a key theme for Spain, but, of course, a key theme for the proposal of autonomous communities and especially the Autonomous Community Galga, there talked about the demographic evolution of the whole. In all of them I think you've come to interesting agreements. And I believe that, from Galicia's point of view, we can say that it was first achieved that key issues such as self-financing, health expenditure and demography, which we wanted before the conference were dealt with, were during the conference at the top of the table and formed a fundamental part of the final agreements. And, secondly, Galicia has achieved that it was treated with a wide range of aims and constructive spirit by all there present the health, dependence and demographic problems of Galicia. Before I comment on you in more detail on all the agreements we have reached, let me explain to you that I will leave to the end the agreements that I consider most relevant at this moment. I mean, of course, three, I mean education, autonomic funding and the demographic challenge. There were seven other proposed opening agreements referred to, as I have just concluded, firstly, the functioning of the Conference of Presidents; secondly, civil protection; thirdly, relations with the Union; fourthly, the unity of the market, digital administration and public employment; fifthly, the social bond as a guarantee of supply to families with less resources; sixthly, the social card; and seventhly, employment. And in addition to those established at the beginning, we could include two new issues of relevance: the fight against gender-based violence and the paragraph referring to the situation of refugees. I am therefore now offering you the assessment that we have made since the Government with regard to each of these agreements. Firstly, the Agreement on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Conference of Presidents, which refers mainly to the amendment of Article 8 to add two functions of the preparatory committee of that Conference. First, take the necessary steps to ensure compliance with the agreements, including six-month follow-up meetings. The second is to coordinate the actions of the sectoral conferences and the correct implementation of the Law on the Jurisdiction of the Public Sector in relation to inter-administrative relations. We remember at the beginning, but I insist again that we positively value this plugin, because it is supposed to give the Conference a greater operational capacity and ensure that its agreements will be monitored so that they can be evaluated. Finally, the guarantee that every six months there will be a follow-up to the agreements and an annual conference of presidents at least. In the investment speech I made in this House less than a hundred days ago, I myself said that it would be a step forward to make the Conference of Presidents from being something exceptional and almost symbolic to becoming something ordinary and something effective. That is why we understand that this agreement can contribute to the fact that both the General Administration of the State and the autonomous communities involve us more in the elaboration of realistic agreements, feasible agreements and, above all, agreements that have a real impact on the ordinary life of people. Since Galicia, recalling that President Fraga was the first one who spoke of the need for this conference of presidents, we can only be satisfied with the steps taken to ensure that this conference has a vocation of continuity, six-monthly follow-up and annual periodicity. Secondly, we have reached an agreement on civil protection. We believe that this agreement will serve to improve coordination among public administrations in emergency care, and that is why we agreed on the constitution of the National Council for Civil Protection before 31 March and the adoption of measures for the development of joint work within the Council. As stated in the agreement, coordination and cooperation should not be an objective, but a guarantee of the quality of response to emergency situations. So we welcome any step that goes in the line of trying to achieve maximum coordination, maximum flexibility, maximum efficiency and effectiveness in civil protection actions in the state as a whole. Thirdly, relations with the European Union, as all your lords know, are key to the life of the autonomous communities and to our relationship with the General Administration of the State. For so many matters in which European regulation directly affects the Greek homes, for all of the Greeks, we must develop coordination in the position of the central government in the European institutions from autonomous governments. And much more in this context where European construction is questioned by some. There we have, for example, the challenge of Brexit, which will be one before and after in our relations and in the configuration of the European Union itself. And in that process the voice of autonomous communities must be heard and valued. In this sense, I think it is a step forward in last Tuesday's agreement, so it is decided to convene the European Union-related conference in the first quarter of 2017 with four objectives. The first is to review and update the functioning and organisation of the European Union-related conference itself. Secondly, to assess coordination in the preparation of the Councils of the Union. Thirdly, to encourage greater participation of sectoral conferences in setting up the Spanish position before the Community institutions. And finally, to strengthen coordination between the State Administration and the autonomous communities in the processes of negotiation, programming, management and execution of European funds, which are important, essential, for Galicia. Since the creation of this conference, Galicia has been actively involved in all its organs and has been one of the driving communities of many of the proposals. That is why everything that means moving forward, reviewing and updating the functioning and organization of the conference for European affairs is also positively appreciated by the Government. As I pointed out earlier, in this agreement we decided to incorporate a new point on the situation of refugees, further aggravated by the harshness of this winter in Europe, and for what we are going to promote a coordinated emergency aid plan through the cooperation or development departments of all public administrations. Fourthly, the important agreement on market unity, digital administration, inter-administrative mobility and recovery of replacement rates for public employees in key administrative areas. As I said at the outset, we are a country without borders and without barriers, and therefore agreements aimed at strengthening this idea, as is the paragraph referred to in the market unit, must always be well received. In the digital administration, we believe that it is also a step forward that recognizes the need to work more in promoting the use of shared services and tools with the aim of agitating and simplifying citizens' relations with their public administrations. In the same sense of eliminating barriers, we believe it is also desirable to continue to move forward to facilitate the mobility of public workers in all public administrations that make up the Spanish State. Through the principle of mobility, it is about achieving, on the one hand, better use of the human resources of the public sector and, on the other, that public employees can change both job and job and location, and thus facilitate geographic mobility throughout the national territory. It's about working now to advance on issues such as reciprocity to reinforce this bet by the mobility of public employees in all administrations. In public employment, we also agreed to analyze the replacement rates according to the needs of the priority sectors of the autonomous communities — in which they undoubtedly merge all their lordships — and health, education, social services, security and emergencies. We welcome the possibility of abolishing the replacement rates for public personnel at the moment. We remember that the replacement rates were reduced to 10% during the previous socialist government, and it was a measure of obligation to comply with all Spanish public administrations. Subsequently, this limitation has expanded to 30% in education, health and social services. Subsequently, it also increased in essential public services up to 50% —replacement capacity in 2015 — and 100% in the past year, 2016. The Union has fulfilled, as it cannot be otherwise, the laws of the State, and much more the basic laws of thanking all administrations. However, I remind you again that the Board has always maintained that at a time of economic recovery it is possible to remove the replacement rates so that administrations can cope with the ageing of their staff in certain public services. But even though it is a fact that we are starting a period of economic recovery — which I hope will be consolidated — the reality is that there are still many families with serious difficulties. That is why the Conference of Presidents also reached two agreements that directly affect these families: the case of the social bond and the case of the social card. With regard to the social bond and the guarantee of electricity supply, it was agreed that autonomous communities have an effective participation in the regulatory development of Royal Decree Law 7/2016, so the mechanism for financing the cost of the social bond and other measures to protect the vulnerable consumer is regulated. In addition, the agreement envisages the collaboration of the General Administration of the State and the electricity sector in financing the measures put in place by the autonomous communities to help vulnerable consumers. We believe that this collaboration between different administrations and that reference to how to support all families is very necessary, and that is why we properly value this agreement. In fact, in Galicia, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, we've been working on this line for some time. We are pioneers in activating measures to respond to the needs of the most vulnerable consumers. Since 2014 we have a social electric ticket, which contributes to the payment of the bill of light with up to 300 euros per year per family. Last year we added an automatic mechanism to prevent the cutting of light by default to families with less resources, which in 2017, of course, will be maintained and which, in addition, extends to natural gas. In total, since 2014 we have helped over 6,000 families, over 6,000 homes. Also related to people with more needs we want to move forward in the configuration of the future social card, which will allow access to the register of public social benefits so that the benefits that any person receives from any public service can be known at all times. That is why the agreement is that within three months we will create a working group with participation from the State Administration, the Autonomous Communities and the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, which will also incorporate the approaches of the third sector of social action, for the design and implementation of the social card. I'm sure Galicia will be able to draw closer to its experience in the development of the single social history, which, as you know, is beginning to be implanted in our autonomous community since last summer. I believe it speaks well of the development of the Conference of Presidents in reaching agreement on a subject which has not been subjected to the pre-meeting work. A matter like masculine violence, gender violence, could not be left out of a document that collected the opinions and concerns of presidents and autonomic presidents. That's why I think the next monographic debate to hold in the Senate, as indicated in the agreement, will be a good opportunity to continue insisting on the need to work together to achieve a pact that will contribute to ridding our society of this problem. Finally, before I stop at the three themes which I consider to be key to the meeting, I will no doubt refer to another of great importance: employment. The conference spoke more specifically about active employment policies and how they deal with them at a time when it is necessary to consolidate the path taken over the past two years by creating a million jobs. Without a doubt, the agreement reached could serve as an impetus for renewing the Spanish Employment Activation Strategy 2017-2020, paying attention to creating more jobs and, above all, more more jobs of higher purchasing power. It is good that there is a need to improve the coordination and information exchange instruments within the framework of the National Employment System by advancing to this end the evaluation of active employment policies based on results and their planning in the first quarter of 2017 as well. It reinforces the commitment to further improving the vocational training system, in particular dual training, by promoting the participation of autonomous communities in the management of available resources. And it is also established in the agreement that the priority orientation of services and programmes in this area should, firstly, focus on improving the employability of young people, young people; secondly, on employability of other vulnerable groups — more than 65, long-term unemployed, people at risk of social exclusion and people with functional diversity. In Galicia we are clear that active employment policies can and should be strengthened, and for that reason, for this 2017, employment and training budgets are 16.4% lower than last year 2016. In addition, with a clear commitment, firstly, to creating more stable and quality jobs; secondly, by training and guidance focused on the needs of the labour market, with particular attention to the development of industry 4.0. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia we have set the challenge of creating 20,000 new jobs this year 2017, after obtaining the Greek society that 80,000 people have left the unemployment lists since the beginning of the previous legislation 2012-2016. Now I'm going to comment on the three things I think this conference can be remembered if we're able to complete the work that we started. I refer to the pact for education, demographic challenge and self-financing. As for the education pact, I think it's good to remember that our education system has important weaknesses. Nor does anyone argue that throughout the democratic period all the organic laws involved — all driven by governments of the Socialist Party, except LOMCE — never broke a general agreement, nor those promoted by the People's Party. And, therefore, the fact that there now seems to be such a will to achieve a social and political pact in education is a source of satisfaction. It opens a new stage, a new stage of dialogue with all members of the educational community, with the sole aim of realizing a pact for which citizens are claiming political responsibility. In this understanding that should be sought, it is good — in my opinion it is not good, it is essential — that the opinion of the autonomous communities should not stand aside. And it is therefore crucial that a monographic debate on education had been agreed at the General Commission of Autonomous Communities in the Senate, a debate to incorporate the diagnosis and approach of autonomous communities into the work of the social and political pact for education. In this context, Galicia is in a position to approach its experience in aspects in which I think we can approach. I am referring, for example, to the implementation of multilingual teaching and the balance of co-official languages. I'm referring to the approach of coexistence in educational centers. With the Law of coexistence and participation of the educational community, adopted by this Parliament, with the protocols of action, we were the first to regulate the prevention, detection and treatment of harassment and cyber harassment, as well as with the first Equal Education Plan. In addition, I believe that we can also approach the empowerment of vocational training, with the offer of new cycles adapted to the economic and social reality of each area, with the bet on integrated vocational training centres and the development of modalities such as Dual Vocational Training, Basic Vocational Training and Distance Vocational Training. I think we can also approach the specialization of educational supply in university fields, which is what we are currently working on in Spain as a pioneering autonomous community. And we can also come to funding for the results of the university system, which is currently in force in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, we must try a state pact, a state pact for education, and I hope that we will take this opportunity on this occasion. Just as setting up a quality education is key to our future, it's also key to facing the challenge that demographic evolution is posing to all of us, of course in Galicia, but also in Spain and most of the European Union. It is a challenge marked by a progressive ageing of the population that requires a configuration of population pyramids with very narrow bases that compromise the viability of the entire welfare system. This is one of the concerns that Galicia wanted to bring to the Conference of Presidents, and I believe that the agreement reached takes the first step, which is not a minor one, to recognize the transcendence of the demographic problem and to start talking about how to deal with it in a coordinated manner, for the first time, throughout the country. As you know and as we have many times said in this House, that problem is not a new problem, it comes from the last century, from the 1980s. It's not a new problem and therefore it won't be solved in the short term because it's been managing, as I say, for decades. But it is also now beginning to become a reality in many of the autonomous Spanish communities and in many of the States of the Union. In Galicia, in particular, we went from 40,000 births in the mid-1970s to a minimum of 18,500 in 1998, and are now around 20,000. It went from a percentage of over 65 years of age to 16.5% in 1991 to 24% today. But there is no country in Europe that does not now have a fertility rate that guarantees generational relief. Only France approaches it, 2.1; Spain, 1.32; Germany, 1.47, Italy, 1.37; United Kingdom, 1.82; Sweden, 1.88. In Galicia, we have talked about this priority, and this needs individual and collective work, and that's why we work here and work with our partners from other autonomous communities and we create the Spanish Regional Forum with Demographic Challenges. So the fact that we now remember that a national strategy against the demographic challenge is going to be developed, that this issue had focused much of the conference and is now on the priority political agenda of the whole nation, as the President of the Central Government pointed out in his press round, has great value for us. It is worth the fact that the agreement pointed out that this national strategy should be approved this year 2017, and it is also worth all the work we have done on it, a work that will serve as a basis — so explicitly the agreement — to formulate the national strategy against the demographic challenge. And it is worth it because we agree that, as far as we are able, we all defend before the European Union authorities that Community policies have to respond to demographic challenges. Finally, with regard to self-financing, we all agree that this is also a key issue to be addressed without delay, and with the most constructive attitude possible. We have examples of what worked out, and we are actually experiencing the consequences of a model that was born out of multilateral negotiation, which was designed to meet the specific political needs of an autonomous community and its relationship with the central government of turn. I think we all share that we must not fall back into the mistakes of the past. Here we know that when we talk about self-financing, we talk about resources needed to provide services, services that have some costs. And that's what we've all been there trying to talk about. Everyone, I insist on everyone, because this is not a problem that will be solved by bilateral dialogues. And, as I said earlier, those who haven't been invited to join this joint dialogue. The model will be all or not. And as we had made it clear that the model must collect the actual cost of services, the debate must be more of the needs of people than of land planning. What it's about is how services arrive equally to the boys, the elders, the families, the people who live in the city, those who live in small villages or those who live in the villages. At last Tuesday's meeting we had an opportunity to talk about it, and talk about how Galicia needs to be taken into account its peculiarities. So I could remind the rest of the presidents of the following data. The population over 65 in Galicia is 5% more than the average in Spain: 24% in Galicia and 19% in Spain. We have 6% of the population, but 14% of the total number of health centres and 8% of the total number of schools. School transport in Galicia is almost 4 times more expensive than the average of the Spanish population, and can cost more than 4,000 euros per student on occasion. I have also had occasion to remind the rest of the presidents that the system must be stable, sustainable and progressive — as I have demonstrated in this Parliament — stable to overcome the continuing situation of provisionality, sustainable so that it will not end up being frustrating by unreality, and progressive in that it will allow solidarity transvasion from autonomous communities with more resources to other autonomous communities with less income. And of course I also had an opportunity to remind them of the importance of thinking about the impact of health spending on the total expenditure of autonomous communities. Health expenditure represents between 37% and 40% of the non-financial expenditure of the autonomous communities. In autonomous communities such as Madrid is already 42%. Pharmaceutical spending in Galicia is three times as much as spending in universities. In Galicia, 65-year-olds account for almost 50% of hospital stays, and 65-year-olds account for 62% of total pharmacy expenses. From Galicia we have to show some satisfaction for the fact, first, that we should be heard and, according to that our approaches were accepted. The good reception by the unanimous practice of all autonomous presidents in their interventions made a paragraph to Galicia's proposal, which is included in the agreement, where it is obliged to study the impact of health expenditure on the expenditure set of autonomous communities in order to compute a financing system. It is not only about how we ensure the maintenance of the health system that we now have — which, of course, too — but about how we can face the challenge of further improving, how we can face the challenge of further expanding, continuing to modernize, improve hospitals, continue to plan hospital directors, continue to purchase technology, follow up and complete the map of health centres in Galicia; finally, we can also incorporate new advances and new benefits and new diagnostic techniques. As I have just said, there will only be a new model of funding if there is agreement. And I add: there will only be agreement if public health is addressed with relevance, rigor and seriousness that is needed. I would like to highlight another aspect of the agreement, so I think we can all show satisfaction. I am referring to the fact that the financing agreement has to raise the need to analyse the situation of concern to the unit and its financing. It's a particularly sensitive matter so that we all get involved in finding solutions to the difficulties that the current model may be generating. And finally the agreement also envisages the commitment to analyse how fiscal co-responsibility is being exercised in the whole of the autonomous communities that we make up Spain. In short, in the iodine of the new financing model, the playing field is marked, and now much work remains to be done. First of all, a committee of experts should be set up and set up within a maximum of one month by which the State proposes and one by each autonomous community. This committee will have to carry out the necessary analyses for the subsequent formulation of a new model of autonomous financing, based on the principles of LOFCA, the principles of solidarity, adequacy, equity, transparency and fiscal co-responsibility, ensuring that citizens have access to public services in accordance with the actual cost of public services and making a special fincapé in health spending policies. Here's the milestone for the experts. And once the experts prepare their report, this analysis will go up to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. The goal is to have a new financing model at the end of 2017; that is yes, a new consensus funding model. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the balance of the Conference of Presidents is positive and hopeful. Why? Because it's done an important previous job with the search for agreements always in mind, because there was an open and unrestricted dialogue in which we all participate, and because there's a desire for agreements to be put into practice. It is positive and hopeful from the point of Galicia, especially because all the issues we have raised have been specifically collected, those we are interested in, or we would say that we are most interested in: demographics and health expenditure. But this positive appraisal should not make us forget the reality of what this conference of presidents is. After almost five years of holding, this conference of presidents is no more than a starting point. We hope it will be a starting point for a new time of understanding, but we are aware that there is a long work ahead. It won't be easy, but I'd like to believe that the willingness to agree that I had the opportunity to live a week ago by everyone we were there was not just a pose, and we can achieve the goals marked if we continue the scope and content of the attitudes shown there and concrete in the agreements. I do not want to forget that in the development of last Tuesday's agreements it would be very interesting to have this Parliament's backing. Our will is that which I have manifested since this very stage in the investment debate. We are open to dialogue and agreement with the House's groups on all matters discussed at the conference, and that is why I want to transfer four concrete commitments to them. The first is that in the wake of autonomous funding the first step we have to take is to appoint the expert or expert representing Galicia in the commission. I think it would be good if this expert's appointment would stir up a high degree of consensus in the House, it would be a good way to begin to profile a strengthened position of country in the negotiation process of the new financing model. To this end, the Fairy Councillor will contact the next few days with parliamentary groups to establish a dialogue on the name of the expert or expert most suitable to perform this task. Our will is to make this person's choice, which since the first meeting in Galicia will be proposed — and we have to do so before a month — to be part of this committee of experts has the largest backing of the House. The second proposal, in relation to the demographic challenge, ladies and gentlemen, follows the offer I myself made at the end of last month. We are open to modify the decree that regulates the composition of the Galego Demographic Dynamization Observatory. In this observatory there is already the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, trade unions, entrepreneurs, universities and experts in this field. It is now about adapting it so that representatives of parliamentary groups can be incorporated. An observatory which has as its main task to achieve a political, social and economic pact that translates into a Welsh law of demographic impulse with the greatest possible consensus. It would be good if the proposals we can make in this body were the proposals that we brought to the national strategy that the presidents agreed to have adopted in 2017. Third proposal. As for the agreement to consolidate the Conference of Presidents as a useful tool, we logically assume a commitment to information and transparency. Whenever there is a meeting of the Conference of Presidents — which under the agreement will be annual — the President of the European Union will have to attend automatically to ascertain the scope and content of the Conference. And when a follow-up committee meeting is held to assess the state of the agreements — which they know must be semi-annual — the Vice-President of the Board will also appear in the House to keep the groups of progress being recorded. To these three commitments I can add an additional commitment from the People's Group in relation to the agreement on gender violence, since this afternoon we will be able to discuss an amendment that we tabled to the BNG motion in this regard, a proposal to be able to raise a single and joint position of all the groups of the House to the meeting of the Senate's General Commission of Autonomous Communities which agreed to convene after the Conference of Presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, finally, so that the first step that this Conference of Presidents is not the last one, on our part there will always be, firstly, a vigilant and demanding attitude for the agreements reached to be fulfilled, and, secondly, a negotiating will with the Central Government, with the rest of the autonomous communities, and, of course, with the groups of this House to seek out the best for Galicia, which is to find the best for the Greeks and the Greeks, who are the ones we owe. Thank you very much for your attention. I'll be at your disposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. We turn around the parliamentary groups. We start with the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and you have the floor of Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President of Parliament. President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia, first of all, I believe it is good that there is finally a government presence. I also believe it is good that this first appearance is the President and that he has accepted a request from the opposition. I think this is an anecdote for now. What we would like, from the BNG Parliamentary Group, is that we have introduced a new practice in this Galician Parliament, and that not only the President but also counsellors and advisors have come to the opposition's request. I'm not saying it always has to be at the request of the opposition, but it's not exceptional. Because I think that would be a symptom of respect for Parliament, that we are representatives of the people, and therefore one of respect for the Greeks and the Greeks and a symptom of democratic health, which I believe this Parliament misses a lot. We also believe, Mr President, that it would be normal for us to know in advance what position the German Government will defend on behalf of the country. I think it would be more logical if the country's issues had been realized before, and I hadn't just come here to realize the facts we've had right now, where the German Government didn't know or know exactly what the proposals were, which were really their contributions to that conference of presidents. And the truth is, it's all pretty opaque. We would like to start by telling you, Mr President, that we believe this Conference of Autonomous Presidents was really a bluff. And it was a bluff because you yourself had to recognize that those who marked the political path weren't present, were absent. Who has been marking the political agenda of the State was precisely the presidents of the nations that exist in the Spanish State who exercise as such and who mark a path of their own for the benefit of their peoples, of being able to move forward and of being able to make progress. Therefore, we believe that, more than in an institutional act, at that conference we are like a second part of those bipartisan agreements between the People's Party and the Socialist Party within the framework of this operation that have just been launched in this legislation that we can call "operation to save the regime and the status quo of 78." And many of the proposals that you have reported to us about are a new re-centralisation in areas such as public procurement, such as the fight against gender-based violence or in relation to education. And we — I have to tell you clearly — do not believe that the solution to our country's problems comes from going to conferences to the Senate, but rather, we believe that, as Greeks and Greeks, it has to do with how we strengthen a real self-government that gives us alternatives and allows us to improve the quality of life of our people. And also, with all sincerity, what we have to move you, Mr. Feijóo, is that we don't really know, we don't really see, which were the specific points in which Galicia won at this conference of presidents. And what we want is for you to reconsider a strategy of submission, a strategy of subordination, to the interests of the People's Party in Madrid which, in practice, is leading us to political irrelevance as a country and which is, in addition, undermining the possibilities that we can really move forward as a quality of life, well-being, progress and modernization in our country. And see if this is so until yesterday we could read in a well-known newspaper in our country some reflections that attributed to you, Mr. Feijóo. And in that reflection that was made in that paper -- in that quote some words that you spoke out of a microphone -- what you seemed to be there to recognize is that the conference had not come out of nothing concrete; in a way, this referred to it today with its intervention. But what we also pointed out was that everything was conditional on a future appointment between Rajoy and Puigdemont; that is, a quote between the Government of the State and the President of Catalonia, where a debate was going to take place about what exit was going to be given and what proposal was going to be given to the sovereignist process, and that even the whole debate of funding would be conditional on whether Catalonia finally recognized or not a fiscal pact similar to the Basque concert. And that's why, Mr. Feijóo, we think your strategy is being futile in defending the interests of our country and we want to know if you're willing to change something. Because, of course, we don't think Galicia has to be a spectator, we think Galicia has to have its own initiative and its own political path. And, of course, what we encourage — and it will count on the Galego Nationalist Block in that work — is that it really prioritizes Galicia's defence of interests, even if that is uncomfortable to Mr Rajoy and to some of the great interests or economic powers. Because really, Mr. Feijóo, Galicia hasn't been good to you in the past by diluting in coffee for everyone and it won't work out for us in the future if we follow that same strategy, which is what you're following. [[Applause]] And we want to tell you that it would be important for you to have a change in strategy and a change in your Greek agenda. And for there to be a Welsh agenda in the state, there has to be a bilateral relationship. Why is it going to be wrong to negotiate our country's interests directly? Was that strategy wrong with the Basques and the Catalans? No, quite the contrary, Mr. Feijóo, they have greatly improved their positions. And what is clear is that for demographic changes to improve our situation from the point of view of public services and job creation, we have to move frames and we have to support real self-government for our country. We want to make three proposals for that Welsh agenda that is urgent. The first, indeed, the financing model. We believe that Galicia must be in the debate on financing in its own voice; what we cannot remain subordinate to the interests of others, Mr Feijóo. And in that sense, what we see is: how will we get better?, with the strategy that was followed by you so far that it has cost us a lot of money in funding or actually making a country bet, relying on the potentials we have and not staying behind on the train that others are going to catch? That is why we believe that Galicia has to aspire to everything, that we cannot stay on the train of the regions while the nations in the state are moving forward and that we should defend, Mr Feijóo, a model of concert or fiscal pact — you call it as you wish — because this would really improve the position of the country. You're supporting a theory from which there's no evidence to corroborate it. Because, if we analyze the economic relationship between Galicia and the State in terms of the collection of the State in our country, the fact is that the State is making cash in Galicia. And we put very clear data on the table that is based on the official figures of the Ministry of Business. For example: 2014 — last liquidated fiscal year — Galicia contributed EUR 11.131 million to the State; the State, in relation to transfers, only sent us EUR 7.043 million. If we had a concert system like the Basques have, and based on it -- well, that's very difficult when you don't listen -- and taking the same criteria that are currently calculated at the Basque Cup, what Galicia would have to provide to the state would be 630 million euros. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if you realize, Mr. Feijóo, that we're losing 3,500 million euros. Do you prefer: a system with which we still lose 3,500 million euros or have more resources to fund health, education, dependence and really be able to hold us accountable for our future and have tools to enable us to move forward? We therefore propose to them a pact of country — both to you, Mr Feijóo, and to the Socialist Party and to the Marea — so that we really trust the possibilities of the country. Because an economic concert is the alternative to those nations that have a political will to be and to live together in a multinational state. The second issue that concerns us — I have very little time — has to do with precisely ending the situation of energy policy and energy poverty. With the headlines with which we have lunch today, you say here that at the Conference of Presidents they put a solution to the problem of energy poverty, it seems like a joke of bad taste that must be really feeling bitter to people who can't even put on the heat these days for the increases in the price of light. [[Applause]] But let this happen in a country like Galicia, which we are surpluses in the production of electricity, this is about a political decision. We believe that the defence of a Welsh electric tariff, which means a reduction in the prices of the tariffs, a compensation to our country for the impact of energy production, would be key to a fundamental change in the economic theme but also to improve the living conditions of the Greeks and the Greeks and to promote access. This demand, Mr. Feijóo, you didn't put it on the table and would have a greater economic impact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u7	...that any tax rebate you can set in motion. And finally, for us too, it would be important that we regain a Greek financial system to drive our country's development. We, Mr. Feijóo, believe that the dismantling of the boxes was the greatest collective scam that has been done to our country. And we have made it clear that there are political responsibilities and that there are responsibilities of the former directors. And today I also wanted to tell you, Mr. Feijóo, that the dramatic thing is that ex-directors don't have to be in jail for a few days; the dramatic thing is that they've spoiled our boxes, the dramatic thing was the scam for the preference, the dramatic thing is that they're going on with scams like those of the solo clauses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u9	...and the dramatic thing is that the liquidation of the Greek financial system had been consolidated here and that, above all, we had to pay for selling Novagalicia Banco. We, Mr. Feijóo, believe that you have direct responsibilities in all this, and if so, and if you think that you are clean of all sin, the normal thing would be that you had a commission of investigation that you had investigated. But it would also be logical that we had...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u11	...a country pact to denounce...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u13	...the sale of Novagalicia Banco and, most importantly, a strategy that allows us to recover...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u15	...a Welsh public bank and put an end to the policy of our savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u17	Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Feijóo, I really have to thank you for your presence. It seems to us that this must be a normal procedure as it has been so far. We also understood that it was, at least, not active, or reluctant, to appear and that it had to be the opposition groups who so requested, because, in the end, if we wanted to summarize the outcome of the conference very quickly, we would have to say something like this: a lot of noise and a few walnuts, or something similar. And the truth is, from here on, we have to do some precision, in this and other intervention, we have little time, and some things we're going to leave for the replica. This conference is a palliative that goes in the right direction and that we would like it to be customary until we can modify the institutional architecture and, through the Senate, have a permanent forum with decision-making capacity where autonomous communities can discuss, between them and the state, to solve these things. Because most of the issues that you have moved us — and that we share the need to speak about them and speak from the perspective of the autonomous communities — should be part of the normal, normal and daily functioning of our state, which is a decentralized, federal, complex state, composed of different administrations, and should have a permanent forum to discuss how to put so many things together and how to resolve the differences when there are them. Many of the measures, for example in relation to the regulation, which you emphasize to us, are good for us. But you know as I do that in article 4.2 of the current Regulation it was envisaged that the Conference of Presidents should meet every year. That was already, and yet Mr. Rajoy was fifty months away from the conference. I could remind you of your words of the year 2007 — I have little time — and in your words of the year 2007 what you said was that it was totally unacceptable that in matters of transcendence to the autonomous communities Mr Zapatero had taken some 30 months to gather the Conference. [[Applause]] Now fifty has passed and our censorship had to be something bigger. It is also true that from the perspective of Galicia some things are missing. Very quickly: there is no reference to infrastructures and to the question of AVE, which is central to our community; there is no reference to pending transfers and thus to complete all autonomic competences from the perspective of competence; there is no reference to the Interterritorial Compensation Fund. All these things are missing and some other things I can't point out because we're running out of time. High expectations, lean results. You said it at the end and we'll agree there. There's a playing field -- I said it in the press round that I valued at the Conference -- the presidents of autonomy and the Government of Spain agreed to play a league, and it's okay, the subjects they're going to talk about are right, but we're missing the results, and that's what we're going to do. In Galicia you now call us to a pact, to several covenants, it is fine, but — taking up your words — the Conference of Presidents must be prepared in advance, there must be prior documents. Well, something like this, we should do in Galicia, and you didn't call us or send us any previous documents. There's no statement of Government intentions saying, "that's what's acceptable," "here's Galicia's position, here's Galicia's position, these are the results we aspire to get." There's nothing about this. This would also be a convenient practice to improve, say, our negotiating position at these conferences and to establish a consensus. In relation to self-financing, which is the central theme, then I'll talk about the other things. I understand your reluctance to sound the bells after the president's conference. Rajoy's fifty months away from convening the conference, and when he got there -- I followed his final statement -- what I understood was, "There's no more resources, the box is empty, you decide what you want, but I can't give you a euro anymore." And this is a bad starting point for negotiating autonomous funding, a bad starting point. If there is a different position, and Rajoy at the internal level of the conference has committed himself to something else, it would be good to know, because we're going to have to operate from that figure. Autonomic funding first decides a global amount and then its distribution. In so many funding models of the year 2009, the Government of Spain then put something on the table as well as 11,600 million additional to be distributed in three years. What would it be now, Mr. Feijóo, I ask you directly, the figure that would be convenient for you? What would it be convenient to start talking?, how much should you put on the table Mr. Rajoy's Government to bridge the vertical imbalance between the autonomous communities and the state? In order to conveniently strengthen health, education, social services, all those services that you have said — and I agree — which are essentials and which must be well funded from the State, what is the figure? Tell us what the figure is, because from there we can start to understand a little better the results of the conference. Dependency, a sub-commission is created, perfect!, seems good to us, but what is the commitment of the Government of Spain to this specific issue? His general director-general illustrated us the other day, in an interview, telling us that the autonomous community contributed 78% and the state 22%. If we want to balance contributions, as is the law, how much more should the Government of Spain provide? It would be nice to know if there was any commitment from Mr. Rajoy in this direction to the whole, and then to know how it is divided between the autonomous communities. A reasonable figure would be 2,000 million, and of these 2,000 million we could aspire to capture, let's say, 7 or 8%, around 150 million euros additional to Galicia, and therefore solve the problems of non-treatment of those dependents who have the right and activate the demands that today accumulate in the offices of San Caetano. It would be good, too, to do it for health. A detailed study is fine. It was also done by 2009. There was a specific subcommittee of health within the framework of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, not exactly at the Conference of Presidents, but within the framework... and there were additional contributions, even a conference of presidents expressly devoted to this subject, with additional contributions. But today, the financing model takes on the importance of health, it'd put it in 38%, and weighs aging, and weighs dispersal; that's good to say, but if you really want to discuss these issues, you have to say how much we want the most. How much should you weigh your health, or 40 or 45%? What's your proposal? Because it already weighs 38%. How much should you weigh the dispersal? More than he thinks today, because he's already doing it. Because that's the important thing, the other thing is trying to sell us something that exists today and which, therefore, doesn't mean anything more. As far as the expert committee is concerned, well, it may seem to me a little bit of an operational model, but I accept it, I think. I think a proposal for each autonomous community ends up forming an overly numerous commission, but nothing happens. That's the model the presidents agreed on. In the case of Galicia, I said the other day, in the press round, that it seemed convenient for us to agree with the various parliamentary groups with the Government to appoint an expert who represented us all and who defended Galicia's positions. That's why I like your proposal. We are prepared to make that consensus effort, but, I say, we are also interested in meeting the criteria. We're going to have a chance in this crowd to keep discussing these things -- because there's an interpellation that I'm going to do to the Fedanda Councillor -- and the criteria are also very important, and the objectives. And then they're going to have to tell us, how much additional resources would be reasonable for Galicia from the financing model? Do you plan on overcoming per capita funding over what is today? —that with the data of 2014 Galicia is 110% of the average of the autonomous communities of the common regime, or, are you determined to stay where they are? These are the relevant issues. How much money does Galicia demand to the system?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u19	That's an answer that would be convenient to make. I have no more time, I will leave for the second part the necessary challenge to the education pact, to the gender violence and to the other pacts that you have proposed to us, which will, I say, have a treatment in my second intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u20	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. We appreciate Mr. Núñez's presence here in the House, but we would have been grateful to know before he went. We wanted to know what was going to the Conference of Presidents of the Autonomous Communities. We wanted to know what it was. What was it?, what did you talk about?, what was left?, what was in your wallet? We didn't know what his plan was before he left. He did not communicate it to Parliament either — he could have made an appearance, as he does now, dragged, that is yes, by the other groups of the House — neither did he, nor did he, in any press rounds, nor, of course, the appeals to dialogue, which were made, had any connection to talking to parliamentary groups, of course not to En Marea. If we know, of course, that the previous system didn't like it. He said it, he just said it here again, here in the gallery, that he didn't like it. Well, what didn't he like? We didn't just know it was what he didn't like, nor did we just know the system that now perpetuates the status quo that he doesn't like. And we need to know, because then, when you accept the position imposed on you from Madrid, we need to know what your concessions were for that model that you didn't like and in the name of what happened through all this. You appealed to a deal with all of us, but that agreement did not exist, to whom did you speak to seek that agreement? Now come back here, go up to the rostrum, and talk about the deal again, what kind of agreement do you mean?, with whom?, what do we have?, to tell us the three words: a stable system? Man, yes!, we also want a stable system. Apart from that, little more. Sustainable? Yes, a sustainable system!, so do we. And we'll talk now, too, about what you understand by progressiveity. But we could even agree on it, but it's just as little as anything. So you were at the meeting the other day, and we didn't know you were in the wallet. What was it?, what political intention was it?, what intention was it to finance the other day?, what did you put on the table? You were very happy because you were admitted to all of your political funding positions. What were those positions? Were they so important and so closed to get out of that meeting already satisfied? In our opinion, by all you said in the House, which is where we have to say things, I didn't take anything, I carried the empty wallet, I weighed very little, so it was very easy to get happy. The current funding system does not satisfy you, nor does it satisfy us. And it doesn't satisfy us because it doesn't solve Galicia's problems. And any other financing system that is similar to the current one, no matter how much it improves certain frameworks, it doesn't satisfy us, because it treats us as being a province, with administrative autonomy, but not with political autonomy to make their own economic policies. The Conference of Presidents that discussed, what did you discuss, what position did you take, what did you agree with, what did you not agree with?, did you argue with anyone?, did you have any point of encounter with the rest of the attendees, not with the dissidents? That, by the way, not going is also supposed to mark a political position. And you, within what you've been, what have you done, started something in relation to the starting position that the Central Government formulated?, have you achieved something for our country other than what they offered you or did you agree to accept what they offered you, or did you not have a plan? And, therefore, if you have no plan anything is good, because no port is good for those who do not have a definite course. Well, we have a clue, yes, our lead is that he was very pleased with the Conference of Presidents. Therefore, we must deduce two things: first, that he did not take the preposition and that he was worth everything he spoke there; and second, that he liked. He liked it because it was the only political slogan that had the position announced there by the Central Government. The corollary, the corollary of that is clear: the renunciation of the position of the country, which was the renunciation it made, also in relation to the AP-9; it was the resignation it made, also in relation to the deadlines for the completion of the AVE, and it is the waiver it makes, also, of the country and of the defence of the interests of Galicia with the financing system. This is the announcement of a failure. In a year, when you have to come here, you'll come and tell us that it's a system that's unsatisfactory to you, just like the previous one. And you'll say I'm dissatisfied with you because you've not been able to value the political position of our country. Because you believe, and if you like it and if you accept it in the name of Spain's general interest, it will be because you believe in a shrinking Galicia. A tiny Galician way of conforming to a status quo when establishing a financing system that gives good to the situation in our country. We're going to improve the criteria of dispersion and population, and that of the aging population; we have an aging population; we need more resources for this patient, so that he has a sweet death, a good euthanasia. We do not want resources for a terminal patient, we want to heal, we want to solve Galician problems, we want to make our own economic policies, which allow us to reverse the aging situation, which enables us to reverse the situation of rural depopulation, which enables us to reverse the situation of economic implosion that has not only the coastline, but, and more especially, the inner part of our country. We want to do all this, but with your system it's impossible, it's impossible because it's based on our country's status quo, and they accept and give a tiny country by the way. That's why we're not worth your funding frameworks, and we can't accept the system, nor what you took empty in your wallet or what you got to be successful — success was easy because it didn't take anything — as a result of the Conference of Presidents. We do not accept Galicia at all, we do not accept the problems, we want to solve the problems and we want political capacity for our country. Political capacity: we are not a province, we are not a municipality, we do not accept to be an administrative decentralization. If we have autonomy, we need political capacity, and political capacity means economic capacity to make our own economic policies; not only to provide services, but also to reverse economic, social situations, and of course that will result in the outcome: to be able to reverse adverse demographic situations. Demography is not a problem, it's a symptom. It's a symptom of political inaction, of an unfair financing system, of a political system that doesn't allow us to make active economic and political policies that allow us to reverse the demographic situation we are in today. And you agree -- you said here -- with sharing what is there, he said at the end of the Conference of Presidents, that he was content with sharing what is there. We do not agree with sharing what is available, we believe that the State has to give in to the financial capacity it has at the moment, right now, to have more money on the table so that we can finance ourselves, in order to be able — through a sufficient amount of resources — to make different economic policies, which will enable us to solve the problems of this country. Something that doesn't seem to interest you too much. We have already warned you that in relation to the system that is being formulated above the table, firstly, for us it is absolutely insufficient, because it does not allow us, firstly, to recover the level of social investment that we had, for example, six or eight years ago. That is, if we now take as a reference the previous year, last year, for the new financing system, to fund public services, since you cut back 25% on social investment, we will have to make sure that from there the statu quo would consolidate that during the next vigil of the next financing model. Is that normal? It's not normal for us, because it's not normal for the situation we lived in the past few years, nor are we willing to accept it. The number of schools, the number of educational centers, the number of health centers... If you've been closing all kinds of centers over these years, and now you're going to take as a reference those that are already closed for the new funding system. Every year that the smaller population, we're going to have less resources, we already have less resources, of course! That's the inadequacy of your system: inability to make economic politics. But I also warn you that these current parameters are not going to be accepted by anyone at the Conference of Presidents. If you don't put more money on the table, you won't be able to make a political system, you won't be able to make a financing system. And, therefore, you, who are now satisfied initially, will not be able to satisfy yourself at the end. Political proposals by En Marea, of course. First of all, you — we depart — from the constitutional legal-political status that Galicia has, the recognition of Galicia's national character; that we have the character of historical nationality is recognized in the Constitution itself, we are not a region, which is clear, we are not a region. We are a historic nationality recognized in the Constitution itself. You don't have to leave the status quo legal-constitutional to demand treatment according to Galician national character. So, and according to the principle of equality itself, so unfair is to treat different situations the same way as to treat different situations the same way. So you exaggerate treatment according to Galician national character. We do not want to play in the second division of self-financing, we do not want to play as if we had only, exclusively, administrative autonomy; we have political autonomy, we have political capacity and we want to exercise it also in the economy, and therefore we want a different financing system, we want our own treatment, according to our national system and our national character, we want a model of own financing. [[Applause]] If it matches other autonomous communities, it looks good, and if it doesn't, it doesn't matter. It's not that we have to be all equal or all different, it's not a problem of symmetry, there's no constitutional problem associated with symmetry or asymmetry of funding systems. So, if there's no constitutional problem, why are you going to make a problem when there's no constitutional problem? If you don't cancel, he'll put them on Montoro, you won't put them on. We want sufficient resources to provide services, we agree, but that for us is only part of the problem of the financing system. And, of course, we want to quantify it. Of course, for us simply that position — which we shared in theory — meant the need to improve the financing system by EUR 2,650 million to recover the capacity we had to lend and offer social investment as we were only eight years ago. There is a start error: from which you have to take account of what there is, everything there is, and only what there is. Don't! The State can share its capacity and financial power, it can do it, we demand it to do it. We have political autonomy, we demand that. We're not an administrative autonomy, we're not a council, we're not a province. We demand according to our constitutional characterization of historical nationality. We want to be able to make our own economic policies and reverse the situation of our country's problems. We want to solve our country's problems, and this translates into two issues: resource adequacy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u23	...and I'm going to end it—and the fiscal power itself. We want a system — how much they want — we want a system that we qualify as a federal cut, based on two axes: fiscal sovereignty, which provides us with sufficient resources and own fiscal power, based on cooperation and not on competition between political subjects at the state level, just as happens at the level of Europe. We say this because, for example, with regard to Ireland, they are also affected by this situation. A system of cooperation that marks rules of play, which allows us to have all the subjects that we play within the framework of the State a minimum income solo. We don't play the neoliberal key to lowering taxes, lowering revenues and then not being able to make social and public policies. We want a guaranteed minimum income that will enable us to redistribute income, wealth, to make our own social and economic policies, to reverse the situation of demographic, social, political and economic implosion in our country, and hence to flourish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u25	Yes, I'm going to finish. Finally, a fiscal model as a result of our national character; a federal model of resource adequacy, with regulatory capacity at the fiscal level; cooperative, ensuring minimum incomes and enabling us to make our own economic policies. Everything else is toast to the sun. The appointment of experts... It's not an expert problem. There are many experts, but they are experts in different economic models, what we must first agree on at the political level is what kind of financing system we want, and from there we design the experts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u27	And the demographic problem, demography is a symptom of Galicia that you believe in and that we don't believe in. We believe in our country, we believe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u28	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u29	...in the national character of Galicia and therefore we believe that we deserve a financing system that will enable us to solve the problems of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u30	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Villares. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. We would like to congratulate the President of the Board, firstly, on his presence and the real fact that he is the first autonomous president to appear — from all the autonomous presidents — in his parliamentary chamber to explain the treaty at the Conference of Presidents, and precisely coincides with the presence of the vice president in the Senate. [[Applause]] It is curious that they say that the President comes little when he is the president of the history of the Autonomic Parliament who most often answers questions from this House, three for the full — except for the Rules of Procedure — and I think it is not so exceptional for the Government to present the opposition's request. In the past there were 87 times the members of the Government, and 37 of them were requests from the opposition. So almost half of the times the Government comes in, it did it coincide with requests from the opposition itself. Presidents' Conference, two good news: the first is that it has advanced in the construction of the autonomous state, and the second is that the main objectives that Galicia had in the initial planning of the conference have been achieved. So, I think we're faced with a good news. First of all, he said he advanced in the construction of the autonomous state. It is true that federal systems, including the state of autonomy, have two aspects. The first is the differential aspects, the different preferences of citizens living in each territory. These specificities are materialized in autonomous legislation, and this leads to a certain competitiveness which, from an institutional point of view, is good for comparing management models and that communities can, in turn, improve their forms of management, but also have an aspect which is the cooperative, which is to coordinate — for the common good, to achieve common objectives — the work of different administrations. In this respect, the Conference of Presidents is essential, because Spain is the most decentralized country — with the exception of Switzerland — of all Europe, and has made a great deal of progress in the competitive aspects: we have legislative capacity, which does not have the Länder; we have fiscal capacity, 50% of the IRPF, IVE, tax yielded, therefore something that envys Austria; Bavaria has been asking for this type of competence for a long time. And there has been less progress in the cooperative aspects of the autonomic system. First of all, in the legislative field, with the ever postponed reform of the Senate, which is not the territorial representation chamber of article 69 of the Constitution, and in the field of collaboration between executives, because this is a body of collaboration between governments, therefore, at the executive level, where they act and then explain, and do not come to say that what they are going to do is a coordinating body of executive tasks; for it said that in the executive field, the operation of the Conference of Presidents has always been hampered. And let us remember that it was in this House, in the debate of the state of autonomy of 1992, when this proposal was made by President Fraga of the People's Parliamentary Group; it was reiterated in 1994; it was taken to the General Committee of the Autonomous Communities of the Senate in March 1997; it was reiterated in 2004; the People's Party, through the Minister Posada, tried to enter the Law on Public Administrations during his term of office — exactly in 2003, if I do not recall — and was frustrated by the opposition, at that moment headed by the socialists, and, above all, by the nationalists. Well, the fact is that state legislation is finally incorporated into the reform that the People's Party of Law 40/2015, the legal regime of the public sector, which in article 146 states that the Conference of Presidents is the first body of State cooperation, and hence the sectoral conferences are coordinated. At the same time, it is added that sectoral conferences can be convened, rather than before, by the law of 1992, on the sole initiative of the Government, at the initiative of a third of the autonomous communities. If they are also maintained for common matters, only between the Autonomous Community and the State, the bilateral committees, which join the Joint Transfers Commission, close the fundamental body which has been able to promote cooperation at the executive level. There's certainly the legislative's pending. And the 6th Conference of Presidents actually had very good results. First, it was said here that there was a lot of noise and little walnuts. Well, the 6th Conference of Presidents was the walnut that most nuts gave, there were 11 agreements. The one you've had the most backward must go back to 2009, which had four agreements. And that of 2004 and 2007, 3 agreements. So it's true that the agreements are what they are, but it's also true that there was 11, that is, much more than twice as long as there were more agreements at a president's conference. And, of course, the Conference of Presidents is a conference that serves to cooperate. It was said here that it serves, they asked the president what it was to start. To boot is to extract with root violence, and if we're talking about a body of cooperation, I think we have to go to collaborate, to cooperate, to dialogue and to reach agreements. Of course, going to a conference of presidents to start anything, because it's not the right thing to do. For that, of course, it's better not to go, which is what the two most nationalistic presidents in the autonomous communities have done. Because we must remember that, as a recently stated professor of constitutional law: "Independenceists abhor multilateral mechanisms of cooperation between autonomys such as vampires at ease." And it is certainly not understood from a nationalistic logic which is multilateral cooperation and which is even understood as an attempt to recentralise, when it is just the opposite. Precisely, it's not centralized when one, with its own competences, what it does is to deal with how it exercises these powers to achieve common objectives. Finally, we believe it is good news, which is reinforced by the second positive aspect, which is the high degree of agreements reached. 3 of an institutional nature: what reaches the conference itself; what reaches the participation of the autonomous communities in the formation of the state will in the European Union, strengthening the Committee on EU-related Affairs, coordinating the sectors with regard to Spain's participation in the European Union; and the third, the mentioned on self-financing. Another agreement on employment, to enhance and improve information, active policies and, therefore, the possibility of attaining work, and boosting dual vocational training, which reinforces the possibility of improving regulatory regulations in order to facilitate business movement in the territory and improve efficiency. And two public service agreements: civil protection, digital administration and strengthening of public services, seeking to extract the replacement rate to give stability and sustainability to public services. And five out of eleven are social affairs. In education, participate in the reform of the education pact at the state level through the Senate; set up the social card in collaboration with the third sector; encourage vulnerable consumers of electricity by coordinating with companies between administrations; against gender violence, receiving contributions in the Senate, too, for a state policy against gender violence; and demography, to seek not only a national strategy, but to bring the issue to the European Union. The balance sheet is promising in the institutional sphere of public services, employment and also in the social field, and Galicia has achieved its objectives. The first with demographics, of course, putting it at the forefront of national politics. And the second in relation to the system of self-financing. The agreement on autonomous financing is called "the sustainability of the state of well-being and self-financing". So first, the priority is to improve self-financing in order to maintain the welfare state, which is to recognize that the welfare state is supported by autonomous communities. And the indissoluble union between sustainability and self-financing and the welfare state. And it's done with principles that since Galicia, and the experts say so, are the most important. We have achieved three achievements in that agreement on financing. First, the method, the multilaterality. That it didn't happen as it happened in 2009, that Galicia had twenty-four hours of the autonomic financing agreement on the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council the document that had to take either you or you, or paid the 2,500 million of the negative liquidations inherited from the previous Government. Secondly, because the principle of solidarity is maintained and the principle of effective cost is actually introduced according to the provision of the service in each autonomous community. We are not talking about per capita financing, nor are we talking — as did the nationalists and as introduced in the past reform — about the principle of ordinality. Each community receives what it needs to give a level of public service provision and does not rework that after that so that some who were down pass up and others who are left over pass down. We have also achieved a specific treatment for health, which accounts for 40% of the cost of providing services, which means that differential costs will be treated, such as aging or even dispersal, and also introduces dependence to ensure their sustainability with contributions from the state. If we add that fiscal co-responsibility is maintained and that local funding is addressed or reformed, I believe that these are important agreements. I believe, Mr. Leicega, that it is a mistake to ask for figures as an objective in this kind of negotiations. What is needed is to achieve good mechanisms to ensure that public services are sustainable in future according to a number of principles of efficiency and effectiveness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u32	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u33	I understand that politically the best is to say that if you earn very little, if you come with one billion more, two billion less, but the important thing is the mechanisms. To that end, the president offered consensus to an expert and we, of course, praised and applauded this predisposition, as well as incorporating the opposition groups into the Demographic Observatory, the commitment to bring regular information from the preparatory work and the follow-up of the Conference of Presidents and, of course, also the agreement that we can materialize this afternoon in terms of gender violence. Congratulations, ultimately, President or Vice-President, who has contributed with his preparatory work, to wish these agreements to be carried out, animal to push them and congratulate him because he has defended the general interest and, in particular, the general interest of all citizens of Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u34	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica by the President of the Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful for the positive assessment of the appearance, although it is good to appear, so I see it is also wrong. In any case, I'll keep the first part that's right to attend. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not anecdote, it is simply to realize what we have agreed on by the presidents of the Central Government. I do not believe, therefore, that every time the President of the Central Government and the presidents of the Autonomics meet is an anecdote, unless we have no consideration for the presidents of the Autonomics that we meet and only the BNG has consideration for the presidents of the Autonomics that were not. I suppose, Your Honor, that will not be so; I suppose it will not be so, Your Honor, because in that case you would be confused with Parliament. [[Applause]] You may be in the Euskadi Parliament or the Catalonian Parliament, but this is Galicia, Your Honor, and the Galician Parliament is speaking of Galicia. If you want to talk about what you didn't, there you are, it makes you feel like you'd rather the president of the board hadn't been. I suppose you can clarify this to the House and all the Greeks in your replica. But, Your Honor, as long as I am the president elected by this House, I will fulfil my constitutional and statutory obligations. He says we don't know exactly what we went to. I tried to explain it for 40 minutes. You don't know what the board's proposals are either. For if after forty minutes they didn't listen to what the Board's proposals are, I'm not only concerned that they didn't pay attention to these forty minutes, but that they didn't pay attention from the beginning of the legislation we saw here and -- add -- what we saw in the previous, and the previous. Your Honor, we have been talking for a long time about the impact of health on the financing of autonomous communities. We have been talking for a long time about the demographic problem, not only of Galicia but of eight autonomous communities, which, by the way, constitute a Conference of Autonomous Communities, eight, of all the political signs that we have brought our report to the Committee on Regions of the European Union. Your Honor, saying that we don't know exactly what the Board's proposals are when what we're considering is that they are financed on the basis of the actual cost of public services actually executed is simply not to listen to or even to what we're talking about today or what we've been talking about in the country for a long time. Your Honor, I think, on the other hand, to criticize because I didn't show up before, to criticize because I'm coming now and saying that the conference is a bluff is a big misunderstanding. Because if you want me to come in here to explain a bluff, Your Honor, I don't know why you're asking me to show up. If I should show up before the bluff, I don't know exactly what to tell them. Finally, I believe that the spokesperson for the House's majority parliamentary group has put into practice the content and scope of the Conferences of Presidents. Mrs Pontón, you say that perhaps we have been to the Senate the presidents of the autonomous communities — all except two — to join the 78 democratic regime. Mrs. Pontón, the Spanish Constitution is marked by Spanish, and consequently you and I are firm advocates of strict compliance with it. You may want to change it, and I don't feel bad, I'd like to know with what scope and content. What surprises me, Mrs. Pontón, is that when you went to the Conference of Presidents, it wasn't a bluff. Yes, Your Honor, the Bipartite; laugh at the Bipartite, Your Honor, you shouldn't. The Bipartite attended the Conference of Presidents in September 2005 and January 2007. When the Bipartite went to the Conference of Presidents it wasn't a bluff, although no agreement had been reached, and when the People's Parliamentary Group and the Galician Union went and we adopted eleven is a bluff. Mrs. Pontón, you, the BNG, went to the Conference of Presidents in the Bipartisan Government of Galicia. That's history, and that's really what happened. [[Applause]] You say there must be bilateral relations. I agree, and that's why I'm surprised that the intelligent spokesman of the Socialist Party tells me I didn't talk about AVE; that's a bilateral relationship. Yes, of course, indeed. [[Murmurs.]] Or I didn't talk about transfers; that's a bilateral relationship. We are not going to talk at the Conference of Presidents about only a President, we are going to talk about what is affecting us all. Bilateral relations are going to keep them. If next week I'm going to have three meetings with three ministers of the Government of Spain, it's a bilateral relationship. If since I've taken possession, I've been meeting with several ministers of the Government of Spain, of course, working on bilateral relations. That is my point, Your Honor, to account for Galicia's problems in the field of bilaterality. But when it comes to sharing everyone's money — which I see is someone who feels bad — that's a multilateral relationship. Your Honor, we are all confused except Mrs. Pontón. All Galicia is confused, Your Honor. All the experts, all those who study the financing negotiations, all the health economists, all those who have been working a long time in the autonomic state, are confused, because what we have to do is a system of coupons, of concert, between Galicia and the central government. All those confused, Your Honor, the whole House confused except six Members and Members of the BNG. You'll understand that tomorrow we'll have an opportunity for you to explain to me the accounts, which I hope are not stories, but accounts. The accounts that you say Galicia is over-income and that we even had to transfer to the Government of Spain 600 million euros. I say no, that it is the Government of Spain that has to transfer to this Autonomous Community a lot of millions of euros, because we are not going to transfer a potato, which is clear on this matter, Your Honor, because your quota system is the same as your own electricity tariff system. Your Honor, when you meet with the rest of Spain's nationalists, why don't you tell them this, don't you realize that the rest of the autonomous communities would have to pay more for the electricity tariff and we less, don't you tell them? I'm sure not, Your Honor. I don't mean it because they wouldn't take it seriously, and you like to talk seriously, except in exceptional moments where it seems like you don't mean it. Look, Your Honor, I come here to speak as president of the Greeks, not as a party militant. You come here as a nationalist, but sometimes nationalism is not useful to the country. The nationalist approaches of the 21st century interest me, the nationalist approaches of the 19th century do not interest me. That's why, Mrs. Pontón, I am not considering surprising proposals in the current state of the matter. Your Honor, let me tell you that I should propose at the Conference of Presidents the recovery of the Greek financial system. I suppose, Your Honor, that's also a proposal, at least, pictorial by your group. Look, Your Honor, is it that you don't remember how the government that won as a result of the elections in 2009 left us? You were there, you brought this Parliament, along with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, an amendment of the law to extend the mandate of the directors of the boxes. You were in that government and you said yes from your parliamentary group, and now you ask me for responsibility on the boxes. With pleasure, Your Honor, with pleasure. You, Your Honor, have left us some boxes in a precarious position. Now, there's still a financial entity in Galicia, Garcia Barbon's headquarters and Canton's headquarters have people working and there's 5,000 families in that financial entity. When you left us the boxes they knew very well how they left them, although sometimes I think they didn't, because they weren't even aware of the lack of information and loyalty of the Government of Spain and the Central Bank to the Council of Galicia. Mr. Leicega, thank you for being in favor of your presence. Yes, I am surprised, just like my colleague Mr Puy, that is a lot of noise and a few walnuts. Home! Your Honor, with all due respect, disagreed with those who attended the conference of your party. Allow me, simply, to read some of the Socialist presidents' considerations: Extract from the press round of the President of Asturias: "Today we can say that the demographic issue, which was already a state problem, has now been assumed as a state problem." García Paje, President of Castela-A Mancha: "We have achieved that for the first time" — Mr Leiceaga, I insist — "we have achieved that for the first time" — President of Castela-A Mancha, Socialist Party — "the evaluation of health, education and social services is going to be done on the actual cost. For the first time." — Mr Paje. — "It is of paramount importance. We will have to build on the basis of what is costing public services equally provided throughout the territory." Socialist Workers Party Spanish, Castilla-La Mancha. He also celebrated that there will be no new funding system unless there is a very high consensus among all of us, which highlighted that it is a way of discarding bilaterality. President of Castile-A Mancha, Socialist Workers' Party Spanish. And my friend, President of Stremadura, said: "From the beginning we thought that it would go well, we prepared it, we exchanged papers and, until today, in more than half of the agreements, we have introduced issues, discussed and debated to approve. As a result, the conference went very well." Mr. Leicega, or the socialist presidents who attended the Conference of Presidents are not right, or you are in a great mistake. Mr. Leicega, training and information to you are not missing, but I am surprised to say that Mr. Rajoy did not convene a Conference of Presidents in fifty months. Yes, Your Honor, Mr. Rajoy — and I was there — called a Conference of Presidents in 2012. Yes, Your Honor, October 2012. I was there, you know what we agreed on, Mr. Leicega? Commitment to meet the deficit. Your Honor, in twenty-two years he ruled the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in Spain. The number of conferences of presidents of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party was four. He's been ruling the People's Party in Spain for twelve years, the number of conferences is two. We're all tied up for now. But if I remember that 2012 conference -- because I was -- where there was nothing more and nothing less than a joint declaration of commitment to the fulfilment of the public deficit. There was the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Yes, Mr. Leicega. We've been discussing whether Galicia should meet the public deficit or not, and you've been saying that you've been a champion of the public deficit for four years, just to defend the agreements of the presidents' conferences of the autonomous communities. Mr. Leicega, the conferences of presidents, probably with a lot of noise and a few walnuts, were different. For example, we meet to talk about R & D agreements. I'm not saying they're not important, but as you'll understand... less bad that conference I didn't call her or defend her. Look, Mr. Leicega, with all due respect, the presidents of the Socialist Party, the presidents who rule in the autonomous communities in the Socialist Party, positively appreciated the Conference of Presidents, and I am therefore surprised that you did not make a positive appraisal. The bilateral relations — I say, Mr Leicega — we leave them for the things that affect us bilaterally. Right themes, but the result is missing. True, but, ma'am, you will understand that we are not going to the Presidents' Conference to close the funding system, because if you were not right to explain what we were going to propose in the House. So we went to establish that within one month the expert meeting is constituted, and that expert meeting has to be forwarded to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, and then the objective is that in 2017 we finally have a consensus paper. I don't think you can do things faster, I don't argue with you that what's missing is the result, I said it, of course, Mr. Leicega, but I recognize reality, and that's why you should recognize it too. It's not a very noisy conference, it's a conference with a lot of agreements. That these agreements can achieve results, that is what we must continue to protect in the coming months. Your Honor, I don't think any president of a country's government is irresponsible to say that today we raise 20 billion euros less than in 2007, and that we spend 40 billion euros more on Social Security. That doesn't have to be said by the president of a country, that's simply the tax and accounting reality of the state. Listening to this to any citizen logically doesn't seem like good news, but politicians aren't here to lie, and we can't lie to people about the current situation in the country. You say you should give a convenient figure to get the best result for Galicia. Can you imagine that every autonomic president we gave the figure, the one you proposed, and with much more virulence the spokesperson for En Marea? Can you imagine a conference of presidents where we're going to say exactly the increase? Look, Mr. Leicega, I would like to see that the presidents of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in the autonomous communities did not pose the proposal of "x" per inhabitant and point, as some of them put it. I suppose you'd be in a position to compromise that no president of the Socialist Party is proposing a purely per capita financing system. So, what is it that you ask of me? Let's start the negotiation by losing positions on Galicia? I guess you're not asking me this. The actual cost of services as a model of self-financing, you and I defend it. The impact of health on the funding system, you and I defend it. The impact of population aging, we defend it. He says he doesn't think the expert formula is right, but he accepts that we consent to the expert. It was a pity, Your Honor, that they did not offer us to the majority parliamentary group in that House — 37 seats, most of them less than 1 seat — the proposal that you would make in the financing of health care, when you ruled, at the 2007 Conference of Presidents. And it was a pity, ladies and gentlemen, that when you were ruling Galicia, you had heard from the press of the Catalan Republican Left Negotiations with the Spanish Government's Minister of Fairy, and they were hilding the financing of all of them. Mr. Leicega, we think we can wake up the expert, we'd like it, and I honestly think it would be good, if it seems to you, and if it doesn't seem so, naturally, we're going to have to put the expert into practice on the basis of most of the Greek people. Exactly, what am I accused of? Do you think it's wrong that health spending is treated differently and considered as a fundamental element in autonomic financing, Mr. Spokesman of En Marea? Do you think it would be wrong to consider the demographic challenge a national strategy? Do you think it's wrong to remember an education pact? Does it seem wrong, in short, that Galician concerns are expressly collected in the agreement? Ask me what I went and what I was going to do. I should like to defend Galicia at the Conference of Presidents; to debate, to speak and to agree; to include demography, health, dependence, effective cost of public services in the financing of autonomous communities; to raise to the national pact the demographic problems of Galicia and other autonomous communities for the first time in the state of autonomy in more than thirty years; to propose a separate piece of public health in the financing system of autonomous communities. And you tell her what she was going to do. But, Your Honor, don't you know what I was? Actually, you're so nervous about other subjects that you don't know there was a president's conference. [[Laughter]] I don't know if En Marea's problems are predictable, but, of course, I'm not interested. The problem, Your Honor, is that denying reality is ridiculous. I don't know if you were talking to me or others; of course, I've come here for the Greeks, I haven't spoken for the parliamentary group or any fellow parliamentary group that supports the Government. What if I tell you, Your Honor, is, what are you in disagreement with? Tell you I didn't tell who I was arguing with. But are you interested in the anecdotes, too, Your Honor, with whom I discussed, what I told you, what did you say, what do we talk about again? At least he didn't ask me which autonomic presidents I ate with, because maybe he was interested too, but I think those things are of interest to some political parties where the order of priorities doesn't match with mine. Look, Your Honor, it's less bad that you came to this House to remind us that we are a historical nationality, because while you hadn't come to the House, I think we thought we were a council or a region. [[Laughter]] Look, a little more humility is important, Your Honor. Come to discover the country thirty-five years after the first democratic president of the Union took possession is something fantastic. Look, it gives me the feeling, with all the questions you ask me, that those who don't know what you want, because the first thing you're asking is to claim Galician national character, and with this I was reminded of BNG; and secondly, a federal system, and with this I was reminded of PSOE. You, exactly, what is your system? The BNG system in the morning and the PSOE system in the afternoon, or they're changing according to each assembly. Look, Mr. Villares, with all due respect, I'm going to defend Galicia, it's my obligation, it's my commitment, it's my task, and for that I'm here. I'm not going to defend any vision, however wonderful it sounds, when it's said, if there's nothing behind it, just noise. Your Honor, we are not a council in a region, of course not, we are a historic nationality because a lot of people before we fought for it, and that's why we're here, with an autonomous president of a historical nationality. You say Galicia's decreasing. Your Honor, Galicia is coming out of the worst economic recession an autonomous government has ever faced. I suppose you'll know that when this autonomous government took possession, only in the last year of the previous government had destroyed 50,900 jobs, and now we're creating 23,000 jobs in the last year alone. I suppose you'd know that only in the last year of the previous Government were more than 50,000 high on Social Security, and now we're building more than 17,600 high on Social Security. When I caught Galicia, actually, it was decreasing, and now it's growing, and if everything goes as it seems, in this 2017 we're going to get the same gross domestic product that we had in moments of economic well-being. Therefore, do not consider that the efforts of the Greeks were in vain, on the contrary, the efforts of the Greeks were worth it. Are we gonna keep working? The answer is yes. Are we going to continue to raise the topics that we are interested in? The answer is yes. What did I go to? I tried to explain this for forty-five minutes: I went to raise Galicia's interests in self-financing, I went to raise Galicia's interests in the financing of the unit, I went to suggest that health costs are impacted on the new financing system, I went to suggest that, from autonomous communities, I propose a basis for a basic agreement in the educational model, I went to say that the Government of Spain when I talk about fishing in Brussels should take account of Galicia's proposal, because we are the first European fishing region. I was going to suggest that aid to families with less resources is not just a problem for autonomous communities in the field of electricity. No, because the regulator is the central government, and consequently the problem that Spanish families are going through, and especially the Greeks, have to address themselves in the full scope of the state. I've been thinking, Your Honor, that the demographic problems aren't from the Greeks, not even from the northwest, the demographic problems are from Spain, which has no proper replacement rate. And I went on to suggest, Your Honor, that the key themes, demography, health and dependence, were on the table and were part of the key agreements of the conference. If you think I'm guilty of talking about demography in the area of the country's national strategy, about health having a separate piece in the field of funding, about the government of Spain, because it's not fulfilling the law's commitments... And by the way, when we're talking about regulatory capacity, when we're talking about tax autonomy, I agree, and that's why we're not going to raise the succession tax, but for 99% of the Greeks we're going to continue to eliminate the succession tax. The tax autonomy is that Galicia does not pay a burden for making purchases or sales in rural areas, that's tax autonomy. Now, fiscal autonomy should be for those autonomous communities that lower their taxes not at the cost of the public deficit financed by the rest of the citizens of other autonomous communities, as they do — by the way — nationalists. Catalan nationalists have a very nice approach, in the morning they are independent of Spain and in the afternoon they ask for credits to arrive at the end of the month. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. We've opened a special round of clarifications. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, I see you very angry. I don't know exactly, yes, yes, very angry, I don't know. [[Laughter]] I feel that we are right and that we touch your sensitive fiber there, and I have to say that your appearance — and all the time you've been running out — is the biggest criticism that this Conference of Presidents has really been a look, and the observation, Mr Feijóo, that your strategy leads us to political irrelevance within the state. And that's very bad news for this country, because we're seeing how we're losing opportunities. It follows, too, with this theme of this legislation that I am here responsible for all the evils of humanity and all that happens to Galicia. He came to say that I went to the Conference of Presidents and said that I was responsible for breaking the boxes. Do you think this is serious? Look, of course, I wasn't the one who sponsored a merger, I think you told us it was solvent. I, as a Member of this House, voted against the amendment of the law which fired the former box managers. It was you who made a change to lick them for another year in your office. By the way, Mr. Feijóo, the time they shielded those compensations. [[Applause]] And now you present yourself as having nothing to do with all that, and that is absolutely free from all sin. And all the girl who sent a letter to the director of the Banco de España. I knew that if you were committing a crime, you wouldn't send a letter, I wouldn't be left with a non-response. I would have gone to the prosecutor's office to investigate whether those compensations were true or not. And look, who was in this picture, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, it wasn't me, it was you who told us that this merger guarantees the future of our country's boxes. These are, Mr. Feijóo, your deeds, so I say that with serious problems for Galicia too. Because look, Euskadi kept a financial entity of his own, Catalonia kept a financial entity of his own, and Galicia didn't. And you want to tell us that your strategy is much better than that of Basque and Catalan nationalism? Well, it's better for you to go to Euskadi and Catalonia with your strategies and not with the submission you have to the Central Government, and today it's been absolutely clear in this audience. We want, Mr Feijóo, to have a bilateral relationship between Galicia and the State, and we want it to be on all the issues that affect us. You want to tell us that funding is not a matter where Galicia has the need to aspire to something more than to see how others decide for us? Mr. Feijóo, if you assume that Galicia is a historic nationality — not because of what the Constitution acknowledges us, because Galicia is a nation, say what the Spanish Constitution says — if you want to get on that train, why aren't you really doing the same thing the Catalans are doing right now, which is to ask the State that, at least, they have the right to an economic concert like the Basques have? And this is a very serious proposal and a comprehensive proposal for this country. Look, there's a lot of differences between Euskadi, Galicia and Catalonia, but there's one thing everybody knows about, and it's that the Basque economic concert was fundamental to a better development of their economy, so they had greater investment capacity and to have more resources, which even allowed them to cope much better during the crisis. We offer data that are made by economists and that are, in addition, supported on the official data of the Ministry of Business. What are yours? What data does Galician Union have? How can it be that in 2014 the Ministry has already opened a commission to study the revision of the financing system and in Galicia there is no data, no figures, no studies? What have you been doing all this time? Looking? Passing through the dishes? See if at any point he could jump, which he finally jumped into the abyss because they don't want it for you in Madrid, Mr. Feijóo? Of course, what was your responsibility on a key topic? [[Murmurs.]] We are proposing that Galicia have full financial autonomy, that we reduce our taxes and that with that money we improve health care, education and dependence. Because it's not true that we live in the solidarity of the state, the Greeks and the Greeks pay more in taxes than then returns through self-financing. And if not, Mr. Feijó, put the data on the table. We'll have a debate on something. Because the truth and the lamentable thing is that in this matter you're only doing the state a favor. He wants to cancel the presence of Galicia as a nation and cancel the capacity for us to have a full self-government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u39	...that we can really manage our lives, manage our resources. Why are you defending the State's interests and not Galicia's interests? We, Mr. Feijóo, really believe your submission is coming out very expensive. We trust the potential and capacity that our country has. And if the Basques have it, why not Galicia? If the Catalans are gonna have it, why not Galicia? Why would you want to get us off the nation train? And why does he want to keep maintaining a system that makes us lose more than 3,000 million euros every year? Please explain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u41	Good morning again. Luckily, there are hemerothecs and there are logbooks. Finally, you said in 2007: "At this conference you didn't even meet us, not even. And to propose this appearance you didn't send any documents." Those were his words in 2007. But wait, wait, wait... "Does a pact happen in Galicia without knowing the government proposal? Could anyone know which is the tale that would propose to the Government and its president at the conference?" —September 2005, Mr Núñez Feijóo. [[Applause]] Or, for example, what did he say in the year 2007?: "What about road infrastructure?, why don't we deal with infrastructure at the Conference of Presidents? We do not have infrastructure and therefore, Your Honor, we do not count at the Conference of Presidents, on the agenda we do not count" — Mr Núñez Feijóo, in 2007. Infrastructure, yes, yes; bilateral relationship, yes, but indeed infrastructure is also a state problem that must be... with autonomous communities. And what about — I won't use any more time — the profusion of figures that you used to recriminalize the Government that I couldn't confirm which were the proposals? We can go to the Session Diary and check it out. But we're going to the positive, which is what I'm interested in, we're going to the positive. The national strategy against the demographic challenge seems to me to be included in the Conference of Presidents, I think it is good that we agree to push it forward. There was a commitment to a future agreement. Perfect. Are you referring to the European Union? Good. But we would also like to see Mr. Rajoy's commitment that we're going to push this with reasonable financial support. In any case, as far as Galicia is concerned — which is what you have proposed as a pact — we seek a consensus. We made a proposal, we agree to participate. It has to be through a mechanism that is not organic and functionally integrated into the Galician Union, so we're talking about the Economic and Social Council. But there may be other models. And it has to be a mechanism that allows the participation of all parliamentary groups in a balanced way in the composition of that observatory or similar commission. From there he counts with us to talk about fertility and its fall, aging, but also about migration balances — although it costs you to recognize that there is a negative migration balance of young people in relation to the rest. Second question, the education pact — which you did not propose — He told us that he was going to discuss the education pact in the Senate with a monographic debate. What we ask of you is that Galicia's position be the subject of a parliamentary debate. There are possibilities in the regulation. There has to be a previous document and that document has to be forwarded to the House, so that the House parliamentary groups can make proposals for a peaceful, peaceful debate and allow what the Education Councillor takes to the various forums has a wider support than that of his party; which is legitimate that of his party, which is most in this House, there is no problem, but it would be better if he had more support. Third, gender violence. It seems to us that your proposal is good, but that remains in the hands of the Galician Nationalist Block, which has to accept the amendment. But if that amendment is not accepted, we are also willing to push that subcommittee within the specific equality commission in this House to reach an agreement on gender-based violence. And by the way, it has already been dealt with at various conferences of presidents, but it is good that it is now being dealt with because it is a central issue of the country — of state, if any — in which we must work together among all. And finally, on the question of funding — very quickly — I repeat my opening up to talk about the possibility of agreeing with an expert. But I also tell you that we will have a chance at this plenary session and the next one to continue discussing this subject. And we're going to make an effort to need the position that Galicia must defend. The spokesperson for the People's Group said, "It's not right to talk about figures." Well, that's not what you said when you were in opposition, it wasn't. But in any case, I remember: Conference of Presidents on Health Financing: 6. billion above the table; revision of the 2009 financing model: 11.600 million above the table. Not for Galicia, for the whole thing. It would be good to have some perspective, at last, some financial horizon to which the Government of Spain can be committed, because that certainly makes things easier. And we also want targets. I repeat again: the actual cost of services, if you read the motivation statement for the year 2009, you will see that it is already there. Health is already contemplated and aging and dispersal. So we already have those elements. The thing is, how much do we weigh?, how much weight? By the way — and not in relation to you but with some measures of asymmetry — in these matters asymmetry is just that. In these matters asymmetry is aging, it's dispersion, it's in any case the existence of a language itself. These are the differential cost elements that should be incorporated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u43	...to the financing model. And that's the most important and what guarantees equality among all Spanish citizens regardless of where they live. And for us too, it is important to defend that solidarity has to be full, it cannot be related to some public services because they are very essential, but it has to be for the whole set of functions that autonomous communities perform. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u44	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u45	He remembered that nothing was being discovered here in relation to Galician national character, of course. What happens is, you have to remember it sometimes. Because whoever has the role of acting as president of the country does not exercise, and therefore remembering is always good. We also remember today the killing of Atocha, people who gave their lives so that today we all enjoy a regime that also allows us to enjoy a regime of freedoms and behave as a country and thus exercise our powers. [[Applause]] Just like Daniel and Amador, who have done the same thing before, and so many others that have done a lot for us today to have a regime that allows us to live in democracy with minimum guarantees and social rights, and also of a national nature; therefore, that it does not allow, and that is why we do not allow — and we cannot but remember it in this gallery — that we must exercise what is, we must exercise because that is a citizen's mandate. And, therefore, now that this is a key moment to exercise as president of a country, do it. That's what we're asking him for, we're not asking him any more. And we are asking him to benefit the social majority that are claiming of all of us — of the public authorities — a solidarity; but a solidarity that is not charitable but based on social justice. Public power must fulfil a function of redistribution of income, of wealth, and ensure minimum social rights. And that's what you have to take to the Conference of Presidents, and that's what we believe you haven't done properly. Paul and Paul were present at that meeting in Ephesus....
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u46	[...]... all governments in Spain, the state and the autonomics consider that the demographic challenge must be prioritized, and they are committed to taking this issue to Europe and making it a priority there too. And in the agreement, by the way, it is cited as an precedent what has already been worked out on the initiative of Galicia with the communities of Asturias, Aragon and Castile and León at the Forum of Regions with Demographic Challenges. So the fact that Spain assumes this work and intends to develop this year a national strategy against the demographic challenge to us does not seem irrelevant to us. And of course, we don't find self-financing irrelevant. Let's see, the president, first, has just offered dialogue to appoint an expert. We appreciate the predisposition of the Socialist Group, we assume -- because he didn't say anything -- that of the En Marea Group, and we expect to see that the expert brings us the Block that defends the coupon, because it's going to be very difficult to find a single expert who brings the coupon. Maybe she's calling Mrs. Pontón on the phone right now. Well, the coupon is obvious it doesn't, it doesn't give the accounts. We have an income that is less than half. And, let's see, I've read a little book that they've now drawn in defense of the coupon, which recognizes that there's a negative balance of more than 1 billion in Galicia if you join Social Security. Social Security is an instrument for redistribution of the Spanish market, like the IRPF or corporate tax. And you don't understand why what's good is to keep the Social Security box, as the Block recognizes, doesn't stay for IRPF or corporate tax, especially when we're under income. We'll talk about numbers. But what we would like to highlight is that Galicia has managed to get the agreement to say the following: that the analysis for reform should be based on the principles of solidarity, adequacy, equity and transparency, fiscal co-responsibility and guarantee that citizens will have access to public services according to their actual cost. Is this political irrelevance? Is this political irrelevance, or is it political irrelevance when Catalonia arrives and says that there has to be a principle of ordinality and that what is agreed to cover public services with equality must be redistributed so that no autonomous community loses resources in relation to the income it produces? Where is political irrelevance? It seems to me that this is a fundamental aspect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u48	Mr. President, since there is no clock, I ask you to let me finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u49	We've got the clock upstairs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u50	We'll talk about the boxes this afternoon, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u51	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u52	Meanwhile, you can look for some autonomous community in which you nationalized and sold the savings box and kept the financial institution domiciled in your territory. I think Galicia is the only one, but, of course, this is due to the political irrelevance of the United Nations. Ladies and gentlemen, the president has offered three agreements, about the expert, about gender violence — we will see if this afternoon it is going to him, we have seen that the PSOE itself — and about demography, and a commitment to information. We believe that it is a good way, the Conference of Presidents, to move forward in the autonomous state, to increase autonomy and coordination; that the Conference of Presidents is a good idea, a good idea that arose from Galicia and that, like all good ideas, has opened up step...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u54	...with time. We encourage you, Mr President, to maintain this information commitment to the House and the coordinated work with the other autonomous communities and with the State at the Conference of Presidents, for the sake of Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u55	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Shut up. Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Pontón, in all respects, knows that the mergers of financial institutions do not endorse them by the autonomous communities, which the Banco de España supports. And, therefore, if the Banco de España is a merger of financial institutions, the logic is that the governments of the autonomous communities create in the solvency of the Banco de España. You say that merger didn't go well. Indeed, Your Honor, Spain entered an economic recession and the core capital of the mergers today was "x" and the following three months was "x" plus 30%. And that's why the fusion of the yellow boxes didn't work, as no fusion of any box in Spain did. I suppose that makes you think about it. The BNG, when it raised country issues, agreed with the People's Parliamentary Group on the proposal that financial institutions should disappear, which was the proposal of the Central Government. And we voted together in the House. I've always thanked him and I'll always keep thanking him. That's why I'm surprised you're changing your mind just because you're interested in BNG. In Galicia, no. He said, "In Catalonia and Euskadi they kept the financial institutions." Yes, Your Honor, it must be that in Catalonia and Euskadi the directors managed the financial institutions well and the financial custody by the governments of Euskadi and Catalonia was corrected. In any case, as you know, most Catalan boxes have broken, only one has resisted. But the Catalan boxes were merged into two, a group called Unnim and another group called Cataluña Caixa. They both went down and neither of them stayed in Catalonia. I have no objection to talking about boxes, it's one of the issues I've continued to defend the country and I'm going to do it, despite all the pitfalls, despite all the demagogy, despite all the lies. But the important thing is that we're keeping a company with 5,000 jobs here today, I think that's what's important. And as the spokesperson for the majority group said, you tell me in which autonomous community this was possible. Because everywhere they had boxes that broke down, they lost their tax office. Yes, Your Honor. If you want to talk to me about La Caixa, Bank Caixa, or if you want to talk to me about the Euskadi box, there are two that were working correctly and in proper accounting when they arrived at the Government the following, which didn't happen to me. And you'll know why, indeed. Look, Your Honor, I don't understand very well exactly if you think it's going to be President of the Board to make a leap to the abyss. Tell you that in 2014 and then I went to see if I could make a leap to Madrid and eventually I jumped into the abyss. What a chasm, Your Honor, to be president of my country! If this seems to you to be a chasm, the truth is you haven't had the best of the phrases in the history of Greek nationalism, to consider a chasm to be President of the Council of Galicia. It's not an abyss, Your Honor, it's an honor. It looks good to you what the Basques do. Let the Basques do what they consider appropriate and don't imitate your models that hurt our country. Yes, they do harm, Your Honor. Tomorrow we have a question about his theme of the concert. You've been talking about the concert a long time ago. The problem is nobody cares. I suppose the rest of the Greeks that don't seem good to us will be the same as you. If in the House the only proposal for a concert is from BNG, do you think that more than 70 Members in this House are delaying Galicia? 69, 68... no matter what, Your Honor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't remind me of the number of seats the BNG has, Your Honor, because I don't think it's appropriate, I don't think it's appropriate, Your Honor. [[Applause]] I say, Mrs. Pontón, honestly, that you look at the accounts and don't let yourself be led by the stories, because here we're going to talk about them. And the Greeks know how to do their bills well. The tales are something else. Tomorrow we'll talk about it, and allow me tomorrow to answer your questions at the control session. Your Honor, the Government is coming. First he was the councillor of Fairy, he came to defend the assumptions and the law of accompaniment within a few days of taking possession. I think that this should be an asset for a country, that a few days from taking possession of a government the first thing you do in a week is to bring the spending ceiling, and, the second, fifteen days later, bring the assumptions of the autonomous community. Is there any autonomous community to do this in the state of Spanish autonomy? None, Your Honor. Don't say that we're not coming; first the councillor of Fairy and then the president of the Government, and now, immediately, the vice president, and so on. Look, Your Honor, I don't hide from you how many times I come here in this Parliament: every Wednesday, three and a half times, depending on the number of groups that are going to exist in the House. I'm going to keep coming, as it is logical, and I've just promised that every time there's a president's conference I have to attend automatically. Mr. Leicega, is it true that in 2007 I talked about infrastructure systems, but do you know why, Mr. Leicega? You remember him well. It's just that we were going to have the AVE in 2010 and we were in 2007 and the AVE had not started. And I said, "Hey, but do you really -- who's the president of the government there -- aren't going to talk about how long the high-speed train is going to enter Galicia, which turns out you didn't leave Valladolid upstairs? In 2007, Your Honor, it was said that AVE would arrive in Galicia in 2010, after it was said to arrive in 2012... yes, Your Honor, I had to deal with the Socialist Party in 2015. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, Your Honor! You know why? Because there was a socialist minister who stopped lying constantly and continuously. He said, man, we've been caught in the lie, now we're going to set a reasonable deadline. And when we arrived in 2015 -- I'm not saying that that minister didn't do things, which he did a lot more than the previous one -- we saw that, indeed, he wouldn't be in 2018. I'm going to give the deadline of the AVE and I'm going to give my opinion on it, but I've been saying for a year that the fact that there is no government in Spain wouldn't go out for free for the Spanish infrastructures. And you block with that "you're not, and that part of it doesn't understand." Well, sir, the part of the fact that we don't understand is that for a year, the country's infrastructure has been blocked as a result of our lack of capacity to execute, to bid and to hire. [[Murmurs.]] Madam, you say that on the demographic issue you agree but that the board does not coordinate and does not run the committee. Your Honor, the universities agree, the unions agree, the Galaga Federation of Municipalities agrees, and now you come to make the rules. We're all in agreement except for you. And why don't you join the initial agreement? But if we immediately amend the decree, Mr. Leicega! The decree changed it tomorrow. I made that proposal in the plenary and I just did it again! Do you want to join in with what we're working with universities, unions and municipalities, or do you want to unilaterally establish a different methodology from what we're all using together? Mr. Leicega, you join the deal and let's go faster, because if you don't, there's going to be a problem. Mr. Leicega, you talked about education, and I appreciate it. There is indeed an organic law that is in force. There's a law that needs to be improved. The central government's proposal is to accept it, I think. The central government offers a dialogue and offers a concrete education pact. Do we need a stable education system? The answer is yes. The government you defended for the first law you repealed was an educational law of the previous government, which had not yet entered into force, which had not yet entered into force. Unimplemented law effects has already been repealed. So it's time to avoid shortcuts to get an agreement, avoid extreme positions and avoid maximalistic positions. So let's leave education to the edge of politics and talk about the quality of public education in our country. Is there any will to dialogue and build pacts? The answer is yes. Are we going to participate? Yes. Do you want to make proposals for our participation in Galicia? That's good for me. Let's look for that pact that overcomes the partisan strategies. I think it's right, too. But I honestly think we're in a position where it's not right to start arguing about it again. Your Honor, you say that in 2005 more resources were put in place, that in 2009 more resources were put in place. In 2009 the public debt of the Spanish State did not reach 40% of GDP, today we are at 100%, Mr. Leicega. You've just suggested that we need an additional EUR 2 billion in dependence, and they've already made a figure. You're also proposing an income for all those unemployed who have lost their benefits, which has an amount of about EUR 11,000 million. If you want to deal with the central government 2,000 million more for dependence and 11 billion more for long-term unemployed, what do you think can be the figure for self-financing? If we have a public deficit greater than expected, if we are still in public deficits of 4% and now you are proposing nothing more and nothing less than EUR 13,000 million more spending in 2017 — in the assumption that we have to approve, or there will be no budget — I suppose you have a share for funding. It would be much easier, such is your proposal, since what we have is that we will deal with it. What we already know is that they want 2,000 million more for dependence and 11 billion more for long-term unemployed. We know enough. What's going on, Your Honor, is that you're missing a little bit of data. He says, "What's your proposal?" But, Your Honor, will it not be more reasonable first to construct the methodology and which of the methodology was the proposal? Do we agree? Let's write down the methodology and then... the two things? Are we already making the proposal before we can put the methodology into practice? Well, Mr. Leicega, the truth is... you talk to your colleagues about the Socialist Party, because the truth is, it's less bad than you didn't go to the conference, because there probably wouldn't be one deal. Even though there, naturally, I wouldn't pose what I'm thinking here. I thought about it the same way here. I said either there was agreement or there shouldn't be a new model, I said there was either multilaterality or it shouldn't be agreed among all just the pact between two or three. And the Government is from the People's Party. So I told the party's government what I'm part of that doesn't seem reasonable and we're not going to accept that the funding system is bilaterally agreed upon, as you have agreed. We won't accept it, Mr. Leicega. I hope you change your mind, because I used to accept bilateral negotiation and now it seems that you agree with the multilateral. That's good. Anyway, we'll keep working. Thank you for agreeing to deal with the expert. Not bad. If you had proposed to me to deal with the expert in the opposition, you would also agree, Mr. Leicega, the truth is, yes. But I think it's good... No, no, what I don't think is very good is that you say this isn't an expert subject, but that, nevertheless, you accept the proposal to deal with the expert. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Home! Mr. Leicega, I thought I was going to say: listen, okay, we agreed with the expert, point. Because if not, it's very difficult, really. Criticizing everything, Mr. Leicega, it only takes maximalistic positions. The spokesperson for En Marea said I have to exercise as president of the country. I don't do anything else, Mr. Villares. I'm sure if you'd been acting as president of the country, you'd do much better than me, I don't have any doubt. What's the matter is that the Greeks disagree, Mr. Villares, they disagree. That's why I'm going to continue to act as a spokesperson for my country. [[Applause]] I'm glad you have the best of your successes. You plant me on the electric ticket, tomorrow I think you'll ask about it. If you like it, by keeping the control session, we're going to ask these questions. He finally made it clear to me that his national vision of the country does not exclude that the financing system should be done on a stage of multilaterality since equality. We agree: multilaterality since equality, based on the actual cost of services. Therefore, we agree, Your Honor. Well, it's not bad, because I thought you were in the dome, in the BNG concert, and now everything seems to indicate that you're not in the dome, in the BNG concert, which is in multilaterality, that is, in the vast majority of parliamentarians here. Do you see how you can defend a different stance that doesn't match nationalism? Maybe, and it's good for the country. Because you don't believe that nationalists have the exclusive defense patent in the country. No, there are suggestions that are negative to the country. And do you see how multilaterality is a system that Galicia is interested in? We, of course, see it that way. Sir, you say we have two thousand and a half million less than in 2008. Your Honor, I've been saying that the Galician Union is managing public services for 25 billion less than the Bipartite managed. Let's see that the task was ingenious, because reaching the end of the month with 2,500 million euros less every year is ingenious, Mr. Villares. And I believe that this is to be recognised by the people of Galicia, who have been able to pay what they should, who have been able to do, who have not been able to increase public debt above the agreement in the Tax and Financial Policy Council, who has been able to be the autonomous community with the lowest increase in public debt in the last eight years, who has been able not to ask the Liquidity Fund for a euro, who has been able to maintain the protection of the own treasure of the autonomous community and who has been able to maintain fiscal autonomy. Don't you think, Your Honor, that this is to exercise as president of a country? I'm sure you'd exercise otherwise, but we do this. [[Applause]] So I don't know what you think about fiscal harmonisation, because you're talking about multilaterality since equality. Do you mean that the proposal of En Marea is to raise the tax of succession or not? Do you mean that En Marea's proposal is to raise the property tax or not? Do you mean that En Marea's proposal is to impose taxes on rural areas or not? We don't agree with this, we certainly can talk. We don't agree with this. You know why? Because the fall of taxes in Galicia has no effect on any citizen of the rest of the state, we pay for it. And that's why we don't agree in autonomous communities that lower taxes, that make a public deficit and that then we have to fund their tax drop with a public deficit, that is, with the money of the Greeks. There, Your Honor, we will meet, defending the interests of the Greeks. And then I agree with the BNG, we defend the interests of the Greeks. But the best interests of the Greeks are not to raise taxes on the Greeks, the best interests of the Greeks are to arrive at the end of the month with the lowest possible tax pressure, which consists of a community with an income below the average of the state. If you pay less taxes in Galicia despite having 2,500 million less annual incomes, it's because this economic policy is thinking about families and you're not thinking about the abilities and competences of the President of the Union to do great things or to pose ideas that then pay the Greeks with public debt. We already owe you enough, Mr. Villares. By the way, sometimes you tell me that we have to increase public debt, but on the other hand, they also tell me that we have to reduce public debt. But that, of course, will be a matter of another moment. Look, despite having 2,500 million euros less, we are the autonomous community with more teachers per student in Spain. We are an autonomous community with an increase of more than 30,000 vocational training squares. We are one of the autonomous communities -- not "one," but "the" autonomous community -- with the lowest university rates in Spain. Despite having 2,600 million euros less, Your Honor, we have better public services than we had with 2,600 million euros more. Something we've done right for these eight years. Ladies and gentlemen, we're done. I appreciate that, at the bottom, although not specifically stated, we agree. We agree that in Spain today we are going to talk about demography, we agree that we cannot close a financing system bilaterally. We agree that public health, which has 40% of the cost impact, should take account of that self-financing. We agree that we are not going to fund emotions or flags or ideological approaches. We're going to fund the grown-ups, the kids and the grown-ups. We're going to fund what the provision of public services costs. Let's talk about the topics that Galicia is interested in as a whole of state multilaterality. There are no trenches here, no barriers, no lands friends or enemies. Here, ladies and gentlemen, there are legitimate interests that we will defend in accordance with the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government. Let's therefore put forward proposals. Is there a lot of work left? Yes, is the whole realization left? Yes. Is there a lot of conclusions left? Yes. But do we start the Conference of Presidents properly? Yes. That's why, Mrs. Pontón, I can't be less angry. I can't hide it from you that I left the president's conference rather cheerfully because of the proposals we had. No, I know it's you who's angry, but don't try to contaminate the angry. Look, the engagement is clear. And we have just proposed, ladies and gentlemen: can we sign a pact to realize an expert who acts in the name and representation of the Government of Galicia? Our proposal is yes. Will parliamentary groups be incorporated into the demographic commission? Within the national strategy of demography that we have to adopt in 2017 for the set of Spain, will the parliamentary groups of the House be incorporated? Our proposal is that they be incorporated. The appearance after the president's conferences and the appearance after the follow-up committee by the vice-president will it be mandatory in the House? Our commitment is yes. Can we propose a unique stance in gender-based violence to move to that gender-based violence conference? Our proposal is for BNG to accept, since he has the initiative this afternoon. And if you don't accept it, we'll accept it in another session, as the PSdeG-PSOE spokesman recalled. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep working, what starts well can end well. That will depend on what we are able to do, the presidents of the autonomous communities and the central government. And there is one thing that became clear at the presidents' conference: in Spain there is no core of power, the central government; and in Spain there can be no two power groups, Madrid and Barcelona; in Spain there are seventeen groups where we democratically defend our interests, which are the governments of all the autonomous communities, and the state is the body of presidents of the autonomous communities and the president of the central government. That is the vision of Galicia and that is the vision of the majority group of this Parliament, which I am convinced coincides with 100 percent of the Members of this House. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. We move on to the second item on the agenda. Opinion of the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u58	You have the floor of the Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency and Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. I compare, after the appearance that has just taken place by the President of the Union, beginning with the round of appearances that will have from now on, appearances, on the other hand, usual at the beginning of the legislation of the members of the Government of Galicia to expose the lines of action of the various councils of the Union of Galicia in the legislation we are beginning. However, this third legislation — therefore, the third appearance of general lines — is in the spirit — I think it must never be lacking — with the sense of responsibility and, of course, with the willingness to collaborate and receive all the necessary collaboration in the search for consensus, where possible, to implement the policies of my department. I think this arrangement has led to the culmination in the past legislate some features I think relevant, promoted from this department. And I therefore insist that this provision is again the same at the beginning of this legislation. I'm going to structure my intervention around two large axes — by systematizing it a little — which summarizes the actions that will take place from the Vice-Presidentship and from its different management centres. The first will be on the basis of providing public services entrusted to our responsibility, within the best possible resources and standards also suitable to meet the needs of our citizens and thus to provide quality public services. And also the second axis will consist of achieving an accessible administration, a government prepared for the new technologies and the possibilities they offer, a transparent but also efficient and always respectful administration with the resources it manages and the rights of citizens. Starting with the first of the two major axes that I have just announced, the reference to the management of the public services that we have entrusted to the Vice-Presidentship, and also starting with the issue of justice, it must be said that this legislation will allow the completion of very important projects already started in the previous one, apart from those that we are going to do with an ex-new character in this legislation. First, there will be an end — in any case, very soon — to the large judicial infrastructure already under way in the plan that began in 2010, to large legal infrastructures for construction of new buildings or, if not, major reforms of buildings that already existed. Already this month of February, in just thirty days, will complete the adaptation and reconstruction of the tobacco factory in the Coruña to allocate there the legal units of the Coruña, part of them — 16 million investment —. It's over in just a month. In the first half of 2018, next year, the works that are already being carried out in the new judicial building of Parda in Pontevedra will be completed with nearly 20 million euros of investment. And in 2019 it will complete the reform of the General Hospital of Vigo to make it a new city of Vigo Justice, with more than 25 million investments. This same year the works will begin. They must also be added, during this legislation, the construction of other works, not of such great magnitude, but of works with an important investment, in those judicial parties where necessary, where urgency or necessity makes it necessary to commit new judicial infrastructures. It's Tui's case, announced last year. The planned investment is EUR 2.2 million and this year will begin the works. And so during the legislation in which we believe, according to the High Court of Justice, that such investments are necessary. Besides, without in any case discarding minor works, small investments, but which are sometimes very necessary, in judicial buildings. We will continue to invest amounts around €500,000 annually, in addition to the Energy Efficiency Plan, with almost 3 million euros, which is a four-year plan that has already begun to run in the past legislation, and which will allow to perform works related to energy efficiency but also important works in many Jewish buildings in Greece. And so, from 2009 until today, counting on the bids that I've just exposed them, you can say that this judicial infrastructure plan — finished or, if not, geared towards ending the dates that I told you in its entirety — has allowed you to invest around 100 million euros, which is almost twice as much as you invested in judicial infrastructure in Galicia since the Autonomous Community had assumed jurisdiction over justice in 1995. Secondly, and also in the wake of justice, I believe that in the coming years, in this legislation, it must be in which we achieve among all — this is a complex task, a work that has long begun and that, of course, will need the collaboration of all those involved — that the judicial procedure is completely digitized. Following the path plan will be fundamental to this goal, and we will extend the possibility of electronic communication with the judges, the possibility of filing claims and written electronically, addressed to the Administration of Justice, from the notaries, from the penitentiaries, from hospitals, from the State Corps and Security Forces and, ultimately, and to finish, from all natural and legal persons who write to the Administration of Justice. We will also advance, in the use of the incorporation of new features, in the viewer of the legal file, which is already being implemented, it is already working, we must continue to develop it — we have been pioneers — and for this we will be very supportive of the Greek electronic judicial headquarters, in whose implementation we have also been pioneers. We will complete the video recording network, through the eFidelius system, which already covers 85% of today's rooms, far ahead of the average deployment in other autonomous communities, and will also complete the installation of the video conferencing system in all judicial units in Galicia, which is already around 30 judicial parties. We're going to complete its implementation, and we're also going very far ahead of the average deployment of these kinds of devices in other autonomous communities, and we're definitely going to do it because their advantages are obvious. We will also continue with the renewal of computer equipment, in the workplaces and in the judicial bodies, which is also necessary, first, because they have a determined useful life and they need to be solved, and more now that we want to do all these implants that I just mentioned, which need new computer equipment these jobs. And thirdly, I think it is essential that we take the final steps towards the implementation of the new judicial office, which is very closely linked, in addition to the advances in the field of new technologies in the administration of justice. So, until now this has conditioned its implementation, and once it's published, sorry, that the decree of the new office is already published, let's start, as a pilot experience, with the implementation of the judicial office in Ourense, we will then follow with the High Court of Justice, we will follow through Santiago, Lugo, Ferrol, Pontevedra, so through the cities, and, finally, we will do it in all the judicial parties. Along with investments in infrastructure, alongside investments in new technologies, no doubt it is the work of people that remains fundamental, and therefore we continue with the program of personal resources to sustain the functioning of judicial units, assuming the commitment to equip, without any doubt, all those judicial units that are being created along this legislation. Already in 2017, as soon as the Ministry publishes the decree, the judicial units approved in 2016 will begin to function, and this will assume that 24 new officials and officials will be incorporated into these newly created judicial bodies, and, of course, the Board will assume the budgetary cost that this entails, just as it will be done with all those judicial bodies — I insist — that they agree to create during the rest of the legislation. I say this because there are other autonomous communities that are giving up — or at least they did so when judicial bodies were set up — the creation of new judicial bodies, precisely because they cannot afford these budgetary costs. The Galician Union has already done so, and it will continue to do so. We will also, of course, continue with a plan that is of fundamental importance — and it is increasingly being seen as it progresses — which is the disconnection in judicial archives trials through a purge program, and this is linked to the extension of electronic file management, which is already being implemented, and which, no doubt, is combined with the elimination of many thousands of boxes, which account for many hundreds of thousands of judicial files -- this allows, first, to release space, which was becoming a pressing problem in many judicial units, and, moreover, to computerize the files so that they can be easily managed. We will continue, too, in the issue of justice by betting on the mediation system. It just celebrated the day of mediation, and I believe that the bet that has been made these years — less of drive and deployment — shows that there is already in all the cities of Greece in one way or another, sometimes working with universities and others collaborating with the schools of lawyers and prosecutors themselves; in all cases with universities looking for some kind of partner, so say, to implement mediation. It is already in the seven cities of Galicia and its future development that we expect is the need — and we will do so — to establish an administrative infrastructure from the Galician Union in order to be able to manage the mediation activity, which I believe — and we are going to bet on that — that we will experience an important development in this legislature. We will also end up with a problem that was actually being reported by the Galician Institute of Legal Medicine. It was necessary to increase the equipment, and this has led us — as you know, since I announced it in the presence of budgets — to the creation of 14 new squares in the psychosocial teams and 4 forensic medical squares, which will undoubtedly result in the agileization of the issuance of reports by this institute. And finally, by ending up in the issue of justice, in the shift of office, after these years, where we have agreed with the seven schools of lawyers a speeding up in the average times of collection, at last this year we can fulfill the commitment to raise the shift by 10%. Now we have to negotiate them, but no doubt the twenty-two days on average that are taking, from certification to schools, the school professionals to charge the shift of duty are reinforced by this 10% increase in the salaries that professionals of the profession will be receiving as early as this year 2017. Another of the key priorities will continue to be equality, the promotion of equality from the administration, and the fight against gender-based violence. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we have made progress in recent years. I believe that, in fact, several of the commitments made four years ago at a meeting like this, with regard to these issues, have been reached. Without a doubt, this can't lead us unless we think about the need to keep working, because of course there's a lot left to do. We are particularly pleased that we have finally put in place — that is an open path and that we must persevere in this legislation — the need for awareness that a special effort must be made in education with regard to the promotion of the values of equality and the fight against gender violence. I believe that the implementation, at last, of the last year of the Italian Plan of Education and Equality, which I have assumed, since we could begin to offer the centres a matter of gender equality, has left us a way in which we will persevere in this legislation. It has concluded the VI Women's and Men's Equality Plan, 300 actions, and what is now going to be presenting the VII plan, which is going to schedule these actions until 2020. This is about general planning, but there are also specific problems that can also be covered by these plans, but that need more timely action; therefore, we will continue to do them, especially as regards conciliation and co-responsibility. We are drawing up, and we will also present this year, the first plan of conciliation and co-responsibility of Galicia, the 2018-2022 temporal horizon, and of course, also during its elaboration, and then before its presentation, we look forward to listening to all those involved and counting on the arrivals of parliamentary groups. Another plan, to which we will continue to give special impetus in the coming years, is that of extending training — and in this we are also pioneers in all fields, in all fields, in all sectors, to all officials and civil servants working in the Administration of Galicia — specific in the area of equality, prevention and treatment of gender violence. In the coming weeks we will proceed to pass a decree that will finally extend it to all public administration staff, and we will be, as I said before, the first community to develop a regulation of this silence and with this intention. Also on its day was this pioneer Parliament in the adoption, on 14 April, of Law 2/2014, Law for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals and intersexuals, and what happens from now on — and it has already been said at that time when this law was passed — the great challenge is the development of the measures which are understood in this law in a cross-sectional manner as regards the German Government, and so we will continue these measures and in support of the LGTBI associative tissue. Ladies and gentlemen, I simply mean, and the President has already done so in his speeches — I think that in all those who have taken the floor in the appearance that has come to pass — in the offer to this House — this afternoon we will try to be able to achieve a consensus position, a joint position, to move the position of the Galician Parliament, and through this position of the Galician Parliament to the position of the people of Greece, to the specific session that will take place in the Senate, after the Conference of Presidents, on measures to combat gender violence. I believe that we must all be there, overcoming the different points of view that we may have, in a joint position; I think it would be good for everyone, and therefore by the Government of Greece there remains the disposition which the President of the Union has already expressed a moment ago: I believe that the Committee on Equality would, after making the necessary debates, be the appropriate body to be able to carry out this position. With regard to the victims of gender-based violence, we will also present in the coming weeks the protocol for coordination and institutional cooperation against gender-based violence, which seeks nothing more than to give, clearly and concisely, victims of gender-based violence a tool that provides them with personalized, specialized attention, and that provides them with a clear itinerary in their dealings with administrations, that they always have a reference technical person, and therefore that it is all the easier for them, within the normally difficult situation that they are supposed to be victims of gender-based violence, that dealing with administrations does not suppose an added penalty. Of course, we will also maintain direct support for the victims of gender-based violence, for the people who depend on them as well, for the economic aid. This year, as you know, we've increased regular arrivals by more than 60%, we'll continue to provide them with free psychological assistance, of course everything they need, and this year we've increased the budget allocation -- as they know and I said in the budget appearance -- by 23%. And we will follow and continue — and all of this I have just said, of course, will be throughout the legislation — with work programmes specific to victims of gender violence. And all of this as resources improve, maintain and continue to extend the resources of proximity through, above all, the local administrations, which is often the first door to which victims of gender-based violence approach; and all of this will logically do so, apart from specific programs directed at the councils, at local coordination tables in the field of prevention and combating gender-based violence, through, specifically, from information centres to women. The Galician Union will continue to make an important bet for its maintenance in collaboration with the municipalities, and for its extension where there really is a clear will on the part of the local authorities, who still do not have them, to have these resources of first necessity. Also, before moving on to the interior matter, and related to gender-based violence, you know that it came into operation last summer the specific unit of the Police assigned to the fight against gender-based violence. So, during this legislation, once it's been in operation -- I say it's only been half a year -- it will further improve its coordination with the rest of the State Corps and Security Forces, and, therefore, it will become a unit, we hope that essential and fundamental, to help the victims. Referring to the police unit—after making this reference to this new role that has been developed for six months—to say that we will continue its empowerment, not only for this fundamental work that they do in the attention of victims of gender violence, but also for another related to theft, the protection of minors, the protection of the environment and the heritage. That's why we're still betting on this unit and this way of having a police force attached to the Galician Union, and that's why we're going to keep insisting that it needs to be completed again. It is true that after the incorporations that have occurred in recent years we have reached almost – and that is the ideal goal – 500, but they have lost force and that is why we will ask them to complete the Ministry of the Interior, being aware that this is an important effort, since also the national police staff itself is demanding that it be completed, but we believe that we have sufficient reasons to make this claim. So much less the situation is what it was like when in 2009 we found the police unit with just 350 troops, but it's true that we want to get closer to the ideal ratio of 500. At the same time, we are looking at — and we will do it throughout this legislation — its material provision with a virtually complete renewal of the attached police car park, which is very old-fashioned, and we will also start with the inauguration, last week, precisely, of the new headquarters that will have the police unit inscribed in the city of Coruña, with a reorganization of the headquarters of this unit, both in Vigo — where I think it is the most necessary — as in the city of Ourense. This refers to the police unit. I would also like to pretend that in this legislation we want to make a boost, to increase collaboration as regards the functioning of the local police. The Galician Union has clear powers defined in the law on the regulation of local police, which are a municipal body — as everyone knows — but we have coordination powers. So here we will also have three main objectives: firstly, in the development of the law of the year 2007, of coordination — particularly what I was referring to earlier — which has just been changed in other respects. We believe, and I believe, that it is very necessary — and many mayors and mayors are demanding it — to pass a decree that collects inter-municipal cooperation as far as possible. It's true that here we are very conditioned also by the Law of State Security Forces and Bodies and by other regulations. But it is true that it must be possible, and it must be made possible by regulation, that municipal police can collaborate and do things outside their own municipal term; or, at least, when there are several local police performing joint actions. I say that, legally, it's not a simple issue, there are a number of obstacles that must be overcome, but I think we have to be able to do it, because this — in the end — is optimizing resources, and often means giving a council a solution that sometimes cannot be achieved by simply turning to the state's forces and security bodies that are located in its county or its area. This will also lead us to establish joint action protocols of the various local police bodies, respecting the municipal autonomy of every county with a police force. We believe that there must be joint protocols of action, especially if we want these forms of approval, which I was referring to earlier. And finally, it has already been announced at the meeting of the president of the board with the president of the Fegamp — if the municipalities so wish — that there is a framework agreement that we will sign almost immediately with the Fegamp to make it possible. But then it'll have to be the city halls that ask you -- in a number, in addition, enough to be able to convene these selective processes -- to the Galician Council that centralize the local police's selective evidence, so it's a single test with all those men and women who want to access these bodies. And from there on, let's make -- so to speak -- a single list of people who go beyond the selective processes so they can go to the different municipalities. I insist that this is a complaint from many municipalities, simply the Council of Galicia, what it expresses here is the possibility and willingness to do so in this legislature. I insist, as long as the municipalities, in sufficient numbers, decide to entrust this task to the self-government. As far as emergencies are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the fundamental change has taken place over these years in terms of the availability of resources, I simply go to something more than ten years, or even less, where the only fire parks that existed professionally were those of the cities but some comarcal park, very few — I insist — just ten or fifteen years ago. And the groups of those rapid-intervention municipalities, which were later derived from the GHGs — which is a much more stable structure — but the reinforcement — especially in the last two years — of the troops and the civil protection material, through volunteer associations and more than 200 municipalities, which logically leads to a map of availability of emergency personnel very different from what was when the law of the year 2007 was passed, the Emergency Act. It is therefore necessary in this legislation to develop an amendment to this law that takes into account — I say — that status quo is very different; fortunately, because we have more effective, more medium and more professional than we had been ten-five years ago. And for all of this it's necessary to clear up a number of things before, it's necessary to define the management model of the county parks. I have to say — and this is not the first time in this Parliament — that we are still waiting for a clear feasibility document to change the management model. The Galician Union remains unopposed at all times and when the conditions already known for the maintenance of jobs and for not increasing public spending as a whole are met. I have to say that until now the documents that have been brought to us in no way... well, I mean, they don't even explain it well; in some case they don't even address these conditions that the Galician Union has always put from the beginning. So as soon as that becomes effective, that commitment of Members, you can close the new model; I insist, no opposition in that sense. And that's what it will allow, later on, is to draw up a fireman's regulation, which is a commitment that we have to fulfill, but when this model is defined, and a voluntary regulation. We'll also continue, I think, on the right path. In each agreement that is signed with Fegamp, a model that is still capable of improvement will be improved. I am referring to the GHGs, the supra-municipal emergency groups, which complement, in many cases in an indispensable way -- I would say in everyone -- the work of fire parks and provide a stable emergency structure -- which is what up to now was not in the places where there were no fire parks -- all over the territory of Greece. And, of course, we will also continue to strengthen, in collaboration with the municipalities — because, I remember, they are municipal associations; in many cases the role of the municipalities is fundamental — I am referring to groups of civil protection volunteers, over 220 received help from the Council of Galicia in recent years. It was necessary — and we always said — to improve the means of volunteer associations, the same word indicates, the minimum that can be done from administrations is sufficient means for those who use their time to train, and then in service, to do so in appropriate conditions. Well, I have to say that this is a task that corresponds to all administrations, and it has been assumed in these last two years in a very important story: more than 8 million euros devoted to the renewal of vehicles, emergency material... well, that all they themselves demanded was assumed by the Council of Galicia, and I think today the situation has little to do with what was here even ten-and-a-half years ago, with which there was three-four years ago. Reminding them, ladies and gentlemen, that according to the law of the year 2007 — drawn up during the bipartisan government — the competence of the Galician Emergency Board is simply coordination, it is neither media nor even the provision of economic resources. The Galician Union is doing it and is going to continue to do it, but in return it calls for coordination and involvement in the file in this legislation of the rest of the administrations. And coordination, of course, responds to construction; transfer that will begin — in fact, they have already started operations and will be verified in the first quarter of 2017 — of the Emergency Care Centre, with a new operation, new building and new technology in the city of the Road. We will convert the Road Emergency Care Centre, complemented by the Galaga Academy of Public Safety, so that there is a safe reference there throughout Spain with the latest technologies, with the latest training, with the incorporation, in addition — which we expect — of the rest bodies that have something to say in emergencies. And I'm referring specifically to state security forces and bodies. I think, moreover, time will immediately say that emergency management after this transfer will mark one before and one after — no doubt — for good and for good. And in a field -- and I often say it -- we pay attention to it only when it's really necessary, but attention has to be paid a lot earlier so that when it's necessary it can work without any problems. I also think the Galician Academy of Public Security will have important initiatives in this legislation. It will expand its formative offer, consolidating it, first — no doubt — as the reference centre for public security education for forces and bodies..., not only for local police — that if the system of examinations was centralized, that would be a very important milestone and would contribute to that objective even more than it is up to now, that was never under discussion — but what we want — and I think we can achieve in this legislation — is that the forces and security bodies of the State, the National Police and the Civil Guard also centralize the training they receive from their troops in Galicia at the Galician Academy of Public Security, which is at their disposal. Apart from becoming a reference centre for judicial training, in collaboration with the Judicial Council, for judges, for prosecutors, for lawyers, for forensics; and also, why not, ladies and gentlemen, make it a very important centre for training professionals — of course, always with public control — of private security. And also, as you have done at the Galaga School of Public Administration in recent years, start systematically imparting teleformation activities. It's possible, too, in certain matters at the Galician Academy of Public Safety and we want to do it in this legislation. And finally, we will also address in this legislation, this same year, a problem that is true, a circumstance that has been given with special impact last summer, once the decree has been amended at its time that fixed the minimum formation of aquatic rescuers. It demands the sector itself, and I believe that the demand is for all those — and I believe that we are virtually all — that we are convinced that it is necessary to have adequate training to develop such an important role as attention, especially during the summer season, in public areas, and also in private areas, for an emergency situation. It is true that a transitional situation has occurred last summer that is solved this year — and it is about to pass the decree that guarantees it — so that we prolong throughout the transitional period the possibility that rescuers who have already had professional qualifications may continue to develop their work. This makes it easier for them to continue working around 4,000 people who were already registered in this transitional log. And in addition, we're going to make it easier for PF graduates in physical and sports activities and INEF graduates to register in this register by completing a small course that would complete their training, and that this would also assume that 500 more people — in addition to 4,000 who are already registered in the register — could join these tasks in order to meet the greater demand that will undoubtedly occur as of June. As far as the local administration is concerned, over the next four years we will continue with the policy pursued so far, without any doubt: the offer of cooperation, which focuses on our competences, of course, which is what we must understand — and this is what we understand from the Vice President — the relationship with the local authorities in Greece. And in cooperation and in promoting their interests, well, they deal, without going further, with the orders that have just been published. All orders under this Vice-Presidentship have just been published last week, and now the deadline for applications is open. It's going to put EUR 14 million at the disposal of local authorities in Greece, both from the Environmental Cooperation Fund and from the other orders to perform small actions, it's true, but always very necessary. And we will also continue with the bet — which I think is clear — on the Local Cooperation Fund. Although it's a fund that is resident, it's true, in the Business Council, it's also true that in its negotiation and management it always participates, from the beginning, the Vice President. And I think we can say that we were able to overcome these years of crisis where the budget resources of the Galician Union were lower because they were lowering income, saying that it is a fund related to income and with a total index directly linked to whether or not the income of the Union was going up or down, saying that by lowering the income of the Union the fund was kept this fund and that it is now beginning to rise — this year, as you know, the Local Cooperation Fund is going up again — I think it is a clear demonstration of the Union's intention to continue to support the Greek Councils as well as economically. Therefore, cooperation will continue to be our great bet. As I say, you see in these orders, you see in the Local Cooperation Fund, you see that we are going to follow — you have started in the past legislation and you will continue in this legislation — by giving priority to shared management and cooperation in requests for help. It's being done in 3 out of 4 in some of them is not possible for technical and other reasons; the desirable would have been possible in its entirety. We will, of course, continue to encourage mergers of voluntary councils. And, once again, volunteers, in no case will the Galician Union participate in any political initiative that determines the mandatoryity of mergers. Yes, we will definitely continue to bet on the voluntary nature of mergers and encourage them. They leave with that additional fund that exists in the Local Cooperation Fund in case of a merger during this year and next. And with regard to cooperation, of course — and I say this again — we are firmly committed to the functioning of new cooperation formulas. And I am referring to the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, which was set up after the amendment of a law — approved by the unanimous amendment of this Parliament. The Vigo Metropolitan Area was very clear in its provisions, the Vigo Metropolitan Area established clear provisions regarding the integration of all the municipalities into transport. And, therefore, if these provisions are breached, the Vigo Metropolitan Area can't go into operation simply because it says a law that, I insist, we all approve unanimously. So I put here again in manifesto the intention to support, we could now be laying down potential powers to delegate to the Vigo Metropolitan Area, starting with emergencies, which was the one that had planned for the Galician Union. We have met with a legal impediment — and it has also been determined by the legal advice and so this resource has been put forward — that, once the law had been complied with by the mayor of Vigo and integrated into the metropolitan transport, immediately to Junta de Galicia — as it could not be less, once the law was complied with, I insist, passed by all — would withdraw that litigation-administrative resource. So I hope that you come in by reason, that you comply with the law and let us be able to say that this legislation is also the legislation of the Vigo Metropolitan Area. It will also be the legislating of the development of a new law of local administration in Galicia. The work practically — that is, done no, because there will have to be changes — will be largely elaborate. The Galician Local Administration Act is of the year 1997, it takes a change, I have said it many times, but it is also true that this amendment has to be accompanied by the provisions of the state legislation, which, as you know, is basic to a lot of matters that directly affect the local administration, and therefore also the local Galician Administration. You know the whole history of drafting and all the opinions expressed in this Parliament since the Government on certain provisions of the Law of Rationalization — so called, finally, to understand us — of the Basic Law of Local Regime, elaborated, or more widely modified, because it was an amendment to the previous law, by the Government of Spain. You know how lucky some of your provisions have been, both at the Constitutional Court and then at the political level; you know the need for you to elaborate, and here we have done it in Parliament, a law to solve some of the problems, and we qualify them as such, or at least malfunctions, derived from the provisions that came in that law; you know that this law has been approved in this House, and so bad it would not be later, practically, other autonomous communities — and not only governed by the People's Party — have reproduced it in their provisions, in some cases literally. What we are now waiting for is to change, now that, in addition to the Conference of Presidents, by the way — and I think it is a very successful decision — the reference to local funding has been introduced within the general discussion on the autonomic model. If, at last, this is also addressed, when it is defined in the new model of autonomous global financing and therefore also local, which will correspond in that new model to local entities, it will be time to modify the Local Administration Act of Galicia, if at the same time — as I hope, or at least I think it would be reasonable — some of the articles of the State Basic Law would be modified. I mean, we didn't agree to say it here, which is why we had to elaborate our law, but it's not just those articles that are modified by our law, but something else. If all this is done — and it could be done during this year — we would start working in parallel, already during the second half of the year we would resume the work of drafting this new Law of Local Administration of Galicia, and I hope that during 2018 — why not? — we will be able to have a law of Local Administration of Galicia, or a reform of the Law of Local Administration of Galicia, which incorporates all the things that have to be incorporated since 1997. And, of course, in that law, in this reform of the Local Administration Act, will be shielded, as we have told the President of the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, local cooperation as a basic criterion of relationship between the Galician Union and the local authorities of Galicia. This would mean the first of the axes I announced to them, the management of public services. The second, referred to — it is also the responsibility of this Vice-President — to the transparent and responsible administration, which is as much as to say — as I said at the outset in summary mode — that we will continue to work to ensure that the Administration of Galicia — the Administration, undoubtedly the most important in volume in our territory — is increasingly accessible, increasingly digital, in the sense of the incorporation of new technologies, and increasingly transparent, but also efficient and respectful of the resources to manage us. I don't think in recent years the time has been lost, much less. We have results on the table and now, in this legislation, we must continue to promote, increase and take advantage of the possibilities that have already been made. The first one, I think it's the endowment for the entire Galician board of an ethical code, which is already in force, which summarizes or puts it into a single document, black on white, the basic criteria of conduct and responsibility; I think it was a correct one and I think that from there you can do a lot of things in the Greek Public Administration, and also extend it to other administrations. I believe that a democratic impulse plan should be adopted, as we did in the previous legislation, which allowed for the adoption of five laws, simply by recalling them: the Government's Transparency Act, already in force; the Law on the Management of Legal Services, already in force; the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, already in force; the Law on the Board of Auditors, amended already in force; and the Law on the Popular Legislative Initiative and of citizen participation in the Galician Parliament. All these laws have formed a package that now lays the foundations for further work, and already works at another speed after doing so, I don't know if the hardest thing is, but it's the hardest thing to do and it can be slower, which is to approve legislative instruments; now you can start applying, we've already started, but you have to do a lot more in this legislation at another speed and with other conditions. Transparency portal, for example, which is already in force, we want to involve much more citizenship, we want to involve it not only in giving you facilities to make suggestions, for you to present complaints, for you to ask for information; we want you to be involved, too, in the drafting of the rules of the Galician Union from the beginning, with a prior public consultation procedure, to collect your opinion, to speak also with the most representative organizations — always there are organizations most affected by a rule— therefore, they think, from the beginning, that we try to agree with each other. A little similar to what is intended to be done from this Parliament, but much more generalized, since the normative production of the Council of Galicia through decrees and other kinds of instruments can be much more numerous, especially in some respects and, above all, in some areas especially technical. I say, a first step towards this was to adopt in 2016 the decree of attention to citizenship, which obliges us, if that is the word, to greater transparency, to greater transparency, to be more accessible, to process with more activity complaints and citizen suggestions, in collaboration with the People's Valedora, and therefore, as I said, we must continue to move forward. And now we're going to pass a decree that regulates the new system of managing the quality of the autonomic public sector, we don't have to give up, or much less, and being completely different organizations, it's true that there are meters and systems to persevere in the quality of services that are being provided, which can also be brought to the public administration, to really assess what targets are being achieved, amend them if it wasn't so and finally get the most efficient use of public resources. I mean, we're going to make a special impact on this legislation in everything that is the implementation of quality systems, we're going to make a general plan for improving the quality of public services. In the end, it's an audit of the quality of services that they provide, and we'll implement methods to measure it at all times and see if they're doing well and be able to change quickly what they weren't doing, and we're also aware that in the end this is addressed to people, officials, workers and workers in the Galician Union and also to people — that in the end they have to be the most important, to them we owe, to people who relate daily to the self-government. I believe that the Axillary Plan, which is almost finished, is already very few things left to end in this legislation, has -- it's much easier to say than to do, but it's done -- that 95% of the administrative procedures in the Galician Union can be started telematically, avoiding people who have to move to the physical paper in order to initiate a procedure. I believe that this is a work done, by the way, I have to say, by the employees of the Galician Union themselves without having to resort to external means, and that makes that effort — which can be seen in practice — really be done by making a more modern and more accessible administration to citizens. I'm saying, 95% of the procedures of the Galician Union today can be started telematically, through the electronic headquarters of the Galician Union. This will lead to a special impact — as I said earlier through the EGAP, when I was referring to gender violence — and we will continue to make a special impact on training activities so that officials can be the first to be aware of and use all the possibilities and potential we want to make of the electronic administration. I already say that with the Axillary Plan there has been an important training, and we have to continue to do it, because it would not have made sense to establish all these provisions and that then the so-called to apply them had no training needed. We will also end in this legislation the Plan for the Rationalization of Self-Government. It was a plan that began long ago, it is true that it is complex, it is true that after starting in Galicia other autonomous communities have followed this agenda too, and I believe that today the saving that is being produced annually is nearly 70 million euros, I think it is an important achievement, done, in addition, again, like the Achega Plan, by means — and I want to highlight it — of the Self-Government itself, without having to go to the cost of external consulting, without having to go to anyone who tells us something already known within the autonomous administration: saving 70 million euros. It can be said that in other autonomous communities the savings were greater; in fact, there are the controls being carried out from the Ministry of Finance. But to say that all this savings — which I insist is of the greatest ones — have been achieved by noting much less personal and, of course, that no one who had the character of staff did in the administration, seeing the massive redundancies that were made in other autonomous communities in order to obtain savings at times less, I think it is something that has to make us feel particularly proud. Modernized, axillized and thinned structures, not personal. This must be completed now, in this legislation, once this plan of rationalization of structures, a plan of reordinating the troops, and here we will become pioneers again, and we will begin -- as I think it should do -- by implementing this plan in the Vice-Presidentship of the Council of Galicia itself. This is something very simple, of course talked to the union representatives of the workers and workers, to analyze the current structures, to detect — and this is very linked to what I was referring to before the implementation of quality systems — whether the templates are really dimensioned, structured and dedicated to what the citizens really demand now or whether it is necessary to make changes. I think it's really necessary to do it, that's a plan to organize troops, it was much easier, probably, not to do it, that would remain all the same, but I think that we all owe ourselves to efficiency and efficiency, that for that we put citizens there and for that we entrust public tasks and public responsibilities to all who, in one way or another, we work in the administration. I insist that it be done, as it could not be otherwise, as it is obliged, in collaboration and in continuous contact with the union representatives, but the plan for the reorganization of troops will be carried out starting with the Vice-Presidentship — I hope that during this legislation — and in most of the autonomous administration. And also, finally, by putting an end to this -- and I'm finishing up already -- a subject that's not smaller, because we're finally talking about the comfort of the workers and workers of the Public Administration. We will begin in this legislation a two-year plan of works, a reform that I think is important of the San Caetano building itself, which has been operating for many years with architectural conditioners already at its time — probably at the time of certain solutions—disputable, but it is that time has shown that it was necessary to do for the convenience of workers and workers and also of people, of the thousands of people who daily attend St Caetano's dependencies. This reform, 6.4 million euros, we will start this year and we will act basically in thermal insulation, in the replacement of windows, in the realization of decks, things that are very necessary for a development of the working day, and I would say in comfort situations, but not in situations — simply — of what is required to perform a job anywhere and, of course, in a public dependence. We'll continue with the Public Procurement Improvement Plan. I believe that important things have been achieved, employment models for service contracts have already been approved, recruitment guides, the innovative public procurement guide, a sufficiently responsible public procurement plan. All this is done and now we have to continue to work, we will carry out new measures, we want, in this legislation, to establish — as I said before — a tracking system to see the results of the implementation of quality methods, we will close the process of modernising the Greek public procurement, definitely with new measures, to the part of that which I have pointed out to them, and which will also be adequately exposed at its time. In short, we want a more modern administration, not only by changing rules, but also -- there are rules that if we want the administration to be more agile, we need to change -- but also by changing the physical units where people work in the service of the Government of Wales, and also the means by which we have to equip them technologically to make all of this possible in this modernization plan, and also by acting on the templates through that process of reorganisation of troops. Many things have already been done. In my opinion, many more can be done, and our intention is to do them during this legislation. Finally, Mr President, I shall briefly refer to our willingness to continue to insist, and we shall return to the transfer plan in 2009. It's true that during these years, no transfers have occurred to any autonomous community. We will demand that they do so, we are doing it right now with AP-9, I claim here again the support — I believe it is fundamental — of all the House's groups for a claim that is fundamental to Galicia. Another thing is, later, the disposition, greater or lesser — we will continue to insist that it be complete — of the Central Government, but we must make claims, we will continue to do them, and I also believe that it is the way to get these transfers, which, I say, if they have not done well during these years, does not mean that we do not claim them again and get transfers and propose them, and for that nothing better than to resume — that I consider it fully valid, in most of their aspects — the schedule that was already proposed in 2009. We will also continue to make an effort as to Galicia's external action and the role of collaboration with Portugal. They are about to solve this call for POCEP which mobilises many millions of euros, cross-border cooperation, that advantage we have from a consolidated region -- I think that one more, if not the most consolidated one in all of Europe -- is an advantage that we have to continue to take advantage of, through the ACT, based in Vigo, through the Eurocitys, through all that cooperation mechanism that we have already stabilized and that gives us a very important, undoubtedly competitive advantage, all of this linked to Galicia's external action. In 2017, we're going to have a Welsh strategy of external action, so we've been working and consulting all those who have something to say. It is clear that Galicia, as part of Spain, has its own interests abroad, therefore, both in the economic and cultural fields, and in the development of external cooperation, a lot of issues that need to be addressed. I insist, being aware of our membership of the Spanish nation, it is also necessary to have that own perspective that will be possible through the Greek external action strategy, which will define priority countries, priority actions and therefore investment of resources as a priority. We will, too, continue to work in direct contact with NGOs as far as external cooperation itself is concerned. I will do it here again — as I have done on other occasions — thank you for the effort and understanding of the circumstances that have been exposed to you with regard to the downsizing of the resources that have been devoted to external cooperation all these years. In many other autonomous communities they disappeared directly, here there has been a reduction — it is true that substantial — compared to what has happened a few years ago, another thing is the execution of these terms. I have to say that almost 100% of the amounts devoted to external cooperation during these years have been executed; that's the merit of the Galician Union, but above all the NGOs. This year we were finally able to proceed — as in other matters that we consider fundamental — to make an increase, I think sensitive and important, 7.7% have increased the budgets of the Galician Union devoted to external cooperation, and we have just acquired the commitment to NGOs that from now on the percentage of the increase of the amounts devoted to external cooperation by the Galician Union is always equal, but whenever possible, and I hope that it will always be so, above the overall budgets of the Union. I think this is a fair correspondence to the work done all these years, to the difficult circumstances and to the fundamental work done in external cooperation. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the presentation of the global lines of work of the Vice-Presidentship and Council of Presidents, Public Administrations and Justice for the forthcoming legislation, for the legislation on which we are now, on which we are now, on which we are based, as you may have seen, much in the work done so far; in some cases there were projects that have been completed, projects that must continue and foundations that have sat to make new projects. All we want to do in this legislation, all we're going to try is the best way to succeed, and with the contributions and collaboration around the world. I therefore take advantage of this appearance, as I am sure, on the other hand, that my companions and companions will do so who will follow me from now on in the appearances that the Government will make, to expose the general lines. All this, I say, from different perspectives, from different political positions, because at the end of the day I think there are always points of encounter, and I express myself openly and sincerely willing to listen to everything constructively posed to the Council of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u60	Thank you very much, Vice President. We now begin the round of parliamentary groups. Mr Bará Torres has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u61	Good morning. Mr. Vice-President, the truth is that you have made an offer of dialogue, a call to collaboration and consensus to address the broad strategic lines of this legislation, but in addition to looking like a good speech, a bit of catechist, a speech, in addition to a rather flat, rather monotonous one, it seemed to us a speech, the truth, not credible. Little belief, because the truth is that we, as you say, try to value the facts more than the words, and the facts of past legislation and those of this legislation that we have just begun the truth, are that they do not make us very optimistic about this offer, this intended offer of dialogue, cooperation and consensus. The truth is you have made few announcements, there are few news in your speech, few plans, few challenges, few challenges and quite a lot of autobomb and self-recognition, in addition to, in general, continuing with regard to issues that have already been developed in other legislations. He referred to some matters such as, for example, the Administration of Justice, he referred to the investment forecasts in this regard in the field of infrastructures, but he did not refer to the dramatic reality that is being experienced in the Administration of Greek Justice, the situation of impeachment, the situation of collapse which is deriving from a very negative image of the Administration of Justice; a situation, in addition, that is denouncing all the agents related to the judicial administration, from trade unions to the professionals themselves of justice, who denounce lack of means, which denounce all the deficiencies that have to do with the digitization process, for example. I'm not going to read to you here all the complaints about it, but the allegations of errors and problems that we've already discussed on several occasions in the committees are there. And you didn't make any reference, by the way, to a question that you seem to care little about, which is the difficulty in using Greek in the Administration of Justice. Because very early technology, a lot of modernization, a lot of digitization, but there's more and more difficulties in using our own language, our national language in the Administration of Justice. As in the case of equality. There will be a debate on this issue in the afternoon and we will have time to discuss this issue, but everything we are discussing in the last few weeks, everything we are seeing, which is the most serious in reality, which makes it obvious is the narrow failure of the policies of equality and struggle against violence; hence we are talking about proposing a new pact, a pact both at the state level and at the Greek level, to fight — with, of course, many more means, with more political will, with more determination and with more involvement of the whole of society — this very serious situation. And we have already made a proposal, a concrete offer, to expect them to be sensitive to this issue to substantially increase the budgets of the Galician Union in this matter. We therefore look forward to their support in the debate that we will have in the afternoon to the motion put forward by the BNG. The truth is, you have a rather difficult situation, a complicated situation when you come here, because you have to do some sort of personality unfolding. You act as Doctor Jekyll in the morning, as Vice President of the Board, and as Mister Hyde in the afternoon, as provincial leader of the popular movement of Pontevedra province. You are responsible for public administration and institutional cooperation, particularly in the case of local administration, and what you are continually demonstrating — and your group — is the inability to agree with the deputies to agree on the transfer of competences and the provision of services, because they are also installed, against what you said in your intervention, in a confrontational strategy, are installed in the confrontation. And that's what we can see every day in the Pontevedra Deputy, because you haven't just assumed that the government of the Pontevedra Deputy changed in 2015, that there's a new government after eighty years of right-wing government, after eighty years there's a new government. They assume it at once and assume, instead of this montara opposition, a reasonable opposition that attempts to reach agreements. And do it, too, since the Government of the Union, because you are the vice president of the Union, you are the provincial president of the People's Party, and instead of holding meetings there in the Pontevedra Deputy to incite your pupils to this position of opposition montara, because it could well encourage other kinds of attitudes of dialogue. I will no longer repeat to you here what I have already said on other occasions about the Mafia campaigns that are taking place in the area of the Pontevedra Deputy by ending, precisely, with established policies, with policies of condoms and privileges established by governments of the People's Party and, in particular, Mr Louzán. And by the way, speaking of Louzán, I would like to ask you, since we have occasion, what is your situation as a militant of the People's Party and what is your working position in the Pontevedra Parliament. I don't know you know anything about this. What jobs are you doing there to charge €43,935 of the provincial deputy? I don't know if this has to do with the fact that you were also at Mr Louzán's advisory time when he was President of the Pontevedra Parliament and you were a Member in this Parliament. I don't know if there's anything there that has to do with it. You are also in a strategy of confrontation with cities, and this seems very serious, instead of dialogue and cooperation, you and many examples of this, you mentioned the case of the Vigo Metropolitan Area. I think it's a clear example of how instead of looking for agreements and consensus, both you and the mayor of Vigo, I don't know what interests are engaged in a strategy of confrontation and confrontation, and therefore we're not going anywhere. With those absurd fights, of course, people won't win anything. Just as we can speak in Pontevedra with the case of Ence-Elnosa, that you are supporting the interests of these companies against the positions of the government and most of Pontevedra. In the case of airports and other issues we have already been informed of the position of the parliamentary group: the position of the German Government against the municipal governments of many cities. Because you are set up in a pre-electoral strategy, they have already declared the campaign of the municipal elections of 2019, and therefore after the debate they had in 2015, they have already commanded Mr. Feijó that they had to regain the government of the cities and are dedicated to addressing the opposition from Parliament and from the Government, because they do not trust their municipal groups in those cities. That's what I think is a mistake, but above all, it's a sample of weakness. The scenario you have ahead is clear, in Pontevedra and Vigo I think they have nothing to do. Mrs. Lupe Murillo is not here, but she'd be alluding to it, since she's going to be the candidate, but I think by 2023. And instead, you see certain signs of weakness in the governments of the Coruña, Santiago and Ferrol, so there's the strategy of the shark, the attack, the attack on those governments. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Anyway, that way I think they're going wrong. With regard to local administration, he talks about the cooperation of the municipalities, but what we see every day in the Official Journal of Galicia is discretionary in the distribution of public funds. You've told us about the call for grants from your council, from your vice-presidentship, but there are many other calls to resolve your fingers, through agreements that favor the governments of the People's Party. He told us about reorganization and reform of the municipal structure, mergers of municipalities, voluntary mergers of municipalities. I told you at the budget committee: there was a merger in the first legislate in the province of Coruña, a merger in the second legislate in Pontevedra province, now we don't know if Lugo or Ourense, I don't know if we can make any progress about it. We seriously believe that they should, rather than advocate for this kind of merger, look for other real formulas of reorganization, of reorganization, of cooperation, such as metropolitan areas, but not boycotting them, as they are doing with Vigo's case, with the excuse of public transport, because that issue could be resolved by another way and continue ahead of the process of establishing this metropolitan area, of the communities or of the local consortia. Finally, you spoke to us with two or three brushes, but very little, and we'd like you to talk more about Galicia's external agenda, and also about the lack of negotiation of the transfer of competences. You said that in the last eight years there has been no transfer of competences in the case of Galicia and in the case of other communities as well, but that seems little to me. Of course, it's a zero balance, a balance that's at nothing, that's the void, and of course, with which we don't conform, and we think that, in addition to the beginning of this legislation, with the ghastly and lamentable spectacle that you gave with respect to the transfer of AP-9, the beginnings are not very optimistic. Of course, they have to have a more firm stance, more resoluteness and, above all, fulfilment of their commitments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u63	...of their electoral promises, because you promised to negotiate the transfer of competences in 2009 and 2013 and they didn't get anything. And as far as international foreign action is concerned, we're told an external strategy. But until now, what was no strategy? The reality is that it's all rhetorical, there's an external policy that is characterized by a lack of ambition, by a limited vision, by a subordination to the Madrid guidelines. He told us about the case in northern Portugal. I think you are, of course, very ambitious in establishing lines of cooperation and coordination...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u65	...with that area. We cannot limit ourselves only to the management of European funds, we must agree on another type of measures. Of course, we can't agree that the main measure is to promote the development of Galician companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u66	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u67	...to another area. In the next intervention we will have more opportunity to deepen on other topics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u68	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vice-President, Mr President-in-Office of the Presidency, the Statute of Autonomy of Galicia, which has just attained thirty-five years — as you celebrated this Saturday's highest institutional expression, this House — has shown to be a powerful tool for the development of Galicia's personality and entity, and of Galicia's social, economic, cultural and linguistic life. But the passage of this time and the new socio-economic circumstances resulting from the great recession that we have suffered and that we are suffering since 2008 demand a strong commitment from progressive policies of inclusion, equality and redistributive justice in the face of the neoliberal, individualist and deregulation policies that have been the source of this crisis and that are trying to consolidate in our western sphere, in the European Union, by breaking up any kind of social contract. I say this because your powers, Mr Vice-President, constitute a framework of budget policies and key administrative resources to provide a new response to citizenship. If we take a brief look at your government action in these areas and analyze the first steps of this new mandate, with the 2017 budget project, we can intuit or conclude at an entry that the citizenship of Greece is expected will not see a precise answer, in this sense, of its policies. In your appearance on February 12, 2013, in your previous legislation, at the beginning of the previous legislation, you pointed out the public services, the territorial review, the internal rigor in the administration and the use of resources coming from Europe as central objectives of your previous mandate. But the balance of the event can't be at all optimistic, so we think you really have to turn 180 degrees in your policies so that this new mandate really responds to Galicia's needs. And I want to begin, firstly, by analyzing equality policies, because of their different competences, I would almost dare to say that this is the most important challenge you have in this mandate. Despite the "nobles" of the People's Party for conciliation policies, they receive in the budget project we have seen, in what we are seeing in the budgetary debate, the same resources as in the 2016 budget; as are actions to promote and promote self-employment and female employment. And virtually equal resources for cases of special vulnerability are the same. A serious and firm commitment to equality policies requires not only sensitivity but resources, always insufficient. Greek women and society in general need not only formal commitments, but real commitments. We hope that the increase in support programmes for women victims of violence, which seems insufficient to us — and that is why we are calling for an increase of more than 2.5 million in the amendments in respect of the appropriations that were originally provided, we hope, as I say, that, being insufficient, they will once and for all contribute this tremendous crack. We've also been complaining, with various initiatives, about the creation of more judges of gender-based violence. Because we only have in Vigo and Coruña these judges, and that's why it seems fundamental to us to sink into this. As I say, there is a great need for cross-border measures that are strongly contributing to the work of a society on equality, we need them to be more decisively engaged in policies of impulse in the field of equality in school, in the rejection of subsidies, precisely, as we have already said more than once, in schools that are sex-segregated, programmes that promote shared ownership, for example, in the field of agricultural holdings, parental co-responsibility, in the legal guarantee of equitable presence in electoral lists or in balance in government and high administration bodies in the company as well. We advocate strengthening the necessary policies against trafficking, exploitation and prostitution. It's time, finally, please, for them to develop Law 2/2014 on LGTB, because it was a highly consensual law in this House and that, over the past two years, they haven't seen any regulatory development. We hope, in this respect, that the new parliamentary committee on equality will be able to evaluate and design decisively the comprehensive policies we need. It's urgent that this commission start working. In the matter of justice, after eight years of government, we would like to point out that nothing has been done in the promotion and development of Galicia's special civil law. No comment was made in his appearance in this respect. What about the promotion of Greek in justice, which is even being trapped by new software, both in Minerva, Lexnet or Fortune? The Civil Registry also presents this important problem. We don't know the alternatives to prison sentences, and the free legal justice system expects changes that require the sector and never arrive. As far as infrastructures are concerned, it seems that it will finally be put into effect, three years late, the judicial building of the tobacco factory in the Coruña. We are greatly surprised that it is in the first half of 2018 under way — I say, not in progress, but by providing legal public service — the Parda building. And we also find it very strange that Tui and Vigo's equipment might be on the dates you're commenting on, but we trust it to be so. In the area of local administration, we wanted to indicate or ask a number of questions. Because what are their plans for territorial plants, for municipal mergers? What is your proposal for the territorial map of Galicia? Because, for example, in a recent interview, the director general pointed out or spoke of 313 municipalities being excessive. In their election program for September 25th, they wrote that they would boost comarcas as singular spaces, which would draw up a comarcal map. Other? Are they going back? What are you going to do in this matter? Because the local Galician administration plant needs horizons, needs legal certainty, needs objectivity and needs public competition in aid. Or are they going to do as we once talked about the metropolitan areas, which are supported in the speeches, but then it turns out they either challenge them in the courts or tell their mayors not to support the new initiatives? In the metropolitan area, Mr. Vice-President, in urban policies, you never believed or believed. They contain only as electoral niches, when they are the main areas of socio-economic growth, they are the tractors of Galicia. Some further questions in local issues: what prospects are presented to us for this mandate on the local pact in Galicia and what will be the financing model they will defend in the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces? By changing the scope of institutional and parliamentary relations, there are two issues which we consider essential and which are recorded in the memory they have presented of the budgets. They're talking about sinking into self-government. I'd ask you if you're safe and on what subjects. The examples we're discussing these days put this noble commitment on trial: AP-9, AVE -- do you honestly think they've advanced something in Galicia's self-government? Back to their own electoral program, they spoke, apart from AP-9, of the Labour Inspectorate, of coastal management, inspection and fisheries surveillance or traffic as matters to be negotiated for a new transfer. What schedule are they scheduled for? In any case, speak first to the Bureau of Congress, it's not gonna be that these initiatives, like the AP-9, are going back and forth. And a fundamental question that points to institutional relations: to help define the revision of the territorial organization of the State from a global perspective — from you. What about the territorial sensitivity they've had from Madrid in recent years? As we move on to the emergency and interior chapter, very briefly we want to assess very positively the action of volunteers. What happens is that Galicia needs, without further delay, the professionalization of the sector, especially at the stage of intervention. They regulate this question, please, in the new emergency law of Galicia that they have announced. The empowerment of the adscribed police unit, reaching the 500 troops — already spoken and promised in 2013 — is an absolutely necessary minimum for it to be able to exercise important powers precisely in the protection of victims of gender-based violence, the environment, the investigation of fires or the fight against theft or illegal shellfishing. What happens is that the progressive loss of troops in the National Police Corps, in the Civil Guard and in the local police, in addition, is adding a growing risk to Galician security. This is a problem in the matter, in general, of inner forces and security bodies of the state to which I believe, Mr. Vice-President, that in the coming months we have to try to cut it down. In the field of external relations and with the European Union, first of all, we demand that the scope of the external action in Galicia be at the highest legislative level. We demand a law that regulates external action to achieve the greatest commitment in this House. And in this respect, we would like to ask two questions that I hope will also be of the utmost sensitivity for you. Please also ensure that in terms of cooperation and development, at least 0.2% — away from that anticipated 0.7% — with predictable and multi-year budget allocations. And it's also a fundamental question: do you have any provision for refugees? Because in these last few weeks of winter, unless I'm very wrong, the Galician Union has taken no initiative in this matter, in the area of refugees. In the area of administrative reform, there are three points that also agree or link with some of their comments. What are the indicators that will be used to measure the quality of public services for the cuts they have suffered? Secondly, what is the work plan for analysing and reordinating the 69 entities that are currently continuing to form the autonomic public sector over the 2010 SEC?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u71	Yes, Mr. President, now I'm done. And what are the measures that, in conjunction with the Business Council, will develop to recover the public employment destroyed during these years? Did they open the general negotiating tables? Finally, to conclude, Mr President, in the fight against fraud and corruption, which is a matter which all citizenship within the CIS barometers is considering as concern in the second place, we would like to know whether they really believe in the fight against corruption beyond the formal discourse. I remind you that, in the area of transparency, Galicia has fallen positions with regard to 2004. It's not good news. And for example, in this House they voted against regulating the protection of complainants of corruption cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u72	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u73	Good morning, comrades and comrades of the House. Mr President. Mr. Rueda, after listening to your intervention, what we've observed is, again, a legislation in which you repeat the same liturgy, repeat the same matters that we've been listening to for years. We didn't hear anything new. You come to this first plenary to present a catalogue of promises, promises that you already know before that you will not fulfill. But in addition to a legislation with the same promises, we also see a proposal lacking any kind of renewal, a exhausted government, which is no longer thought of for the new needs of the social majority and which really only serves to increase inequality among the people of our earth and which offers no opportunity or hope. None of the proposals you are proclaiming will get Galicia out of the penultimate position in Europe in job insecurity. And although it is true that this does not depend directly on you, in the case of the Public Service, it is your direct responsibility. And in the Greek public administrations, we observe that temporality is at 30% and that this data has not improved since 2016, with which, although very pleased with its administration management, because we see that there are large eves that should certainly be addressed. Anyway, we're going to structure En Marea's speech on its intervention on the various axes that you touched: transparency — which, of course, for us is absolutely fundamental — the public administration — respecting the quality of the administration as regards the provision of services to citizenship —, violence, justice, emergencies and self-government. Mr. Rueda, allow me to give you an account of his principal evasiveness and contradictions. As for what he said is open to dialogue, listening to the suggestions of the opposition, because we are going to do so, by appealing to that dialogue, which you always have as a flag, between legislative and executive. It's a bit contradictory for them to talk about transparency and dialogue when they're constantly refusing to give fundamental information to the groups of this House. For example, we'd like to ask him several questions. On the one hand, where is the information on the health agreement of the penitentiary institutions? Where are the documents on Martial Golden? Where is the documentation you denied to the Cash Board? The government has evaluated a process that has been hidden with several officials already in jail, and I'd like to hear you say that you trust administration staff so much to do audits. I fully agree that they are the best to ask these kinds of questions. Well, maybe it'd be nice if I had the staff in charge of really independent audits and they didn't outsource them into something as vital as the boxes. And we would also like to ask you where is the essential investigation commission for the English case. Because even today the victims are in Brussels asking for what the German Government denies here, which is information, transparency, explanations and also some other excuse, which would not be wrong. They also assume transparency, but they don't practice it. A few days ago, the press explained the slow transparency of the board to say that it's not known if they have black cards. The answer, if you don't know it, is not that there are no black cards. What's said is that the Business Council says they haven't had them since 2009, and the rest of the bodies on board don't have that information. Won't Junta know if she's got black cards? Does the counselor not know if they exist? We've been in the process for seven months, the intervention of the People's Valedora, and so far, you don't seem to know. And I hope in the reply, don't talk to me about any partner's father or anything that has nothing to do with him, and he's ready to talk about what's going on here in Galicia. Because we already know the tendency that they want to divert attention. [[Murmurs.]] So, let's talk about you. I'm in good time because I already know them. You also spoke of ethical code, which is now very modern. And then I want to ask you, In Marea, I want to ask you, if the Galician Union applies this ethical code, for example, to Vega Sicilia. It's interesting to know. It is clear that it costs the board to be transparent, and let's also hope that it will be easier to know the agreements between Development and the Union in the bilateral AP-9 commission, and that they appear registered as required by the Greek legislation. In addition, transparency would be desirable as well, and that they would conceal a little less in that absence of regeneration, although they are much later on with us, with the new political movements, because we know it's a clumsy thing that they have to do a little facial wash to satisfy the obvious and sensible claims of citizenship in this matter. They must not ignore that people want to know what the government is doing and want to control it, because it's the logic. It is easy to see how that effective managing air has become just a campaign slogan when we check that, through the back door, funds were transferred to help families who did not have to pay for the light on matters as supportive as the demand for Corcoesto mine—EUR.140 million—. Then they also urgently contracted studies and research on investment plans and programmes in advertising campaigns to disseminate content, for 125,000 euros, for a very commendable reason, which is employment. But the serious thing about this is that, if it's such a laudable reason, why are these dark departures made through the back door, while these families are left with these serious problems and no light? Propaganda says they helped 40,000 homes, and it's actually that they've been reduced to just 5,000 for this aid. And to prove that the game is made from behind Galicia, so, look, you issued on September 22, 2016 a certification in which you stated, in your capacity as Secretary of the Board of Trustees, that the Government of Greece had just adopted the game change document. Mr. Feijóo also signed it, and it was incorporated into that month's budget adjustment relationship. Interestingly, that agreement is not made public or moved to the media, as usual. We'd like to know why. If there's nothing weird about this shift, we'd like to know why we don't know about change. What's obvious is that it's not a feature of your Government that transparency. They do good laws many times, I don't say no. The problem is to execute them and do them in practice, and it's easier for you, for example, to defend Mr. Louzán's salary, even though your judicial affairs are pending. But we see that later, for other matters, they're more papist than the pope. That's their idea of government, of fulfilling work and being transparent. Also about gender violence, it's true that we have a Galego Observatory of Gender Violence, but it's not enough. And this scourge that we have suffered and so severe that at the beginning of 2017, there are already four women killed, cases of violence and harassment every day. So from En Marea we want this observatory to stop being a headline in the press and be endowed with the means to really combat macho violence in all areas of our society, and, above all, to affect prevention, awareness and example. Because it's very hard for you to talk about equality here when you're still holding a gentleman in your ranks like the President of the House of Ourense, Baltar. It's very hypocritical that they talk to us about equality with this gentleman by camping his broads while we know that his way of acting is to do work interviews in the hotel rooms. So, it's quite contradictory. Let's not say any more about the specialized group of autonomic police gender violence. Where is it and how does this group work? How many formed agents do we have? It's very good to create police in gender-based violence, in macho violence, but you also know, Mr. Rueda, that, for example, in a neighborhood like Salnés there is only one patrol of the National Police active at night, that on many occasions can't come to the emergency calls of the women of the district. And not because they lack preparation, but because they only have two agents for this mission. So this is what shows what their real vocation is to really manage protection for women. Also, with respect to justice, his priorities included the beginning of the past legislation on the modernization of justice. But today Lexnet doesn't work properly and we still can't count on the electronic file, or zero paper, in justice. From In Marea we also demand the necessary claim to equip new judges of the social club Lugo, Santiago or Vigo, and also to help the implementation of an anti-corruption prosecutor's office in Galicia, as the senior prosecutor of Galicia, Fernando Suanzes, or the president of the Progressive Tax Union, Álvaro García Ortiz. Even though we already know what your real commitment to corruption is. Because, as the trending topic the People's Party has in corruption, it's normal to have big evasa with this. And that's how we are. It also promised coordination and improvement of Galician emergencies. What is the situation today? Can you speak of coordination and effectiveness in Galician emergencies with examples such as Fandicosta? We think no, we think it's an aberration that they're doing business with fire and endangering the lives of so many people, and that they're also privatizing these services to give businesses money at the expense of something so serious for our land as well as for many people who live in the territories and for people who have to provide the services. And we're going to end their failures, because we're going to talk about self-government as well. You clearly portray the failure of the PP's self-government with regard to Galicia's competences. When they attacked the Bipartite because they were unable to reach transfers to our land, because that government, to which we could criticize many things, was able to reach 11 transfers to Galicia. Where's your result? I'm looking for skills! He just said, of course, that no transfer has been made in any other community in recent years. Well, often comfort! So, when you're not able to do something, you're already satisfied because the others can't do it. And then it's okay, we don't do anything anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u75	Yes, I'm done. In short, Mr. Rueda, today is playing a little of the role of failure, inaction, of the continuity of past legislation, of the total absence of modernity and commitment. And what remains of him, then, will be the role of leaving Galicia constantly failing to keep its promises and also to the maximum of inequality and social injustice. But you're still number two, after Mr. Feijóo, who, if one day you're encouraged to jump, as we know, to Madrid, may as well be the dolphin made come true at last. But well, don't trust yourself, because your boss has already warned that the past didn't count either, so, well, let's wish him luck anyway and do his best for the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Well, Mr Vice-President, first of all, I would like to thank you for your intervention and your absolutely transparent presentation, which is going to be your work plan for the next four years, assuming very important commitments, which I am sure you will fulfill, as you have done on previous occasions, bad that you do despite some and do not want to recognize it; some commitments, Mr Vice-President, that you do not intend to meet unilaterally. We welcome the fact that in this regard he has offered consensus and an attitude of dialogue, involving all groups in the House of Objectives that he has set out and the challenges his department has for the coming years, especially in the area of gender equality and violence, conciliation, co-responsibility, local administration and even emergency, with that new law that will soon bring us to the House. Objectives that I believe we share all that we are part of this Parliament, such as improving public services or achieving an accessible, transparent and more efficient administration. We share with you the need to continue to move forward in the great challenges that mark us justice in the field of judicial infrastructure, in the achievement of the new judicial office and in the incorporation of new technologies, in order to achieve the goal of zero paper, as well as to have more efficient and agile justice. Mr Bará, I recommend you visit the legal portal lex.gal, because since we have that legal portal, it is much easier to incorporate the use of Greek into the realm of justice. It's not more difficult every day. It's easier every day. We also agree, Mr Vice-President, on mediation. We share with you the need to continue to bet on this procedure, which has achieved magnificent results in the resolution of conflicts. And in the matter of equality, we also feel that the wager you and your department are making for equal education. It seems fundamental that we should start with the earliest ages if we want to avoid macho, violent attitudes, and avoid men's predominance over women, especially when we are seeing more cases of teenagers and girls and college boys with unbearable rates of gender violence in our youth. But, in addition to prevention, another fundamental pier, Mr. Vice-President, is the attention, in which you do not spare resources or tools, to help victims; women who find themselves in a situation of special vulnerability and who often only rely on the help of the Administration. And that's our responsibility, to bring to them all the material and personal resources they need to feel accompanied at all times, from the maintenance of the centers -- now, Mrs Vilán -- from the maintenance of the information centres to the woman, to the periodic aid for victims, which this year increases by 61%. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Villoslada said that equality policies were the most important challenge, and that commitments with equality needed not only sensitivity but also commitments. Mr. Villoslada, like you would be more unbelievable if where they govern these commitments, because, of course, I believe that you, in general, all opposition groups, are disabled to speak here on equality and to tell the Vice President of the Board here that he does not comply with equality policies. Because it's surprising that you come here to that when you're closing the information center to the woman in Pontecaldelas. I know that for some this is hard, it's hard, because it's a candy. [[Murmurs.]] I know, Mrs. Rodil. But, look, you're the one where women run no women, they eliminate services of proximity and specialized care, and they also justify them. Because, look, I'm going to give you an example of what the Socialist Party used to be. On 19 August 2011, Ms. Carmen Cajide presented an initiative and said: "The Socialist Parliamentary Group believes that the CIS cannot be the object of any saving measure, because it is an absolutely essential service as long as the woman continues to be a victim of violence or any form of discrimination, as is currently happening." Well, what's changed, Mrs Vilán? What's changed? Look, I'm going to tell you a story, because I know you like it very much. Look, Town Hall of Ponte Caldelas, December 23, 2015, evening. The psychologist from the information center to the woman, fired by the Socialist and Nationalist Government, picked up her things because on 22nd she had finished her contract. And a lady to whom we can call Lola, Mrs. Vilán, we can call Lola, because she is a victim of ill-treatment, from the Town Hall of Ponte Caldelas, who enters the door crying inconsolated and asks for help from the psychologist of the information center to the woman, who says she can't attend because she no longer has a contract. Unbelievable, Lola, says, "You can't do this to me, you have to take care of me." So the psychologist says, "Let's talk to the mayor and see what solution we can find." Because, of course, the mayor was also responsible for that psychologist and that information center couldn't attend to Lola. And you know what the mayor did? The mayor took the lady and said, "Don't worry, I'll join you. Tell me." Well, tell me, it's a series that starts in the 1960s, so when the problems in the town solved the cure, the doctor, the teacher or the mayor. You've just traced the policies of equality fifty years ago in the 21st century. And you have just replaced the specialized care for victims of gender-based violence by telling me about the mayor of Ponte Caldelas. [[Applause]] And it also replaces her with a team of specialized lawyers, who I'm also going to tell them how those lawyers think. Well, look, the council attorney, when she went to the social court to defend the dismissal of these workers, do you know what she told the judge? "Well, it's just that this equality thing is the modern inventions of the Union." Well, the judge turned his head and said, "I don't want to hear anything else." So that's the specialty that you now incorporate into the municipalities where you rule. And all this with the complicity, and being necessary co-operative, of the Galego Nationalist Block, which today presents an initiative with a pact against gender-based violence; a pact against gender-based violence while closing the doors of their parliamentary groups to whom they want to talk about equality. Because you know that women's information center women's associations have asked them to attend. And you're the only group in this House who didn't just receive them, but they didn't even respond to that request. And while the President of the House is making an effort to open Parliament up to citizenship, so that ordinary people can come in here, you shut the doors of your parliamentary groups... laugh a lot, Mrs. Santos, which is very funny, this is very funny. [[Murmurs.]] It seems very funny to you. I know that the philosophy of the Tides of Podemos or Podemos of the Tides... No, well, today they've let us talk and then we're not talking about the Tides of Podemos. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Pontón, in July 2010, when she hoped that the Galician People's Party would close the information centres to the woman, she presented a battery of absolutely angry and completely indignant initiatives, because the information centres could not be closed to the woman. And he said, "The BNG Parliamentary Group considers the attempt to dismantle women's information centres very serious, so we ask the Board to rectify it." If you send something to the BNG, Mrs. Pontón, have them rectified at the Town Hall of Ponte Caldelas, because if you don't, you're being complicit in that situation. But you're the only one who defends is low cost feminism, Chinese bazaar feminism, which is useless, for nothing. They leave the rural women alone. [[Applause]] Don't come here later to propose a pact for gender-based violence when you're not able to rule that. And Mrs. Carmela Silva, another... No, no, it scandalises, that, when he came here to present the budgets of the MP, he didn't assume the political criticisms that were made to him and said he was criticized because he was a woman. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Feminist of leafy!, ma'am, feminist of leafy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Pontón, the important thing is not to be the first female candidate for the presidency of the Galician Council, the important thing is that these women who arrive at representation positions defend women's rights. And if Mrs. Carmela Silva... look, tell her group to let her talk, because it's very difficult... of course, I understand, but tell Mr. Villoslada to turn him on. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I debate delighted with you, delighted! [[Murmurs.]] We can talk about a lot of things, in addition. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, well, this Ponte Caldelas Town Hall isn't a candy. This is a red line that cannot happen. And if you pass this red line, if you stand up for what the mayor of the "tell me" and "of the modern things of the board," you don't deserve to talk about equality, because they don't have any kind of credibility. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Bará, look, I understand you're a rookie and you're wrong about your appearance. Because, of course, he thought he was the president of the Pontevedra People's Party. No, he's Vice President of the Board. And, look, I, after listening to you, understand why you are the ideologist of the Cuban mojitos of the Bipartite era. [[Murmurs.]] I know. [[Strong murmurers.]] Now I understand everything, Mr Bará. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, when you're talking about eighty years of PP government... no, look, forty years of franchise dictatorship and forty years of democratic government. And we are very proud that there is democracy in Spain and Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u79	I know you'd be delighted that we had more frank attitudes, but, look, no, you're constantly raising Franco and still have fewer Members. [[Murmurs.]] Look at you! [[Applause]] Look, instead of worrying about Mr. Louzan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u80	Silence! And end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u81	...is concerned about the three defendants in the government of the Pontevedra Parliament that you support. He's worried about it instead of worrying about the others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u83	Mrs. Santos, you came here to ask the vice president...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u84	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u85	...with questions from Parliament. And, look, talk about black having a Senate spokesperson who is an expert, who already calls Ramón "Espiblack," having the senate spokesman who is an expert in black... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u86	Thank you, ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u87	...that he is an expert in speculation in houses of official protection, just like Mr. Pablo Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u89	Mr Echenique has a precarious job.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u91	In the matter of "black scholarships" they have Mr. Erregón. But you come here to teach us nothing! [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u93	Mrs. Santos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u95	...you're not qualified to teach anything. [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u96	Thank you. Replica by the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bará, you, who is the most entertaining Member of the House with difference, says you have not understood, that you have not believed my consensus because I spoke to you in a dull tone and I also speak as a catechist. [[Murmurs.]] You'll know how catechists speak, I have no idea. You must know quite well and that's why you make comparisons. [[Laughter]] The bad thing is, I wanted you to compare better what we said we were going to do in the past legislation, what we did and what we're going to do now. [[Murmurs.]] Because then I'd better understand better than this. Tell me we're continuing. Man, we won the elections! So, of course, winning elections is what you have. There are things that must be done, they continue to be done and done afterwards, Mr Bará. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] And then, from there, in the time you spent talking about my appearance, which I have to say was very little... because you came here -- I wasn't, now you're -- promoting... I don't know what interest you have in being Mrs. Murillo candidate of the PP in the municipal elections. You're very interested. I think it's not the first time I've ever talked about it. That's what we've done in the People's Party. Maybe you don't have any problems in the Galician Nationalist Block and then they're waiting to see what we're all doing. I guess that'll be it. I suppose they're already thinking, they say, "No, they have nothing to do in Vigo and Pontevedra." Home, you in Vigo are wonderful. If we don't have anything to do, what will BNG have to do in Vigo? [[Laughter]] Just like he says, "In the metropolitan area he gets profiled." They have no opinion in the metropolitan area. Among other things they can't think of, they don't have anyone in the county, in a town hall of 27 concelers. There's no one from the BNG. Perhaps it's because of this kind of thing, because it's being profiled, instead of talking... I'm sorry, because, instead, Mr. Villoslada — which I have to thank, of course, for your correct tone, I think it's like things have to be—it won't give me time to say it, because it was really part of my appearance and I think it addressed everything. You came to bring me here the message of Mr Mosquera, of the MP... you are a Member in this House. Yes, I am the president of the People's Party and you are an autonomous Member, and therefore is not in the Deputy. Nor is it, in my opinion — nor should you, you will know what is going on in the Block — at Mr Mosquera's orders to, whenever you have the opportunity to talk to me, put Mr Mosquera's errands — I don't know what the mobs are, I don't know what the discussions are, I don't know what... we're going to talk about the Council's issues! Try it, you'll see how you can. Mr. Mosquera leaves you at the deputation with Mrs. Carmela Silva, that they don't discuss anything. No, when they come here, Mrs. Carmela Silva has some excellent ways. I'm the one who'll provoke it there. She doesn't come here to say the things I said in attendance. But I already tell you that shouldn't be things... I take them out because you pull them out every time you see me. Of course, he has very little time left and he has to overdo it, and say justice is a huge disaster!, a disaster!, and that video conferences don't work well. [[Murmurs.]] It was in the press that the video conferences dropped. Yes, if you read more than the headlines would read that they fall precisely because on the other side they're not able to connect to the technological level that has the video conferencing of Galician Union. That's the big problem in many video conferences. [[Murmurs.]] But that doesn't matter to you, you have to paint here -- that's what I was saying here -- something dantesque, huge deficiencies... Look, I told you in my speech -- and I said it many times throughout the past legislation -- that we are pioneers in the implementation of Lexnet -- known all over the world -- in the implementation of the judicial viewer -- recognized all over the world, and also by Mrs Vilán, who is nodding right now -- in the eFidelius program, in videoconferences, in a lot of things. Man, can things fail? Obviously, but we're at the head of a lot of... and it's not triumphalism, it's just to recognize what is being done and not to come here proposing a dantesque panorama. And besides, I'm telling you something else. If it was so bad, in budget amendments, why don't you move a single euro to dedicate it to justice? What's wrong? Is it not worth it or is everything okay? Because you don't put a single euro in the games of justice, thinking that's better or worse. No, no, I leave it like this and then I come here and say it's all a disaster, that it's all dantesque, that it's a catastrophe. But the budgets dedicated to Galician Union to justice I suppose they'll be fine, because, if not, you would have something to say in the amendments. I'll tell you a little more. It's just that the theme of MPs, come here and talk about the issues of MPs, whether I'm president of the People's Party or not... of course I'm president of the People's Party and vice president of Galicia. I already have three laws in the Government of Galicia because people choose us. That might seem better or worse, but that's what there is, Mr. Bará. And probably because we're serious about things when we're in Parliament and we're trying to do government things, probably because of that, we're here for the third time. And if that seems to you to continue... yes, listen, here we go. But there were a few elections just a short time ago and people put us there. And the rest, really, Mr. Mosquera's message... I believe that Mr. Mosquera has enough capacity, enough capacity, to give us directly. I don't know why you're always trying to come here to help him. Mr. Villoslada, I really appreciate your tone, I appreciate your extension. And I'm going to try to answer everything that gave me time to point. He said, "There must be more trials." We are absolutely willing with the judges who allow Galicia to say yes. Other autonomous communities said no, several. And that's why, when they were brought to trial, Galicia came to a number of trials, apart from those that corresponded to us, those that corresponded to other autonomous communities that gave up. Let's just keep going. I guess now, so I've heard at some sectoral conference, it won't be like that. Everyone who used to say they didn't want them now says they want the better. We continue as always. We will try to assume those that we can afford, and, in our opinion, being justice — an essential public service, we can afford all those who offer us. That is whether — and I am referring to some other intervention in that sense — those who are at every moment are those who determine themselves — and I always say so — in agreement with the High Court of Justice on the basis of the workloads. We can't use another criterion. I know that sometimes it would be easy, to avoid criticism or to avoid any other kind of comment, to fall into saying "this yes and this no." But the workloads are what they are, and I suppose everyone will agree that this is the best way to do it and, of course, the fairest, now that we're talking about justice. Tell me that you have founded hopes that the bet I have manifested, and that we have always manifested since the Government of Galicia, for the promotion of equality to be real. I can assure you it is. We'll either sign it or not, but we'll try. I turn him into a passive prayer, and of course I think you have a socialist mayor at Ponte Caldelas with respect to what I think I'm just going to add to what Mrs. Prado said. But there the bet is not real, it's not real at all. So, let the bet be real to all and not just to Galician Union. And also tell me if we refuse — speaking of equality — subsidies to sex-segregated centres. Listen, there's one in Vigo. I only went twice and twice found his mayor, who was there. So let's see if we're consistent, too, listen. We like it or we don't like it, and they support it or they don't support it. We don't have any problems, but it seems that some very prominent members of your party neither. Let's see if we're clear on that and we're consistent and we have a party opinion; if we don't, it's impossible to agree on fundamental things. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And whenever I name the mayor of Vigo, Mr. Losada is there. Mr. Losada, I'm going to name it again, let me talk 'cause if I don't, I'm going to get nervous throughout the show. [[Murmurs.]] Relax a little. I'm going to talk from here, from the rostrum, despite the name of the mayor of Vigo. I'm going to be objective and I know that, whatever you say, you're going to jump out of the chair on a number of occasions. [[Murmurs.]] As far as the Civil Rights Commission is concerned, I agree, Mr Villosalada, that we must close the work of this committee. Even if you don't have a tangible result, you have to close, because it's a commission that's been opened. It is true that it was in the face of the disagreement that I felt — and not only myself — among the members of that committee, that they were very sensitive subjects, that we talked about the change in the system of regulation of the economic-marrimonial regime, that we talked about the shared custody and other issues, that we would probably have to address them, but these covered the operation of that committee at the end. And so my intention in this legislation is to get it back again this year and give them a result of these jobs, whatever they are. I appreciate the confidence we've got to finish the infrastructure. He says he has doubts about the deadlines. Well, look, this was a lot of trouble. First we had to agree with the municipalities of all political colors. And this, you know as well as I do, is not easy. He worked in the Town Hall of Coruña and knows all the iter that had this and the difficulties that had to achieve that assignment. In the end, the truth is that a building is about to be finished which makes sense to that whole area, which was degrading, and from now on it's going to go all the other way. By the way, finally, since this is about errands -- you were talking about now getting along very well with the municipal government of the Coruña -- to see if they tell you if they ever decide what they want to do with those diaphanous spaces, which is what is missing just to finish that work. There are 3,000 square feet at the disposal of the government of the Tide of the Crown and today no one knows there — those who are in the work day by day, of course, do not know what they will do. I'm saying this because, as they are now in that spirit of collaboration... or, if not, you can give him the message too, because it's 3,000 square meters paid by the Galician Council with which the Tide Government has no idea what he wants to do. And then we talked about waste and resource planning. And the local government told me that the local administration director said in an interview that the number of municipalities seemed excessive. Man, at this point I suppose that can't surprise anyone. So why are we saying that we think mergers are good? I insist, voluntary mergers, in no other case, voluntary mergers. I don't know if you were telling me or being the representative of En Marea -- it seems to me that you were -- that there were already two provinces and that are now playing in another province. Listen, whatever you touch, you'll say it's a disaster, it can't be, they'll try to challenge it and all the difficulties in the world will have to go through so that the mergers go a little further. But I'm glad that in Galicia we are the first on this subject. And I'm glad that you're going slowly to see and show up experts — I suppose you'll respect — saying that this is the way — I insist, whenever I volunteer. So you can't be surprised that the director of local administration, myself or anyone speaking on behalf of the Government of Galician Union, would say that the number of municipalities could be reduced — on a voluntary basis, I insist. As for the march of the local pact, we have just had a meeting between the president of the Galician Union and the president of the Fegamp. I attended and there they posed very interesting things upon the table that will be done. Some of them I've already pointed them out, because they depend on this vice president, like everything that has to do with local cops. I think it's an important subject. You didn't give him any importance, you didn't even mention it, but I think, if we could do that, we're solving a problem that has many municipalities about the restructuring and reorganisation of local police. It was planned to continue to see the issue of emergencies — which they did refer to — about completing the transfer of health centres, about an approach to the maintenance of conservatories, drug addiction centers, about a lot of things, about a pact for water. So I think the local pact is quite alive, and I would like that consensus that the president of Fegamp has expressed remains throughout this legislation. With regard to the financing model, what is the value of the local administration? For the same as for the Autonomous Community, a model that takes into account the actual costs and that really realizes those who have to allocate resources that are not the same from a municipality to provide services when it has many nuclei of population than from a municipality in Castela and León that has all the concentrated population and a much simpler orography, and at best — or not — because Castile and León has our problem — less aged. About the transfers, of what everyone has talked about, I'm going to say, hey, this isn't easy, we're going to keep complaining, so it doesn't look good what they said about AP-9 that it was a posture... Hey!, we want to continue taking steps, we will demand that AP-9 be transferred again, as Galicia claims, that it be transferring what should be transferred. And there we wait for your support, and for the rest of the transfers. Because, indeed, there has been no transfer, neither to us nor to anyone, in the last five years. But before that, when there was already the Government of Unity in 2009 and there was still Mr. Zapatero, for us there was no transfer, and we asked for them. That's why we're talking about restarting the 2009 agenda. And it turns out that Catalonia, the Basque Country and some other community that ruled the Socialist Party were still giving them transfers. So this is a lot of political negotiation, but it's also available to both sides. So I'm not setting any examples. Because the Bipartite gave them transfers, yes, well, but we could see the quality of those transfers, because here we put the number. Because if the Castle of Monterrey, with all due respect, is a transfer to oppose the Labour Inspectorate that was given to the Basque Country while we were denied, so we're not talking about the same parameters. We're all going to complain! And we'll see the disposition of all sides. Galicia doesn't marry anyone here, there's no political color. We will ask for transfers, as an autonomous community, to interest you, whoever is in government, before the Government of the Socialist Party and now with the Government of the People's Party. As for the external action, we're going to make, Mr. Villoslada, a strategy. You claim a law. Well, it's questionable whether it should be a law or not, I think what we have to have is a strategy in any case, and you have to put it into effect as soon as possible. And that's why I'm making a collaborative offer again. As for external cooperation, I have already explained to you that there are many autonomous communities, some governed by the Socialist Party, which directly ended up with the money devoted to external cooperation, saying that, if you could do it, you would have to do it from the state level. We've kept an amount, I think not less in the toughest times of the budget, about 4 million euros, and now we're going to keep increasing it. We therefore firmly believe in external cooperation. As far as I'm concerned — and I'm going to read things, I'm telling you, I've pointed out — about the police unit, which I'm also referring to, I think that everyone who intervened, because it was something that was obliged to do, was necessary. The police unit, the autonomic police, had to be involved, because it's essential, in the fight against gender violence. There is a unit of 14 troops, which is supported up to 50 more when necessary, and which has now been entrusted with the protection of 134 women. And so these protection orders can still extend further as this activity unfolds, and we certainly want to continue in that old age. But for that, apart from strengthening the media, it also strengthens the number of troops, which we will also ask for. By the way, what we achieved when the Ministry of the Interior had more difficulties, ruling the People's Party. The Bipartite asked for it, and in a lot of cases they didn't. With respect to the plan for rationalization of the parallel administration, I was told what happens to the organisms that survive. Listen! they've all been audited, many of them to disappear and others to stay because they've remembered that they needed to stay, but with improvement measures in all cases, that the savings of 70 million euros, to which you didn't devote much attention either, it leaves exactly that, I insist, not to put people out but to optimize, reduce rentals and operating procedures, which in the end allow those savings. He was talking to me about the classification of transparency. Yes, indeed, we have lowered our positions in that classification. At the OCU, we have third parties, with which, at last, we are harmonizing everything and we are left with over 90 points over 100, which I think is a qualification that forces us to continue to improve but that forces us to think that something will be doing well. Mrs. Santos, I was told that I repeat myself a lot in the things I say. In the end, I'm going to tell you that I'd like to make things clear in this House; at least a small example of the commitments made today as four years ago in an appearance and the things that are fulfilled, even if it has to be repeated, that is, the things that one commits to as government and the things that are fulfilled. Of course, then you have to remember; especially if you say there's nothing about it when there is. So if you repeat it is to remember that the commitments are being met, according to that; if you continue to say — thanks to the fact that people, as you say, the people of Greece, when you voted freely and democratically, decided to increase our support and say again that we were here — that we should continue projects, for yes. As Mr Bará told me, I also tell you. Is that continuity? Yeah, but you keep going because people want it. That's to say that it's a exhausted government a government that just won the elections three months ago, Mrs. Santos, increasing the support, repeating the only absolute majority that exists throughout the Spanish state, saying that it's an exhausted government that people neither follow nor listen and that is not going to solve anything, what do you want me to tell you? Not for me, but for the people who have just supported us, a percentage I think sensitively - and I say "sensitively" not to say anything else - above the people who have supported you, as legitimate as the people who have supported us but much less. So to say it's a exhausted government that doesn't care for people I think it's a lot to say. Then tell me, speaking of transparency, that we've changed our games to dark. Then how did you find out? What happened, that one day he was going down the street and a gentleman told him in his ear? You've learned why this is sent to Parliament and published what is that from the exchange of games to the dark? That wasn't done before, Mrs. Santos. You've been here a little while, but before -- and when I say "before" it's before we get to the government -- that wasn't done. We sent it, we sent all game changes. Actually, it's a deal, and when you take it on the board of the board, you come here and you post it. And the people who look at the newsletters find out. I don't know if you found out because you read it in the paper, which you also find out — and I think it's very good — or because you saw it directly. But they're, they're always posted. So, what's that from black-to-dark games? Home! I think that you must be at least serious, Mrs. Santos. Because if we start saying these things... You don't do things hidden away at all, and all you do is comply with the rules. You send yourself to the sites required and required to be able to publish it and you know it. From the Male Violence Observatory, ask me to be effective. We'll do our best. You asked for a change. Contrary to what the Socialist Party has done, which hasn't touched us in any game, you are asking for a change. Not with regard to the 100 million that the BNG Group is asking to draw them from health materials to put them on issues related to violence against men. In my opinion, it's questionable; above all, by the places where you get the matches. But, finally, you make a smaller variation, but at least this is a matter of concern to you. So I'm telling you that we have our vision and you have yours. I am also sorry that none of you have made any public statement — understood as you have done from this rostrum — that we are going to do everything possible to move to that commission that there will be a joint position in the Senate from Galicia for the fight against macho violence. I think that's important when you talk about consensus. This is the consensus that we are demanding. Not a single mention — I don't know if they're going to do it now — but trust that we will — we will succeed or not, as I told you before — everything we can to do well in something so important. No point was made — or, at least, if so, excuse me, I think not — the important effort being made on the job. It's just that it's social politics too. It's just that, many times, it's encouraging the fight against male violence through the assistance of the office, all these things that are done. And I can tell you that Galicia, on its own turn, will be, from now on, at the top. We'd like to be more, but compared to what's charged in other places, and especially as long as they wait, we're fine on duty. Mrs. Vilan, you know very well. And we have to be even better. But I think this is important, it's an effort that's been made, that's done since Galician Union, and I think I should, I don't know -- in my opinion, at least -- some kind of comment. About what I'm wondering about the UPA I think I've already answered, I told Mr. Villoslada. About Lexnet they all made criticisms. Hey, this is a mistake, it's a complicated system. But I can assure you that it works infinitely better than it works elsewhere, Mrs. Santos. I suppose they'll talk to people who work in the administration of justice, but so do I. And with mistakes and things to correct, I think we're in the head, and it's fair to admit it. And investment in new technologies in the judicial field has nothing to do with what was done until a few years ago. So there's a lot left to be done, but I think the difference is so abismal about what was before and, above all, about what is in other autonomous communities, especially those that are managed in the Ministry's territory, that I think it's fair to recognize it, or at least not deny it at all. On the creation of new judges, as I said — I think — Mr Villoslada. Everything they offer us will say yes, and put the money for chapter I, personnel, so they can be created. Now, with regard to their concrete designation, of which yes and no, we will continue to do so — of course, while that is my responsibility — by the Joint Committee of Galicia, in the joint committee, with the High Court of Justice; admitting all criticisms and knowing that sometimes the political decision is easier than the objective decision. But the decision will always be objective, which I think is the best way to make politics. With regard to emergencies, look, if we're going to keep saying that we want to do business with fire, give the money to businesses, which are all our friends, privatized and so on, we're never going to solve the main issue, which is that we've been waiting for a year to come up with from the deputies, promoters of system change — three of them, that means that the fourth is not — and that is, if we can make a system change, to make sure it's viable. We've been here for a year. It won't be so hard when you promised us that documentation, done less than a month ago, and a year later we're still exactly the same. So, Mrs. Santos, really, if we go on with this kind of slogan, with this kind of brand, that you think so... That's not true, and I believe that the Galician Union at this point - and I said it in my first intervention - without having, by the law of the Bipartite, no other obligation than the pure coordination of emergencies, is implicated as no autonomous community is involving itself to deal with emergencies. Here is much more difficult, because our orography, our population dispersal, makes it much more difficult to deal with emergencies. But here we're going to try in every effort. And the Members here are getting involved. If they want system change, let them do it. Town Councils have to involve themselves, and this, in the end, I think everyone will appreciate it. A little more. I'm left with an intervention, I think, and I'll try to make a little summary. I'll try, apart from the things that I'll then hear from you on that last shift, remember everything that's done, what served as a basis for what we want to do and, above all, what we want to do. And I say again, in order to finish — that you will identify it as goodness, as propaganda, as anything, but it is absolutely sincere and convincing — that of the offer of collaboration. We win the elections by most absolute and that's why we're here, but the opposition, if you want, also has things to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President. Now a special round of government double clarifications is opened. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u99	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. The Vice-President here has made us a sincere offer of consensus and a call to dialogue. I think I should appoint as the coordinator of that offer of dialogue to Mrs. Paula Prado. I believe it is the person who has the most suitable heel to address this offer so sincere and so honest that Mr Rueda has made us in this Parliament. [[Applause]] Because, in addition, he gave us a great lesson in political experience to others, who are poor new Members, who have just arrived at Parliament and we have no experience at all. [[Applause]] We thank him very much for that tone and humility that he has just given us here today. You must have taken a double ration today, I told you the other day, a double ration of guinealla and chili — which you copied the chascarrillo the other day — but the truth is that you at lunch today should have an extra dose. And you made here a reference to Cuba, which I didn't expect less, and I have to tell you something about it. Look, I feel very proud of my passage through the German Government, of course, it was a great honor. I am also very proud to have led a policy — for the first time — of promoting Greek culture in the world without asking for permission and protection from anyone, going in his own voice and with our culture proudly around the world. We went to Cuba as a guest country and it was an immense honor. [[Applause]] And we went as an invited country after going there to Germany and Argentina, and some of them couldn't tolerate it, so they made an infamous campaign of attack on that experience. But it is there, it is there and it has been defended by the entire cultural sector of this country and by all the people who participated in that first experience, which - unfortunately - was then truncated because you have put down all the cultural policies that have been set up in this country, agreed with the different sectors. And some of them who kept around should have bothered him so much that he was driven by the government of the BNG at the time that his name was changed, his name was changed. [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, that's not the most serious thing you said here. You here made absolutely intolerable claims, that we do not agree with you and that we ask you to withdraw, we ask you to withdraw them. Because, of course, it is not to be accepted that you say in this House that where we rule women we do not rule. That's absolutely intolerable and we won't let him, we won't let him. Or they say that opposition groups are disabled to talk about equality here. [[Applause]] Nor do we consent to that, because where we rule we set an example of our firm commitment... Yeah, I'll tell you about Ponte Caldelas, don't worry I'll tell you about Ponte Caldelas, actually. Because you have found there a subject to attack — as they usually do — the governments of this Parliament. But we don't admit to demagogy and frivolity with which they act on this subject, even talking about series like Tell me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] It is absolutely frivolous that you make this type of comment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The CIM of Ponte Caldelas, the service, happened that happened because there was an illegal contract, there was an illegal contract. [[Murmurs.]] Who knows who signed it? Do you know who signed it? Mr. Perfect Rodríguez, mayor of Ponte Caldelas. Do you know who he is? Do you know who Mr. Perfect Rodríguez is? For you have given him as a prize, for making illegal contracts, the Energy of the Consortium of Equality and Welfare. Those are the prizes you give to the mayors who sign illegal contracts, which then justice throws down. But don't worry that Ponte Caldelas and all the governments where the BNG is, of course, will have equal services, will pay attention to women, don't worry about it, because it's guaranteed. Interestingly, you said nothing when you suspended, when you deleted, the CIM of Cambados, you said nothing, you were quiet. Then you weren't here, you weren't in the world, you weren't in Parliament, you were quiet. Of course, I ruled the People's Party in Cambados, so there was nothing to say. Finally, each with his conscience and each with his inconsistencies. [[Applause]] Mr. Rueda, I'm also going to talk about you... I don't have much time left and I'm going to talk about you. Well, they won the elections by an absolute majority. Mr. Trump has also won the elections by an absolute majority. Well, winning the elections by most absolutes wins a lot of people in the world, with a lot of procedures and a lot of resources, and we'll see the results. [[Murmurs.]] What gives me a little concern is that you don't even know who makes up the Vigo Metropolitan Area, and you're nothing but the Vice President of Galicia. Well, in the Vigo Metropolitan Area, she's the mayor of Moaña. I don't know if you know the mayor of Moaña, who is waiting for Junta to solve all the traffic chaos that they've encountered there with the works of the variant. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u101	...it's all right. With regard to justice... you don't like me reminding you of this, but the headlines are powerful. "Technological failures force the suspension and delay of dozens of trials in Galicia." A news from October 2016, three months ago. "The zero-paper pioneer trial weighs to abandon the damage." The pioneer trial on zero paper. A news release in December 2016, a month ago. "People notice the lack of telematics and application failures." "The system that would end up with zero paper in multi-ply trials." A news from October 2016.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u102	Mr Bará, stop, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u103	There are missing equipment and better access to the network, but, above all, space, judges and jury. You come here with a triumphal speech of autobomb, but the reality of justice is the reality of the role of the papers, of the media, of which workers are denounced every day...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u104	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u105	...in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u106	Thank you, Mr Bará. You have the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u107	Thank you, President. I am certainly disappointed that — as Mr Vice-President rightly calls for agreements on this committee or subcommittee in the Senate in the field of violence — the spokesperson of the People's Party had made the intervention which he did in the field of violence in the field of equality. [[Applause]] Apart from that it seems to me of little rigour, even a parliamentary one, because he made no mention, except in the matter of equality, of that nuance to the rest of the presentation of his proposal by a member of the Government. Mr Prado, apart from the labor problem at Ponte Caldelas, and you know well, don't tell us examples when -- part of the Baltar case -- they voted last week against an initiative on anti-pregnancy clauses and on women's issues, even the People's Party in Madrid had the delicacy to abstain, not to vote against. Yesterday we had the news that at the central government level equality plans for pemes and universities are eliminated, do not talk about equality commitments, please! [[Applause]] But yes, Mr Rueda, count on us, indeed, for the best possible work of consensus towards the Senate on equality and gender-based violence. Two, three questions, because I think it's appropriate to introduce some mating or some precision for the last round of closure on its part. When we talk about transfers, we don't talk about the central government having to either transfer or not transfer, but we're talking about giving impetus to its own autonomous transfer initiative. That is, if you — even in your own electoral programme — set out that list of subjects to be formulated to the Central Government to transfer to Galicia, begin to make the corresponding agreements to formulate those initiatives. Because we have the feeling that on the part of the People's Party the autonomous state has always been conceived as a model of administrative deconcentration, not really as a model of territorial and political decentralization, and, from that point of view, if they do not change that vision, that exercise of autonomous initiative will be difficult to carry it forward with conviction. When we talk about external action, we cannot consider developing the Welsh Strategy of Galicia's external action at the level of decree rather than the level of law. Clearly, the consensus of the House, the parliamentary debate, is what can enrich and achieve precisely those consensuss in such important action as external action. That, by the way, we believe that there is a significant shortage of work in the European Union, we would even like that from that point of view the external action of the Union did not consist only of a travel report, pure chronology presented to the relevant committee. We need the President himself or the vice president when they make certain trips abroad to report to the House on this important action. When we talk about conviction in the fight against fraud and corruption, when I mention the recent report by Transparency International Spain, I mention it because the government's own autonomous transparency portal assumes this index as proper to the level of transparency of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, if we could not go to other portals. And I am concerned that we occupy the last place, precisely in transparency in the area of urbanism, spatial planning and public works. When we also talk about reordinating troops, I suppose we're talking about reordinating troops but trying to recover, with the necessary progress, the lost public employment, opening the negotiating tables and strengthening the Galician School of Public Administration, which is little to do, because it may not have sufficient resources in the field of training for the internal promotion of all staff and work for the best professional routes of public employment in Galicia. In this sense, to finish, I would like to insist that, please, take forward the metropolitan processes, the territorial map processes. When we talk about mergers yes, mergers no, what we're asking for is a work plan, a calendar, a horizon. Don't keep suffocating the cities towards the 2019 elections, because the only city in Galicia that's ruling is Ourense and they're not able to develop the budgets that this city needs and carry it forward. Nothing else, for me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Villoslada. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea to Mrs. Santos Queiruga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u109	Thank you. First of all, what I want to express is that even though I would like to speak directly to Mr. Rueda, who deals with this intervention, is that I find myself absolutely obliged, as a woman, to reply to Mrs. Paula Prado; because it is from such an aberration level to his intervention to us, women, and being you, I am sorry to have to question her deeply, because you are a slate for feminism, for women and for the political spaces and the spaces of society to be women, to really be fraternal women and women who really are up to the changes we have to be in front of, the women. [[Applause]] It's better to be bazaar feminists, Mrs. Prado, than to be Louis Vuitton feminists, you know? It's much better, it's much better. And from giving gifts to feminism that you understand, as Ana Mato and her partner organizations know more, that if we also start shooting hemerotheque, we make an allure of feminism and good behavior, too, really, irreparable. We believe, moreover, that making a frivolation of a subject as serious as the situation of women, as is the case with the violence of the masquerade, in the case of the inequalities that we suffer, I have already told Mr. Rueda that we believe that they do often legislation and proposals from their group that are good for us and that they are correct, the problem is to take them into practice, that they really are reality. What we see is that, for example, in the area of wage equality, temporary contracts between men and women are at 61.96 % for women and 38.04 % for men. This is the direct responsibility of the Vice-Presidentship of the Board in the relevant area. So, well, well, it's not done, it's something that needs to be improved. When I spoke to Mr. Rueda, I told him that he has an exhausted government, beyond which no one puts into doubt that the elections have won, we repeat it constantly, no one puts him in doubt, but that doesn't mean that they don't have to assume that there must be progress and that there must be improvement, and that we can have a much more modern model. He's wrong when he says we don't know anyone else more than you know and we have a very modern administration. We have an administration that has been modernised in many things, I agree with you, in others it has much to modernise itself, because there are people who have also seen other administrations, actually at the state level, which we also know of a lot of evidence that the Greek Administration has with respect to quality, temporality, as I told you before, of which it has said absolutely nothing; 30% in temporality that leads to judicial proceedings and which is a serious problem, because then it has denounced the Administration and also produces a worsening of the provision of services, the quality of welfare services, which is their responsibility, too. And, Mrs. Prado, with regard to corruption, what do you want me to tell you? I'm going to tell you something aside. The next time the People's Group refers to our organizations and our parliamentary group with a different name, with the intention of making fun of our organizations, at least I'm going to also call them as a lot of people, which is "Party Podre", and we have the same right. "Pode Party" for corruption, it's in the Champions League of corruption, in the Champions League. They can demagoxically use what they want, that we are not equal, we are not equal! More importantly, they could directly put a virgin to Genoa 13 that we ended up before, and everybody knows it, they're even charged as a political organization for corruption. [[Murmurs.]] So we're going to be serious and we're going to have a little bit of humility. As we are urged to be humble, you too have humility in knowing that no one will doubt that the People's Party has the highest levels of corruption in all the spaces that rule all over the state and all of Europe. And that's so, as much as it hurts them, and at least accept it and have humility, and that's not because it can happen to any political organization having a person who leaves a frog, but it's the control systems, that you don't have them either inside or outside or anywhere. And finally, with respect to AP-9 transfers. What's clear is that it's inconsistencies, it's a very large deficiency of this Government that vote something here and vote just the opposite in Madrid with such an important thing for the economy and for the well-being of many Greeks and Greeks, an absolute social injustice, and that they have that level of absence of rebellion and submission to Mr. Rajoy. And that you — Mr. Rueda — take out this rule of an absolute majority, unique throughout the state, because it is of little use to them, because they don't even give them a chance, to our misfortune. So a lot of things didn't answer me about corruption and transparency. And finally, also, that I stayed in the paint shop, in the Greek administrations, it's not that the officials tell me things, as they can tell you, but they're my guile. I'm not a politician, I'm a public servant, I'm passing by, but lately I've been commented...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u111	...—I'm done—how are there some subsidies over there that are assigned in an absolutely less transparent way, but since today's not the day, I will present this in committee or in full, which is where to do it, and will dismantle that argument. So that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs. Santos. You have the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group to Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Villoslada, I really feel like I've let you down my speech, but my speech was based on coherence, rather on incoherence. And when I said they were disabled to talk about equality, I referred to the specific case that they were exposed to, and while they didn't rectify at Ponte Caldelas, I'm not going to correct one of the words I said in this gallery, not one single, not one single! because to reach agreements is basic coherence. [[Applause]] Why, what do we talk to, the Socialist Party that defends that women's information centres have to be a competition for the Union? Mrs Vilan, are you a judge, too, are you a judge, Mrs Vilan? Because in this House there's a lot of judges, and a lot of judges, and a lot of adjunct judges, and, you're an adjunct judge, too, Mrs. Vilan?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u114	Please keep it quiet, just as it has been kept... please keep it quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u115	We must defend that the judges are paid in the trial, that the judges who are paid in the trial, Mrs. Noela...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u116	Please, Mr. Sánchez. Mr. Sánchez, please. Keep quiet. Excuse me, Mrs. Prado, excuse me a moment. Excuse me a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u117	Yeah, but I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u118	Excuse me a moment, time's up. Please, I am acting rigorously in all cases. Yes, yes, Mr. Santos. Yeah, yeah. Look, I ask you to keep the necessary respect, to listen to your comrades just as you heard the previous one. I call you in order, first call. You can continue, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I insist, I was talking about coherence, because in order to reach agreements it is essential to know which starting point we start, and I don't know if I'm talking to the Socialist Party that defends women's information centres to be the competence of the Union or the Socialist Party that defends women's information centres to be municipal competition, because, as at this moment in Galicia there are two views of the Socialist Party regarding women's information centres, I denounce incoherence, because without that coherence it is impossible to reach agreement, Mr Villoslada. Look, Mr Bará, Cuba would go with its own voice, but as far as you can see, they've gone with all the foreigners, paid by all the Greeks and the Greeks, that's yours... and I'm telling you the same thing as the Socialist Lord and Mrs Santos, I'm not going to rectify until you correct them at Ponte Caldelas, because it's not true what you said here. [[Applause]] You don't have a serious commitment to equality, you don't defend the women who are suffering badly in the countryside, because the county of Ponte Caldelas has 5,600 inhabitants, and the women of Ponte Caldelas have the same right to have specialized attention in the area of gender violence as any other Greek woman, and you are stealing that right, that right, Your Honor. [[Applause]] And look, you're upset that I'm coming here and tearing off your speech on equality. That's what bothers them, because you think they have the heritage of equality, just like you think they give meats of yellow and yellow, but they don't! You don't have the heritage of equality, because where they rule they don't defend it with the same ravine they ask the Galician Council to defend it. And look, Mrs. Santos, of course not, not and no. I am not the kind of woman in politics who seeks Mr. Pablo Iglesias, that political woman who has to be to look after others, like a mother, no, I refuse! Look, I've lost the papers. I refuse to be politics, I refuse to be the political woman that Paul Churches wants you to be, the women of Podemos. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] To be caregivers and mothers you are already women of Podemos, women of the People's Party we fight for women's rights, women of the People's Party we fight for women's economic independence, they have a decent job and they have a wage according to their work. You're dedicated to taking care of yourself. [[Applause]] Maybe I don't understand it, because, of course, as you now make a speech for 14-year-olds, because of course, maybe we have to go uncomplaining to go and introduce ourselves to your idea and your imagination, rather imaginary than ideal, but, well. Mr. Vice-President, I am sorry that after you had come here with a speech full of words, and with an appearance full of words such as illusion, impulse, reform, dialogue, commitment, consensus, support, cooperation, transparency or responsibility, you had to listen to the things you heard, for one who is doing merits to get to the mayor of Pontevedra, the other who is also looking for his place, because, of course, as they don't let her speak. Then they say that we call them The Tides of Podemos, but they call them in the streets The Tides of Podemos. We brought to the House the street language, Mrs. Santos. I'm not to blame for calling them The Tides of Podemos. It's just that I really understand that yesterday Mrs. Biscay was very clear and said that you would no longer be integrated. [[Applause]] I don't know very well, well, Mr. Villares laughs, of course, that one is voted upon so that he won't be a spokesperson, the other is in or out. I understand that with their lulles it is very difficult to have a coherent and unique speech, I understand it, but you will also understand that the street people don't understand whether they're Marea, Marea de Podemos, Podeos da Mares, or if they're today, tomorrow they're not, one day they're integrated, another day they disintegrate, and the truth is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u120	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u121	...it's very complex. Mr Vice-President, I am counting on the People's Parliamentary Group to achieve the objectives it has set for us today, because Galicia's objectives are also the objectives of the People's Party, because we cannot disappoint the people who voted for us on 25 September. And on September 25, the people of the street, the citizens and citizens of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u122	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u123	...they voted us for the facts and not for the words. Others are lost in words, and so it goes to the polls. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have the floor to close the debate of the Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bará, if I had done with Mrs. Prado what you do with Mr. Mosquera, she would have to be here defending her, but she knows she's defending herself perfectly. I'm just telling you five minutes that you've devoted four and a half to talking about things that you didn't have to do with counseling, and at the end of all time. Each one chooses the subjects that matter to him. [[Interruptions.]] So we've seen what matters to you, you've talked about it again, about the video conferences, only about the headlines, about the headlines. [[Murmurs.]] Take the trouble of reading the news and you'll see what I told you in the first intervention, which fails because they fail on the other side, because we're here with a video conferencing system that's ahead, and I always go to what you put on, and I don't say anything else because I would have to do Mr. Mosquera, and I'm not Mr. Mosquera and I don't have to defend a person who defends himself perfectly, by the way, with truths like fists, and I have to say it, to be clear. And after this, Mr. Villoslada, tell me about the law -- if I say a discussion again, yes, the parliamentary debate -- I can, in return, offer, as long as we do that strategy, all the transfer of the things that are needed on that strategy to make the necessary contributions, because we really want to succeed in that strategy. As for the transparency portal that told me, if it's true that we have it as a reference, they have it as a reference in all autonomous communities, but they also said that in another analysis, in another analysis that I think is objective, we went out much better. In any case, what I can tell you is that when we came out in international transparency, here, in this Parliament, we were told that we were a disaster, with which, at last. All we can do is try to do things right and believe that important steps are taken in transparency, and continue among all trying to get the administration as efficient and as transparent as possible. And with regard to metropolitan processes, no problem, I came back — I think it didn't have much echo — and I offer here again that when the law is complied with, the Council of Galicia will withdraw the litigation-administrative remedy put in defense of the law that we all approve, unanimously. So full support for the metropolitan areas, also for the Coruña. The one in the Coruña that they have to do -- this I've already had an opportunity to speak to the mayor of the Coruña -- is to raise the consensus of all, at least in the desire to do so before I can push it, and here there will be no doubt. And Mrs. Carmen Santos, simply, if I'm allowed a comment — that I'm not a council, that I'm not able to give them -- I'm also a public employee, but here I'm doing politics, for that we're paid, to make politics, to try to improve things. That speech I'm not political, I'm something else, because politicians are better to say they're not, that leads sometimes to things like what your partner, Antonio Sánchez, said to say -- I was saying there, I listened to him there -- that to put public judgements there doesn't need to be a judge. Those are the dangerous things that despised politics, so I wouldn't honestly say those things. [[Applause]] And to finish, as I announced at the beginning, I'd just like to say that to build, to continue building in the future, first you have to build in the past, and I've been here four years ago saying that a comprehensive recovery center would be set up for victims of gender violence. It's on the move, 123 people attended in just two years. We said we'd be a yellow observatory of gender violence, an interdepartmental commission, and it's already working. We announced that we would finish Ourense's new judicial complex, that we would set up the justice portal, and the building has been running for two years now, and the justice portal is already functioning on a pioneering basis. We said we'd set up a specialized unit in the police unit to fight against gender-based violence. It's been working since last summer. We said that we would strengthen the civil protection volunteer associations and use more than 8 million euros in supplies of new material modes, which, I insist, were missing. We reported that we regulated the time control system regulations by introducing telework and time flexibility as a generalized system, and it's working, I think, successfully, within the Galician Joint Administration. We announced that we would work to incorporate the administrative procedures into the electronic field, and the Axiga Plan — as I told you — allows virtually all of it. Only 5% of the Galician Joint procedures can be started electronically. You see, these are some examples, ladies and gentlemen, of the things we said we were probably going to do four years ago, and we see the Session Diary. You, when you had touched me on that occasion, would say that we were not going to do it, that it was all continuity, because it is true that we had come from a previous legislation and that it was propaganda. Well, these are the things that are done, and as are the things that are done and that we are allowed to do, what we now intend to do in this legislation — I say and I reiterate — will be the main lines of action: to end the staffing of the big cities in judicial infrastructures; to alone are the buildings that are being built; to approve the VII equality plan, with schedule of activities until 2020; to approve the I conciliation and co-responsibility plan of Galicia 2018-2020; to continue to promote a common front against gender violence to build the state pact against this scourge, and there we have the opportunity, and I thank Mr Villoslada — it was the only one that said it, I must say, of the three groups that spoke, except the PP, which I am sure will be in that consensus—that offered to establish that common position; to adopt a new emergency law to advance in the coordination of a scenario that is fortunately not the one of fifteen years ago, and it is the necessary to ensure that the support of the X, so much, it is the necessary, the necessary, and the support of the X is the necessary. Also centralization of the selection processes and, ultimately, reinforcement of the local police bodies; set up from the emergency centre 112 on the Road; promote the new local administration law once the conditions have been given before regarding the state changes and the financing model; commitment by the Galician Council to withdraw — I have just said — the administrative dispute when the Metropolitan Area Act is complied with and put in place, offering the transfer of competences from the first moment; approve a regulatory decree, not a quality management system, in the autonomous public sector; re-ordering the personnel of the autonomous administration, a very ambitious plan which has not yet deserved — and I regret — the comments of anyone; approve a Welsh external action strategy for Galicia, and I reiterate Mr. Villos' offer; and cooperate with the solid development of the NGOs that are doing and increasing their budget, as far as possible, as far as X can be, as possible — as the minimum — as possible. This is also a small collection of the things we want to do in this legislation, to which I commit myself four years ago, and I only say that I ask for collaboration and offer consensus on the things we can consent, and I think that, if we succeed, we will succeed among all, Government, who has won the elections, and opposition, that I say again, as I said before, that you have a lot to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u126	Thank you very much, Vice President. We suspended the session until 17 o'clock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u127	Let's resume the agenda with point 2, the motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to gender violence in minors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u128	G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo. This initiative will be presented with two amendments: the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Maria Luisa Pierres López, and by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Paula Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u129	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u130	Thank you very much. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today the Galego Nationalist Block brings to this plenary a serious, ambitious proposal with concrete contents so that we actually put in place a Greek pact against gender violence. In this sense, I want to highlight something that is important to us: to speak of a Greek covenant against gender-based violence is not to speak of a label, not of empty words to cover consciences or to do what is done, but for us it is only possible to make a Greek covenant against gender-based violence if there are more means, more resources and really new initiatives to fight against male violence. Because the truth is that women are tired of seeing how while women are murdered the only thing there are good words, great phrases, but then, in reality, in what is within our hands, in what we can do from the scope of public institutions, we see how there is a certain resistance to moving, walking and assuming that there are new strategies. Because, of course, we are facing a very serious problem, one of the most extended and socially consented human rights violations. This must therefore be a matter of concern, of concern, and of what this Government's empty silons do, because they also offend us in the debate on this initiative. We're talking about violence and I want to remember that talking about gender-based violence is murder. According to the official data of the ministry — I will not collect the data published by Feminicide but the official data of the ministry, which are sufficiently serious — since 2003 more than eight hundred women have been murdered in the Spanish State. At that same stage, 50 women were murdered in Galicia, 6.3 percent of the women killed in the state as a whole. But, obviously, murders are the cruelest, most extreme face of violence, but they're not the only face of violence. We know that every year there are 5,000 women who file complaints in the Greek courts, but at the same time, more optimistic studies than they are warning us is that complaints do not reach as much as 20% of the actual cases of gender-based violence in our country. So we only see the tip of the iceberg. And we don't want to forget that behind every complaint, behind every blow, there's a woman who's suffering and a woman who needs us to be next to her. Because today there are thousands of women who, when they open the door to their homes, don't feel safe and happy, but go straight to hell. And today in this debate we would like to give a voice to some of those witnesses so that we don't forget that we don't talk about something cold but we talk about something real that affects us as humans: Mary was a victim of male violence for four years and reports that the problem came when verbal and physical arguments and assaults began. He says, "You're not aware of anything. One day, suddenly, he wore a knife in his hand because he took another one. And after four years, which seemed forty, I decided to react: I went to the hospital, I reported and I had a quick trial, so they imposed a restraining order on him. However, the law was not enough, because he jumped this order several times and yet they reduced the time from three years to one year." Antonia tells us in an interview: "Violence always goes further. Behind the first cry comes the phrase that condemns each conversation: you're stupid. At first I was sorry and two months later I would build up tension and scream again and hit the wall. I used to be quiet again because of panic. I had no work, I couldn't leave my house, I had nowhere to go and yes, I was very, very scared. Until the day came when I was much more scared of what I was going to do when I got back to work. I grabbed my daughter, got in the car and left. It was the best I could do because then I knew he was walking with a machete looking for me. A woman living domestic violence remains fragmented. You recognize it is painful because you actually accept and allow someone to beat you up and mistreat you. It's like a death in life." I, I don't know you, but every time I hear these or other stories we can see fortunately through the media, because I keep thinking about how many Marias, how many Antonias, how many women we will never be able to recognize or name today in this Parliament, they felt the same as Mary and Antonia. But I also think of all those women who will never be able to tell us their stories, because they were women who were buried and murdered because they said they were their mates and they would want them all their lives. And today I think we have a debt pending with many women, women like Ana Gómez Nieto, women like Ana María Enjamio Carrillo, women like Elena Michaela Marcu, who were murdered last year in our country. And I really think we have to not stay in the conformism that everything is fine, that there is nothing to do, and I really think we have to do something else and that we have to put this as a subject where we are really willing to do something more than say good words that end up falling into a broken bag. I would like this to be not a repetition of this speech today: demagogic, populist, which reduces machismo and all its consequences to absurdity and even to prevent us from being able to talk about it. I'm not going to disenfranchise anyone because no one has granted me those powers; I don't know if in the intrusion that has a side of the bench right now they already believe in the right to tell us what we can talk about. In any case, we are not going to reduce this debate to a pim pam pom absurd partisan and that, clearly, the only thing that introduces us is a strategy that is absolutely useless at improving the situation. Clearly, what has been done so far has been all important. But, in view of what is happening in our country, we sincerely say that everything is insufficient, that there is a resounding of violence, that there is a new neo-machist strategy and that we have an obligation to review what has not been done, what is working wrong and the things we can improve. Because if you don't, it seems like we're in a kind of roupy where what hasn't been done before can't be done now. I refuse to accept that dynamic because, among other things, we would continue in prehistory, in the caverniculum, and I think it would be important for dialectics to be given in other terms. We understand that one thing is the debate that must be produced in the state and another is the debate that we have to have in Galicia in relation to our own country's competences. And in these terms is where we want to place a proposal for a Greek covenant against gender violence in which the Galician Union, all this chair of advisers and advisers who today do not agree to this debate, because they should assume their responsibilities because they have in their hands the ability to improve the political, social and institutional response against gender violence. And in that sense we make ten concrete proposals: some are directly dependent on the Union; elsewhere we want to do a common front from Galicia in order to be able to defend improvements in the response of the judicial or institutional system to such a serious situation as that which causes gender violence. The first thing we think about is that more resources are needed; more resources are needed not only for the assistance of women who are in a situation of gender-based violence, but because there is a lack of training and co-responsibility, because more means and more resources are needed to make this really a political priority. We've recorded that the goal must be that we have at least 1% of the budget dedicated to fighting against gender violence. We can talk about how much or how little it seems to them, whether we want to program it, but there has to be a real commitment in this direction. The second, to us, it's important to categorize well what we're talking about. There's a new category that helps us define better what's going on with gender-based violence: feminicide. We propose that this be included in the Welsh legislation and that a status of the victim of feminicide be put in place as well, which coordinates the entire response to women who suffer from gender-based violence. Thirdly, to improve the resources of justice, both with more judges and with the staffing they have to have. And here at this point, we have gathered proposals which the Galician Council of Lawyers has put forward in the non-permanent Commission on the equality we have in this Parliament, which has made proposals which remain there. We collect those proposals. We think we need to work on education, so we think it would be important to take a step forward as a Welsh law of co-education. We think it's important that more preventive measures exist. I would like to stop — if I may have a second — in an aspect that is relevant, which is what it has to do with psychological care: the Greek Government is failing to comply with the law, but, aside from this — that we say that compliance with the law, which says that psychological attention should be considered as a primary care service, we understand that, as not everything is going to be done from day to morning, the programs that are working have to be opened to all women. And precisely the women who haven't broken up with violence can be very important for them to take that step and there's psychological support...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u132	...and so all the applications open up in that sense. And then, finally, there are two aspects that I think are important: one, that progresses in the fulfilment of the Compostela Declaration so that there is a proper treatment in the public and private media of cases of violence, and two, that we avoid the secondary victimization of women when they suffer a situation of gender violence. Because really this is a question that even if the person who doesn't know the subject may seem smaller, the truth is that it's very important not only that when there's a complaint there's a proper deal and women go to the end, but because it's part of the recovery process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u134	Finally, we want a German pact...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u136	...with more means and more resources and not idle words and responsibility to others, and that this absent Government, of course, would have been worthy to participate in one of the debates on such an important aspect as the fight against gender violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to go as fast as I can because, first of all, Mrs. Pontón, I have made it difficult for you to do so with this extensive initiative, which in five minutes I can only talk about ten percent of everything you expose. But beyond this fact, allow me two reflections: the fact of its extensive proposal — I understand it well — is not free of charge, they lead us to be aware of much -- you said — of the very much that is to be done in the field of gender violence. I have already commented on a past intervention which is a subject that is always present in every plenary session of this House, and this is for some reason: by the sad fact that there are many women who continue to live every day in situations of vulnerability and violence. And on the other hand, we understand that a proposal involving so many points and with so many nuances seriously hinders its full support. So let us agree with most of the above that we disagree on some issues, so it's good that we would like them to look at the voting by points and, in any case, our amendment. With regard to the introduction of a regulation of feminicide in the Greek Law 11/2007, for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender violence, we have already talked about past interventions in this House of our willingness to open this debate, knowing that there are opinions in favour, others against and others with nuances about the term and the consequences of it. We are not afraid of debates or words, and much less of changing the laws that we ourselves have made with the agreement, with collaboration and with the impulse not only of the whole political arc in some cases — not in others — but also of all feminist organizations. We believe that the amendment of the law, the introduction of this term and its regulation must be done with this prior consensus and debate. We therefore understand that support must be postponed at that time. Even so, we understand that in the matter of funding it would be better to talk about adjusting it to the real demand for funding. Not to mention figures or specific percentages, but those that are needed, not more or less. We find it far more important to talk about ensuring that no woman who is a victim of macho violence in Galicia is left out of the aid due to lack of budget. And most importantly, that these, in the case of periodicals, once requested, are re-absorbed within a maximum of 20 days and not within a maximum of five months, as specified in the law in force. This urgency in the adjudications is fundamental. Last week, I was transferred to a woman's case -- we're also calling Lola, Mrs Prado, by setting an example -- who, by complying with all the requirements for the salary of freedom and by submitting her application, makes the involuntary mistake, and not caused by her, to do so in a 2015 printing press, and not in 2016, so she's answered a month later by asking, "Represent the documentation in the correct form" and with the indication to do so within a maximum period of ten days, with the file's closing threat if she doesn't. We believe that the treatment of this kind of aid that allows women to be autonomous and solvent, to focus on seeking a job of their training, should be treated with all urgency. We all understand that there is a need for formality in the processing of a benefit, but let's look at the case of a patient entering an Emergency Service with a serious bleeding wound. No doctor would ask to cover a print to the patient before attending and put it into surgery. We all understand that. For this is — we think — the degree of sensitivity and responsibility that the Government should have with these women. Even more so when these laws regulating aid already envisage the return, in case of non-compliance with the conditions, before, during or at the end of the benefit. They give priority, therefore, to the provision and claim as soon as they have to claim prints that prevent women like this, who meet all the requirements, from being deprived of resources for months on a purely formal issue. The delay of these kinds of issues is the reason why women are suspicious of the guarantees of protection that are announced as such. In the motion for amendment, the Socialists also request the establishment of specific intervention protocols for full-time care for women who have withdrawn the complaint for gender violence, as well as a personalized judicial accompaniment to make information available to women on the itinerary and safer procedure in their judicial journey from the moment the complaint is filed to the end of the process. I repeat — and already to finish — there are several proposals that we have added and we do not have time to comment on them all, but we hope they will have the right inclusion of the amendments added to the amendment, and understand the difficulty of being able to support everything presented by you, so we hope they will have access to the voting by points. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mrs. Pontón, Mrs. Pierres, for more than 20 years I started working with women victims of gender-based violence and I know many Marias, many Anas, Victoria, Lucia, Virtudes; I could tell them many cases. What I do perceive is that since I started working with these women until today things have changed a lot, fortunately. Legal protection, resources, instruments, awareness of society is essential. But there's one before and one after, and the one before and after I always put it in order of protection. That has to lead us to a reflection: since we have the order of protection, there's a falling resource, which is the foster home. So sometimes it's not so important to put the emphasis on the resource because there are sometimes resources that, like that one, are solved with other issues. So sometimes you have to use a little more common sense than having resources. It's true that there are resources that are essential, but it's also true that there are other resources that have fallen into disuse precisely because of the legislation and because other instruments that have been more powerful to the aggressor, which have been more powerful to the batterer, which have been more powerful to the killer, allow women to have better comfort. Because, where is that woman better at her home or in a foster home? At your house. Well, we have to be able to have fewer resources among all, but the woman has more comfort. And that's the goal we all have to mark. Where do we have a very serious problem? We have a very serious problem with education, ladies and gentlemen. Why? Because we're detecting it in younger people, because with all the information we have today, with the amount of awareness campaigns we have, with all the resources that access young people, there's more gender violence among teenagers than ever. Why? Well, there's something we're gonna do wrong. And it's not about putting more resources on teenage women who are victims of violence. No, we have to put more resources into education, but not just economic resources, that too, because things don't make themselves free, things have to be done by paying. That's why I say we don't just focus on resources, instruments and so on. Let us be absolutely effective in the policies we put in place, because the effectiveness of those policies will be better. The more effective the policy we put in place, the better the result. You present today a Greek Covenant against gender-based violence, ladies and gentlemen, with ten points. As you know, the Congress of Deputies has adopted a state pact with many more points. You were presented with an absolutely unilateral question; that is, the pact is something that is agreed, something that is consensual, something that we all agree on. That is why the People's Parliamentary Group tabled an amendment framed in one of the agreements reached last week at the Conference of Presidents, which, as the President of the European Union said this morning because one of the eleven agreements reached at the Conference of Presidents was a State Covenant on Gender Violence. And for that, autonomous communities have to make our contribution. And what contribution are we going to make? For we propose that we make the contribution of all, of all parliamentary groups, and for that we present an amendment to grant that agreement, to raise it through an instrument, to channel it. And what's the instrument? A presentation within the Non-Permanent Equality Commission in this Parliament. Well, we give a reasonable three-month deadline so we can reach agreements. Because today you present ten points, the Socialist Party is already telling you that there are some points with which you are absolutely not in agreement; the Socialist Party has also presented an amendment to so many other points; we could present another amendment to ten or twelve points; the Tide too, surely. Well, we'd probably be here now talking about forty things. We believe that if there really is a desire for consensus, if there really is a will to come to an agreement and if we want to move an agreement to the Conference of Presidents that reflects... No, well, you already say no, because if you say no, nothing happened, Mrs. Pontón, it's a matter of political will. I'm just telling you that we have that amendment; if you don't want to accept it, there you are. We, of course, believe that this is an instrument. What you present here today is the BNG proposal, it's not a pact, it's not a pact; no, it's not a pact, because the People's Party and the Socialist Party have just told you that they disagree with their points. We also disagree on some of the issues, even if we agree on something, we disagree on the best part of philosophy. So what we propose is that there be an agreement, and to have an agreement, we have to sit down, we have to debate, we have to dialogue and we have to approach positions. And we can't do that right now, in five minutes, in a debate of a motion, as you can understand, because the representative of the Socialist Party has just told him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u141	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u142	...and we, for our part, are willing to reach an agreement, but that is, in a longer frame of reference, a little more time to talk about things. And if you don't want to, then there you are. The People's Party will continue to make that proposal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u144	Thank you, President. Good morning. From Marea we are in favour of this motion put forward by the Nationalist Block, because we believe it feels basic lines. Of course we must continue to debate and put other measures into action, but we understand that the general framework for us is very favourable. Today morning we hear the government's willingness to make the fight against macho violence a priority and the intention of trying to work together and reach major agreements. Of course, we will do our best to do so and show our disposition, because what we're interested in is that it ends once and for all with all forms of macho violence. But you have many contradictions between your speech and your practice. Because, yes, they repeat many times that they want to reach agreements, that they want to make pacts, but then all they do is postpone the decisions brought to this House, in addition to making sure I'm the only group that can talk about equality, which I think should make some self-criticism and start the debate without preposing that you can only talk about this matter. It is clear to us that the current strategy is wrong, it is focused mainly on the reaction to complaints, to the most visible abuse, the murders, and they leave a very secondary role to which we should be given priority, which is prevention. The motion understands that it takes positive steps in this direction, so we would like it to be adopted. Because the Government says it does a lot of preventive measures, but prevention is not done in targeted campaigns on specific days; prevention is done, for example, through educational centres. And it's pretty amazing to hear Mr. Rueda, and listen to you, talking about the great advances that have been made in this eddy. In the morning they said that there was a lot of progress, now in the afternoon they said that education was key and that something we would be doing wrong. I don't know which one of the two speeches I'm left with, but I ask: with the speech in the morning, what progress are you talking about? Exactly, how can you come here to defend progress when you just passed a Law like the LOMCE which is the perfect example of education that you want? You don't want education through a gender perspective, tell me clearly. You want an education based on Catholic national morals, you tell them clearly, that's right. And if they want to do equality-based education, then they stop subsidising -- yes, we're going to repeat it -- the centres that segregate by sex. And they also stop making religion an evaluable subject of the curriculum; by the way, a single religion. They have often defended equality. They mentioned even in the morning the LGTBI collective, and after voting last week against a motion that we presented that we wanted to remove the sexist and reactionary trash from HazteOir pamphlets, how can they vote against removing that garbage? Because it's what it is: a trash. You vote against withdrawing that, but then they say they want equal education, how is it possible? [[Applause]] I don't understand the truth. They also speak of the importance of prevention when they refuse to open the debate about the media and the role of the media. Not that there are disagreements, they refuse to open the debate. I just ask them to talk about it, because we can't continue to allow the media to cosify women, teach the girls that being women is to be submissive, to be a good cook, to be a good lover or that their happiness depends on a man. That's still teaching today, not years ago, not in Tell me, today, in today's media, it's still teaching, in series, in movies, even in issues that may seem as innocent as cartoons. And allow it and not stop it, alluding to a supposed freedom of expression, it also makes them complicit. That's why, for us of nothing, it's worth condemning in all their speeches feminicides, which repeat, which defend equality, because then they always stand up, they defend sexism education, and their policy is based on cutting off, year after year, in games aimed at equality. I — and I'm going to run out of time — would ask them not to cheat. Why don't you want to vote for this BNG motion? Because they want to postpone the debate. Because their exit is not to take two measures and add three others, their exit is to create a subcommittee so that then, within God knows when — for commission didn't even have the first meeting — you say judgment. You, who says you know Lola, Mary, Ana, do you think these women can still wait? do you think you can't take action today? Do you really think you can't? [[Applause]] Do you not agree?, do you not agree, or do you agree to intensify prevention, or to promote the media to comply with the declaration already approved by Compostela? What do you disagree with the BNG motion? Tell them clearly and then we can have a realistic debate. Because what you use is an alibi. And the main deal, which should be, is that we love each other alive. So I would ask them, please, to vote on this motion by points and to approve, at least, some of the ten points that the Galician Nationalist Block presents.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Parliamentary group responsible for the motion, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u146	Thank you very much. I wanted to start almost backwards: to begin by thanking the En Marea group both for its intervention and support for this initiative, to comment that we have already done so informally with the spokesperson of the Socialist Group, and we would like to be able to enter into the killings of some issues that could be incorporated. I hope that we will have a chance, before the vote takes place, to have that understanding. And I would like to stop a little more in the intervention that the spokesperson for the Popular Group just made. The Galician Nationalist Block over the years—you saw it as I saw it from this bench—we always had a lot of responsibility when we were talking about gender-based violence issues. We had the ability, when we were in government, to push a Welsh law against gender violence, which was a very important step forward. I myself think that in the reform that must be done by the state law there is a model to follow in that galeish law that has moved, which was a law that also had a consensus in this House. In the past legislation we also stimulate debates to improve the response of public authorities in an area as it was, for example, that the wage of freedom increased throughout the year, which we have to follow up this year to see that it is being fulfilled. So we always had generosity and tender hand when it came to reaching agreements in the fight against gender violence. What you have to share with our group is that what we do not receive is that a month after we register this motion almost there is no alternative but, at the last hour, to tell us that we withdraw our motion with all its points simply to make the Commission work that had to be working in this Parliament. And that, in addition, we do so in a way voiding autonomy to tell the Senate that we have proposals; that the Senate, in a commission in which we are not, decides on the competences that are Welsh. And we, Mrs. Prado, are not going to do that. We want there to be a pact in this country, because that there is a Greek law of co-education does not depend on what happens in the Senate or what happens at the Conference of Presidents is a problem of political will. That progress — now that the Health Counsellor is here — in relation to the enforcement of the law is simply a matter of will. If you are against the proposals that we have raised in the Equality Commission in different fields and in different sectors, there are some alternatives. If you want this as an addition, but that we approve something concrete for this country, not just a pact of silence, an empty check for the Government to say that we have a pact and that there's nothing else to do, that's not a pact. A pact is to assume some concrete commitment. You guys want us to sign them a blank check. If they call a commission, how are we not going to be if it's our obligation? That's just not a pact, that's breaking the rules of the game. Here are very specific proposals, choose you, make some compromise. What can't be, Mrs Prado, is that we're here in a debate in which we finally tell the women in this country who are suffering from gender-based violence to see if the Senate at the Conference of Presidents agrees. You have to understand, Mrs. Prado, that this isn't serious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u148	If you want to sit down, you talk. We accept that this is incorporated as an addendum, but you have to accept some of the proposals that we make because, if not, we accept a blank check for the Greek Government without any concrete commitment. I really think about it because I think there's a chance that since Galicia, first of all, we're responsible for what are issues in the country itself and, secondly, that we also deliver a message to the women in this country that we're not cross-armed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u150	...but we're really engaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. I understand that if there's a transaction, he'll tell me later. Thank you. G.P. motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the health care situation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u152	Next motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party. This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u153	To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u154	Thank you, President. In fact, we are now substituting the motion derived from the last full-time appeal in December. That's why we're talking again about Urense Hospital emergencies, but we could talk about the emergencies across the country at the level of all the data that, during this month and something we've been taking since the last plenary, we had to receive, unfortunately, only through workers and workers and the media. The saturations in the country's emergencies are becoming more frequent, more constant and more common. And in spite of the more or less speaking statements, the words given by officials and health officials or the debates in the House, the situation is that emergencies are still becoming more frequent, more constant and more common. And this happens because the problem isn't being tackled, and like most of the problems, when they don't tackle themselves, they become a snowball. As public health has more problems and is more deteriorating, the problem in the E.R. obviously increases and is of the most difficult solution. As we have already moved in the debate of the Commission itself, there is a obvious lack of human resources in the emergency services and it is almost accepted, and practically accepted as usual, and not so normal, that people have to wait six hours, seven hours in any case in the emergencies, and ultimately up to eight or nine hours. And I think I remember — because I reviewed the hemerotheque and other interventions in this Parliament — that in the same service as we are talking about, not in the flu peak but in May of last year, until ten hours of waiting in the emergency services, more than waiting for the tests, etc. The emergencies need personnel, of course, of course and nothing, and that should be on the table, the necessary human resources should already be put. There are also lacks of space materials, of materials itself in some centers. But the saturations are not only explained by these deficiencies regarding the emergency services themselves. Nor can you blame people who attend emergency services. We could talk about a percentage of people who don't use the service properly, or in the right way, but that doesn't explain the usual, more common, more frequent, more permanent saturations in emergency services; that doesn't explain it. How will people not be piled up waiting for hospital emergency services if also the Radiology, Laboratory services, the services they have to do complementary tests lack enough staff, have they suffered the cuts over these years? How are they not going to accumulate if there are also fewer professionals and fewer beds available for income and therefore once they have already indicated that income, on many occasions, they have to stay twenty-four hours in an Emergency Service because there is nowhere to move them for not opening those services? How are we going to go to the E.R. if primary care has suffered, and above all primary care, personnel and resource cuts in recent years? There are health centers in which the waits are a week for a consultation, and this leads to people who can't expect to be cared for or feel they can't wait to be cared for. How is it not going to happen if you've also suffered professional cutbacks at the continuing attention points? The problem is global. It doesn't allow a single solution, a single measure. The problem is that health is increasingly deteriorating. Obviously, it happens at all centers and, like, at the center of Ourense Hospital, which has its peculiarities. The debate that took place in the Commission last week, I think, was not serious, it was not taken seriously. We have not come here to make proselytism or treat this issue as if it were of interest to use it politically by En Marea, and it gave the impression that in the People's Group they did not do the same in the Commission's debate. They can obviously move that they do not agree with some of the measures we propose, but I would ask that this time, at last, be discussed with a minimum of seriousness. They have the chance today. I am really glad that in the past health committee you decided to support one of the points in the initiative, the one that asked for more telemetry beds, i.e. to control people with heart problems at the Ourense Hospital. I am very glad that, when we discussed the question in the previous plenary session, from here on — the Counsellor is present here — this issue has been overlooked by moving that it was of no importance. I'm glad they reviewed it because, really, professionals have been claiming for a couple of years that these patients with telemetry needs accumulate in emergency services in a regular way. But it is not enough, we propose these measures again — as we have recorded in the month of December — because we need the opening of services that are usually closed, not only that they are opened at a given peak, because saturations — as I have already tried to explain — are already common throughout the year. We have brought this subject to debate here in the past. Not only in winter, but in summer there were problems, in spring there were problems, and that should make them reflect on the need for more open beds in some specialties than they could, some doctors, and with professionals to assist them. And secondly, that you provide yourself with more personal, obviously, the Emergency Service itself, in a usual way, in a constant manner, regardless of whether you can increase on time. There are shortcomings in most centers and you know as well as I do that, despite the fact that the cut was not as much as in primary care, these deficiencies make the staff insufficient. You don't get tired, on many occasions, of talking about population change, the increase in chronic diseases, the increase in population age, and that also makes it necessary to look up professionals who care for emergencies in our country on many occasions. There is obviously a need for more measures than we have proposed, and we have already said so in the Commission. More measures are needed and, above all, the analysis that I have just moved from the global problem to almost the entire health system. But besides, we're asking for information here. And there's a very bad background in this House not to provide the information that is requested, very bad. We suffered during the previous legislation, I at least, which was here, most of the questions that were asked for information were not resolved at any time. We ask them to clarify our parliamentary headquarters, if we are to be informed of the data on return to the emergency services. Yes, we ask for it, precisely, because they're the emergency service professionals, in this case of Ourense, those who transfer us that see several times people who are discharged a day before, two days before the service itself. Instead of saying that it's a very serious charge, that it's a barbarity and that we're irresponsible, transfer the data and then we'll evaluate what these data are and what measures to apply to solve them. I don't know why they're so afraid to give the information that's requested; maybe because they're probably not in favour of evaluating their management. They also clarify, in parliamentary headquarters and publicly, the number of beds that will be in the new enlargement area of Ourense Hospital and which part will remain, what number of beds will be left in the old part. Because, in addition to the lack of sufficient resources from professionals, there is a obvious problem, and infrastructure is not enough in many cases either. And unfortunately, we're talking about what's going to be inaugurated, what's going to open an extension of a hospital that's already small before it's opened, it's already insufficient. If not, they bring the data because we actually had a hospital that was under conditions that were not suitable, with rooms with four beds, with three beds, sharing six patients a bathroom. That's not right, of course it was necessary to expand. The problem we have now is that, after enlargement, when the number of beds in the other rooms are reduced so we can be in a normal situation, we're going to have the same lack of resources that we had before, but more. And if you think we're wrong, they give us the data we've been asking for since December in this House. It's the data, by the way, that professionals are asking for. I'm going to finish. In the Health Committee we also had to hear last week that we were told that there had been an increase in emergency professionals, who were more interns to care for the sick and the sick. And it's unfortunate that they use that argument, frankly, because what you don't count on is where those professionals came from. They reduced two professionals, two interns, from the hospital in Verín to transfer them to the hospital in Ourense; therefore, as if said colloquially: we wear one saint, we undress another. The reality is that you have no intention of increasing health services. And in the middle of winter and with population aging, you're withdrawing internalists from the Verín Hospital to transfer them to Ourense because there were headlines and there were protests from both the professionals. So this isn't good management. We say it in the Health Committee: when there are 19 boxes in an emergency service to care for the sick and seventeen are occupied with income, there are only two pounds. It's not good management, and saying otherwise is absurd. You have to admit here that management is inadequate and from there we can discuss if our measures are correct, if they are better, if they are worse, if they are insufficient. But, please, I would ask them -- and I'm done now, that I'm done with the time -- that at least this time we can have a real debate about the increase in the timing of emergencies and, in this case, at the Ourense Hospital. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u156	Good afternoon. I hope, Mrs Solla, that today you are a little more fortunate than when this initiative was discussed in Commission 5th, although on that occasion you have achieved the approval of one point, if you approve another one, because we can also go from point to point and something is more than nothing. It is clear that the case that we are dealing with at the Ourense Hospital Complex, although it has its specificities, is not alien to the global situation in which public health is subject in Galicia, it is not alien to the situation at the Ourense Hospital Complex that is living in the rest of Galicia. Once again, we have to report that with fewer resources, less professionals, less public health, no good health care can be provided. What they do more with less, I tell them again that it's impossible; less can only do less. In emergency services, the reality is that they're working with insufficient ratios. They're working as if there wasn't an aid increase at any time, and when there's an increase in the care pressure, however small it is, there's collapsing, because there's a problem of the arrival of more people to the emergency services, and then there's a problem of exiting those people from the emergency services. Persisting as the president of the board and the councilman here present — which is to thank you — is that they are timely issues that are under control is to miss the intelligence of the Greeks and the Greeks because, for now, the Greeks and the Greeks have enough intelligence, or at least they see, when they have to go to the Emergency Services, that this situation happens one day and the other too. We can agree that there's a demand for care above average, we can agree that there's a peak due to the flu, but what's undeniable is that there's a deficit as far as service organizations are concerned, that there's a deficit as far as available resources, that there's a shortage of staff. And the fact that you have closed beds, the fact that you have low minimum services, the fact that you don't have all the resources available to the public health system, because it has a direct impact on the most obvious service. Missing schedule. The counsellor the other day, at the beginning of this social alarm generated by the flu peak situation, stated that he had caught them by surprise, that this was a matter of time, little less said it was unexpected. The truth is that it surprises this action when -- and I said it the other day in the Health Commission -- at the same time if they were publishing in the same information where experts were coming out saying that they were already planning on when the flu peak would arrive, which strain was the one that was going to act this year, that that strain would be more virulent with the older people -- yes, that's right, Counsellor. At Ourense Hospital Complex it rains on wet. That saying that "never rained that doesn't spread" will be that you won't be able to apply to the Ourense Hospital Complex, because it looks like you won't be able to escape at the moment. The situation is more than pervaded. And that's why we agree with the initiative presented today at Marea and we tabled an amendment simply to urge the CHOU manager to immediately initiate a process of dialogue with workers and workers, to listen to and take into account their demands for reorganisation of services, and especially those of emergencies, and, if this dialogue is not carried out, proceed to their cessation. Because there are neither voices nor demands for the cessation of the manager of the Ourense Hospital Complex, for incompetence and denial of dialogue. The cousin of the president of the board has applied a policy totally behind the reality of the needs of health in Ourense. And I have to tell you again that it is very good that after the board of directors and public appearances they say they are proud of Sergas professionals and thank them for the work done; the president of the government did so, Mr. Noñez Feijóo, and made him the health adviser. I, with this initiative, what I want is to place them on which, in addition to these good words — and it looks very good, resourceful, emotional, fantastic — they listened to them, it would be good for them to listen to and meet the demands of professionals. It would be a good thing if, in addition to these hollow, totally media speeches that soon do not correspond to any performances, they stopped making speeches...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u157	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u158	...and they met the demands of the professionals. As we hope that the proposal will accept the amendment of the BNG, we will nevertheless support the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. We have come today to talk about a situation that affects the CHUOU but which, in fact, is evidence or is another example of the situation of the Greek public health. As you said here, it's not Ourense a special place, or it's not as special as it is to be so different. Besides, I suppose the People's Party likes us to talk a little bit more about downtown Ourense because they always told us that we talked a lot about the Cunqueriro Alvaro. Well, now we've changed the protagonist. I know they didn't like it either because the other day they told us that the Orense Hospital Complex was "to make a bigger hunt," in an unfortunate expression that I understand was not the fruit of any malice, but the fruit of the moment. [[Applause]] And I'm saying that the Ourense Hospital Complex is actually also an example, and it's also a pioneer, and it's quite a pioneer. Tomorrow we will have the opportunity to talk about the peak of the flu and the problems arising from the peak of the flu in January, but Ourense is so pioneer that he had the same problems but already in November: beds by the corridors, staff deficit, people complaining about the bad attention. They're the unions complaining of disunity, of lack of dialogue in Galicia, but this in Ourense has been the case for a long time. There are closed beds in many places in Galicia, but in Ourense we still don't know how many beds will be left, and many of them are still closed. There's a lack of dialogue, there's a shortage of management in some Welsh hospitals, and Ourense is a pioneer, and powerful pioneer, in the deficit of his management. There are privatized services, poor quality in some centers, and in Ourense we don't even know what the kitchen line of the new enlargement is going to be. Let's say Ourense is a pioneer place, a pioneer in beds by the corridors with sick people who have to share for many hours, for more than a day, spaces fifteen or twenty inches each other. Let's say he's a sad pioneer in some things, in a major nursing deficit. Actually, we already know that we're going to be told that we have a problem because we're always talking sick about health. Well, it's not our intention. We try to show our position, because what we do is basically repeat what professionals move us, find out and try to provide some solution. Because the professionals are the ones that are saving Galician public health, and this is working thanks to the professionals. But we're squeezing them, and I'm alerting them to a new problem: professionals are getting to a very important professional burn situation. And we're going to have a problem because we're going to have professionals who won't give more of themselves, and we're going to have a medical problem with professionals, who in turn have to provide medical assistance to patients and citizens in Galicia. So we think that might be a problem. Health is generally in a limited position. I, who are from seaport, this is as if there's a ship that's already complicated when the sea is like a plate, and little by little it rains or makes a little wind, the thing is very complicated, and it's better to have a good boat so that it goes very well when the sea is quiet but be able to endure a bad time when the weather is bad, and we're not at it. What if we are in those more than two hundred million euros in private concerts, the seventy-five a year they give to the Cunqueiro Alvaro, in which there are no equipment in some centres, but there are nine million euros a year that they give to the Cunqueiro Alvaro by agreement with the construction companies, and we have a situation of instability. All of this produces situations like that of the CHUOU, a situation of a staff in absolutely unstable conditions, where it reflects all that is happening in all of the Greek health: staff hired for hours, staff who must be careful if they call him to work for four hours, which then when there is four hours, as you see there's a staff deficit, he's not able to leave. There are many health professionals here, less than in other times, but there are several, who know that a health professional doesn't leave if he has a sick patient and has to assist him because there's an ethical commitment to the profession. So health is also taking advantage of that commitment. But this isn't new, we're not discovering penicillin, Columbus discovered America many years ago, I mean, we're not telling anything new. Health itself has a structural problem. Gustavo Well, everything that lasts is a structure, and what is not a set. And this lasts too long. We have a structural health problem, which can be solved, which can be addressed, with some planning. I'm going to set an example in Ourense: in Ourense there's no Jericho unit, it's the oldest Spanish province, the 65-year-olds triple the under 16, and we don't have a specific attention. Paradoxically, if we turn it around — and we say this in the Commission last week — the Galician neighborhood with more births and higher school population, which is the New Mesoiro, in the Coruña, has no pediatrician right now. Isn't there a schedule program? That this is not to blame anyone for the evils of the world, just that there's a planning problem. Let's face it wisely. I think there was a part of the interventions here that well reflected the situation and pointed to something very interesting: let's face the debate from the real perspective of what happens, let's be able to recognize each other the good things and things not so good. What we do know is that you, the Group of the People's Party, have a majority; I know they're going to tell us, we know you have a majority. I use it to remind them that I already said it — speaking of Ourense — an oresan poet, José Ángel Valente, who wrote: "The worst thing is to believe that you are right only because you had it." We already know that they have most, but there are situations that are being given, we can deny them, but I think that no one wants to deny them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u161	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u162	...so I think that, of all that has been brought, it is very important to be aware of what is happening. It's true that, as comrade Montse Prado said, if we're going to approve a little dot, a little dot, we're gonna do it a little bit and we can still do it. But it's good that we can be able to recognize each other in the debate and build a little bit, which I think is the best we can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u163	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u164	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Mrs. Solla, you've been a lot longer than me as a health voicer, I've got little time in this, but, come on, lessons than I have to say in the committees or I don't think you shouldn't give them, I think I can. I have the same right to think because I've heard a lot of things about health that I don't like, and I also hear them. With respect, today he left a little Ourense, he went a little to the flu epidemic. I was listening on the radio the other day to the Professor of Preventive Medicine and Chief of Preventive Medicine in Santiago, Professor Gestal, who said that this year's flu was not particularly virulent, that he was coming to the peak, that there were fewer dead, that there was more alarm, that he noticed that there was more alarm, and that emergencies at this time were always stuck a little. In fact, there was a full question about Ourense, there was an interpellation, there was Commission last week with the text practically identical to today's text, and today we are proceeding with the motion. The opposition groups' opinion on the catastrophic health situation in Galicia I think it's known by everyone. What happens is that Mrs Solla last month talked a lot about a complaint before the prosecutor, filed at the Public Prosecutor's Office by the workers, and it turns out that this complaint was rejected and today she forgot to mention the complaint to the prosecutor. The prosecutor said that the workers' scale deficits are not framed in a crime of omission of medical help, that there was neither criminal cause nor civil cause to justify such a thing. Indeed, Mr. Torrado said at the committee, as the Cunqueriro seems to be missing, because people already know it and it works well, and there is little protest, because it seems to play Ourense now. I was reviewing the initiatives that two groups have taken me through today, and it turns out that 80 percent of health is from the Ourense hospital. Well, in fact, there is a timely and seasonal problem with the flu epidemic that occurs every year in all countries, in Spain and in all autonomous communities and in all hospitals. In any case, all autonomous communities and hospitals take temporary measures to ensure the most appropriate assistance to all citizens who, for any pathology, have to go to that service. Today Mrs. Solla has no longer dared to speak directly of high premature ones, she has hidden him in the middle of that point that says that we have to give the return figures, because, of course, she has spoken again but without quoting them. It seems to me — I told you in the commission — that using this maliciously is to attack the deontology of professionals. No medical professional gives a discharge that is not indicated by reason of anything, nor by orders from anyone. Any professional who had been subjected or wanted to do or force him to do that would have to go directly to the trial, Mrs. Solla. Facts. Emergency is what it is, it's a place where there's pressure, there's actually the emotional burden of patients. The Chuou Emergency Service has a population-appropriate capacity, reformed and expanded in 2015, creating a new diagnostic and treatment room with more capacity for patients. Previously, in 2013, a new high-earning unit was put into operation; I told you in the commission, Mrs. Solla: the high earlyness is not premature, it's the ones that are under observation more than 24 hours. Today all beds are enabled and the new hospital building is being completed, which will have more beds than today, but it will avoid the rooms of 3 and 4 rooms. There is no need to put beds, as the counsellor said in the middle of last month. But, indeed, there were 3 rooms and I remember with 4 beds in the Coruña hospital, which could not be accessed virtually even to the bathroom. This time we're not going to vote on the telemetry point. We're not going to vote on the telemetry point because telemetry is working today. I announced to you at the commission that he was installing, that he was about to finish and today the telemetry and cardiology beds are working. He was talking about the interns. I've already told you in the commission that the Chuou internists are the same as the CHUS, even more than the Chuvi, who can compare the area and population of the area. Emergency personnel are suitable: there are 34 doctors, 45 nurses, 38 auxiliaries, 38 janitors, 14 administrative staff; they are in the SEMES criteria. They were taken by the management team measures to cover the casualties, even all Christmas holidays, which is very hard to get substitutes at Christmas; they were covered. The telemetry is installed, and of course everything in this life is improved, but we think from this group that the Ourense Hospital and its Emergency Service is equipped with a suitable staff framework, which has been improved in recent years and is going to improve much more with the opening of the new hospital building. That's why we're not going to accept your initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u165	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u166	Thank you, President. Mr. Centeno, this is not an epidemiological debate. At other times we've been debating here about the prevalence of diseases, about vaccines, about a lot of things, but now we're talking about what's a problem in the emergencies that's chronicled, and therefore it's not a debate that fits into a single, punctual peak by a disease, in this case the flu. And no, I didn't forget the denunciation; in fact, you move it here today, and repeat it already in the commission the other day, because, as some people haven't heard it, it seems to be the first time you say it. But it really doesn't matter what happened to the prosecutor's own opinion. I personally would like it to be investigated, because I believe, regardless of the outcome of this research, that there are insufficient resources and that there is a obvious problem; otherwise, I would not bring this initiative here. But I've already told you that the Prosecutor's opinion in that file was precisely that complaint said it wasn't the Prosecutor's responsibility for the management of public services. And I've already moved you that when the professionals see themselves so surrounded, if they see so much vilipendians and, as they don't hear them, they have to go to the prosecutor's office, it's because that's precisely what the prosecutor's office says, that whoever has to manage these public services is not doing it right and is not listening to the professionals. In that sense, we will obviously accept — as we accept in the committee — the amendment made by the Nationalist Block Galego. It's not a matter of time, and we don't use it maliciously, maybe you do. But I repeat to you what I said earlier: if you don't have any problem with the return data in the emergency services, with the data on how many beds you're going to stay, you won't have any problem voting in favour of the points of this initiative, because you shouldn't be afraid of the information, except for the little problem that, surely, when we know the data we're asking for, your management will be in an inquisitive. So we're going to ask the Bureau again for a point vote, so you can have the opportunity to move if you're really scared or not afraid to give information, if you're transparent or you're a dark government. Besides, it's over: you vote for a point on an initiative in a committee, you say we repeat the same points again, and today you are told that you can't vote in favour because it's already working. Well, in about six days they put the service to work, eh!, fantastic!, and that's why they can't vote the point in favor. That's the absence of the People's Party's commitment to public health. And of course, there are the same internists who in Vigo and I don't know where; however, you — depending on which initiative — love to talk about the demographic problem and the increase in population age, but not in this one, not in this one. We don't talk about the need for ratios according to population age and the chronicity of disease. That doesn't matter. And we can move the interns from the Vernal Hospital to the Ourense Hospital, because that's how it looks very good and it doesn't come out in the media that there's not enough staff. Honestly, there is no possibility, as far as you can see, of having a moderately serious debate on this matter, regardless of whether we differ in the design of the model, because you don't even want to provide the data requested at the initiative. So we're going to give them the chance, and if they vote that they don't, they'll be once again portrayed. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. About the Block Amendment, will you accept it? [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] He accepted, yes. Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u168	We are going to vote, and we are only going to vote on the second motion, because, according to the spokesmen, the motion that appears in the first place will be voted on tomorrow, because it is in the negotiation. We therefore vote on the motion of the En Marea Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the health care situation. She has already stated that she accepted the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and asked for a point vote; then, she has a right, and it is five gentlemen, it is not wrong to say that she has a right and not, I don't know what strange cause this. [[Murmurs.]] I think it makes sense to say it. We therefore vote for the five points. Do you have to be the five separately or can you group some? [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Separately. So we started by voting on the first point of the motion. We vote. Vote for the first point of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the health care situation The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u169	Let us vote on the second point of this motion. We vote. Second point vote on the G.P. Motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the health care situation The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u170	Let us vote on the third point. We vote. The third point of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion shall be voted on. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the health care situation The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u171	Let's vote for the fourth point now. We vote. Fourth point vote on the G.P. Motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the health care situation The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u172	Finally, we voted on the fifth point of the motion. We vote. Voting of the fifth point of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the health care situation The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u173	Mr. Lawyer, a consultation. The amendment of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which has been accepted, is already included; therefore, the votes have been taken. We move on to the third point of the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and four other Members, on the approval by the Government of Galicia of the rule governing the recruitment regime of the staff labour investigator of the Public Service of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u174	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u175	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Blanco Paradelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u176	Good afternoon, gentlemen. We want to speak with this initiative of the pioneer Galicia, but of the pioneer Galicia in a positive way, as I will try to expose myself to the introduction. The developments in research and innovation in recent years have made it necessary to develop new regulatory frameworks in order to achieve greater momentum in this area. In December 2013, the Council of the European Union formally adopted the new rules, the legislation it will govern in the European Union for the period 2014-2020, in order to make the European economy a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy. Within the action to achieve this objective, and as a follow-up to the previous framework programmes, the Horizon 2020 programme was approved, spending around EUR 80 million for the period 2014-2020, with the aim of bringing the ideas of laboratories to markets, eliminating barriers to innovation and facilitating collaboration between the public and private sectors, in order to ensure Europe's overall competitiveness and sustainable growth, placing special emphasis on scientific excellence and industrial leadership towards the welfare state. The ahead program includes regional strategies for smart specialization, known as the RIS3, and we have to say that the Galician community was the first in the state to propose its RIS3 strategy and submit it to the European Union authorities, obtaining a great welcome and support, which allowed it to launch almost immediately. In addition, he did so through a participatory process, coordinated by the Galega Innovation Agency, in which all the agents of the Galician Innovation System intervened, from the different departments of the autonomous administration itself to citizenship, through other institutions and economic and social agents, publicly presenting on 25 March 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Greece has already been able to help universities, technology centres and companies in Greece to raise funds for the first three years, 2014, 2015 and 2016, of the programme — as I said — Horizon 2020, which claimed a return of more than 41 million euros, which almost tripled that achieved in the same period of the previous programme in 2007, 2008 and 2009. In the autonomic field, Law 5/2013, of 30 June, on the promotion of Galician research and innovation, in which the Greek Research and Innovation Plan was developed, as a fundamental tool for planning and coordinating research, transfer, valorisation and innovation policies in Galicia, also known as Plan I2C, or even the Opportunius program for the incorporation and return of researchers, or the Principle program. But we, far from conforming, want to achieve more, and we know that much more needs to be done. Last week, in Commission 6a, we approved an initiative in which we proposed calling on the Galician Summit to encourage the necessary measures to increase the collection of Community funds for R & D+i by the Greek entities, with particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, within the framework of existing European funding programmes for these activities, by hearing the opposition groups to reach broad consensus in the momentum of the R & D in Galicia, as we are also doing today with this initiative, which seeks only to speed up, encourage the adoption as soon as possible of a rule that regulates the recruitment regime of labour investigators of the Autonomous Community Administration of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia must continue to make an additional effort to address the challenge of its development and its consolidation and internationalization, as it was starting from a position below the average of the autonomous communities and regions of the European Union. In a context of economic crisis like ours, Galicia was able to do more with less. And, as I said before, it was from the state's first autonomous communities to propose its RIS strategy, setting out priority lines of action that include twenty instruments, among which the retention, incorporation and mobility programme of talent, as we were pioneers, and I would like to remind you, of the adoption of Galicia's Telecommunications and Infrastructure Act, or even what the vice president said this morning at the electronic judicial headquarters. Therefore, taking into account the Strategic Plan of Galicia and the need to develop Law 14/2011, of June 1, of science, technology and innovation, we intend to promote a standard that will re-place Galicia in the head, being pioneers in Spain to regulate the employee's employment regime that performs his work in research centres of the Autonomic Administration, a staff that can be hired through the public bodies of the Galician Union that develop their scientific work in the fields of innovation and health for a period of four or five years, depending on the nature of the contract. This draft decree responds to the need to address the challenge of consolidating the development and internationalization of our Autonomous Community and the importance of promoting research to achieve a more competitive market economy and enabling greater job creation. What is intended, ladies and gentlemen, is to ensure that a new legal framework can be established which takes into account the importance of human capital with greater training towards progress and the improvement of the quality of life of citizens, which takes into account the repeated demands of members of the Spanish foreign scientific group and others who are sensitive to these — as I say — demands. So, ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Union will for the first time create the figure of the investigator's staff and will include it in the autonomic administration's employment catalogue, with the aim of favoring the retention of scientific talent in our community. And, of course, the selection of these staff should be based on the principles of equality, public competition and competitiveness, taking into account for this selection the different regulations and procedures for the selection of teaching staff and researchers from universities and the Higher Council of Scientific Research (CSIC); since, therefore, it is necessary to establish objective criteria and reflect excellence in the tasks of R & D+i carried out by the aspirants. We are also, of course, convinced that this decree should contemplate the working conditions of the hired investigator, as well as the schedules, permits, vacations, pay, duration and extension of contract time, and should also consider, whenever possible, the possibility of carrying out training stays in other R & D+i centres and transfer of technology to others and prestige. For the above reasons, therefore, we would like to introduce this initiative to you in order for the Galician Parliament to urge the Union to adopt the rule governing the recruitment regime of staff labour investigators of the Galician Autonomous Community Administration. Today we have been listening here all day appealing the different groups to the consensus, to the agreement. So today I — just like we did the other day at the committee — also appeal, ladies and gentlemen, to a great deal of agreement on something as important as it is to retain talent and to bet on this case for the research quality of our young people and our girls. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u177	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u178	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Blanco, it is surprising — or I do not know it — that this initiative is presented by the People's Group as a matter of urgency. I say it is surprising — at some point I would almost say that it can be a certain exercise of political and even parliamentary pharisaism — because Law 5/2013, of promoting research and innovation in Galicia, because it already has this time. And it is more, as we all know — and I quote you in the explanatory statement — that the Transparency Portal already published a draft decree, at the initiative of the Directorate-General for Public Service, on 18 March 2016, with a deadline for submitting suggestions, which ended on 31 March 2016, so we don't know what happened with that draft decree, which I find to be the different sectors of the end of Galician investigation received for report. That is why I say it is not surprising if it is one of Galicia's strategic priorities — as demonstrated by the RIS3 itself and the necessary funds to be obtained in the H2020 programme — that this proposal is now being brought about as a matter of urgency. But in the end we will conclude that it is indeed urgent. Just five or six data that are eloquent of the commitment that there has been in Galicia these years in research and development and above all in terms of empowering the research staff in Galicia. Apart from that Galicia is located at 0.89 GDP in R & D, when it was at some 1% in 2009 -- the OECD average may be 2%, and we would be formulating an ambitious target of 1.3, but we need to achieve -- we have some data. Researchers per 1,000 busy: Galicia in 2010 had a 6.1 down to 5.3 in 2015, Spain had 7.2 down to 6.9; that is, while Galicia lost 13 percentage points, Spain was losing too, but only 4 points. Data from the Report of the Spanish University in figures from the CRUE: in the period 2010-2014 research expenditure in Galicia fell by 18%. But we're going to the INE data on personal investigators as well. But first of all to comment also on the total investment of R & D in Spain, just a little more — not just — of EUR 13,000 million, Madrid is representing 25%, Catalonia is representing 23.5%, Andalusia — sometimes the so disused Andalusia — is assuming 10.6% in R & D, Basque Country 9% and Galicia 3.8. But Galicia represents little more than 5% of GDP and the Basque Country 6%, but douplicans or triplets in the bet on research and development. And let's go to R & D personnel data equivalent to full-time. INE data: Galicia in 2010 had a total of 10,809 troops, when in 2015 it was in 9,037; we lost 1,772 full-time researchers in these five years. But the private sector has not lost the most, because the company has fallen from 3,600 to 3,400, but the public administration sector has fallen from 1,800 to 1,300 — nearly 500 — and the university system has fallen 1,075. I mean, the drop in Galicia of personal investigators in those last five data -- INE data -- is 17%. That's why if it's easy to come to the conclusion that it's really urgent, but it was urgent in 2014, it was urgent in 2013... and that's why we need it no longer to recover but rather a strong bet on research and development. And in this particular issue, we tabled an amendment to ensure that the proposal presented by the People's Party has commitments, commitments of economic memory, commitments of cost allocation, budget allocation, criteria of action and timetables for recruiting investigators for the entire term of office of 2017-2020. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u179	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u180	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. This proposal by the People's Group is part of those initiatives that we can call "botafumeiro", which is what happens in this case to the botafumeiro because he has some color that is not very botafumeiro, and, in addition, he talks about a subject in which there are, in fact, many more shadows than you can see in recent years. In fact, it's been three years since the German law was passed — it's been five since the state law was passed — and there was time to put these kinds of initiatives into effect. So we're glad they're coming with an urgent initiative now, but they've had time to put it in motion. And the truth is that ten months ago, the Galician Board issued a statement stating that the Board will create the figure of the investigator's staff, will include it in the catalogue of jobs to favor the retention of talent in Galicia, they can be hired by public bodies of the Union, there will be three types of contracts... i.e., ten months ago they started the development of this standard and none of it is known, I don't know very well what the reason for this delay is. In any case, if you go now, then, of course, and an improvement in the current situation — which we trust to be so — will of course count on the support of this group. It's a common place to talk about that in times of crisis we have to change the production model, we have to bet on the economy of knowledge and innovation. The reality is that Galicia hasn't done it in the last five or six years, the reality is that the situation has been the worst, and so all the statistics say, among them the INE 2015 statistics, which refer to the activity of scientific innovation and technological development, which speak of the punishment, of the strong decline in public investment in innovation and research, with a reduction of 20% of the investigator's staff in both public administration and university. On 22.10.2013 Mr. Feijóo provided us with one of his famous phrases: "The goal is to provide opportunities to curb the migration of highly qualified young people in our country and avoid blank pages in the history of the Greek R & D+i." I don't know if there were blank pages, but, of course, there were many black pages for the investigator's staff, who had to pick up the suitcase to leave the country, who stayed on the way, who couldn't develop his research career, because Galicia occupied and occupied the state's latest research positions. It occupies the 12th of 17, only behind Murcia, Extremadura, Castela-A Mancha, Canarias and Balearics; it is not, of course, as to boast. We have an expense of 0.9% in R+D+i, when the average state is 1.3% and investment in this matter has fallen more in Galicia than in the average state in recent years. This is what the German Research, Innovation and Growth Plan 2011-2015 said: "The general objective is the convergence of the Greek R & D+i effort with the effort of the state as a whole, which in no case should be less than 2% of GDP in 2015"; 2% of GDP in 2015; we are at 0.9% in 2017. And it says, "digit that will put us in the path of accessing the target set by the EU by 2020 of 3% of GDP." So, all these years, 2009-2015, it was a missed opportunity. We lost the train of innovation, research and knowledge, a train and a path that put that government so disenchanted by you, the two-party government. The two-party government made a real bet on innovation and research, made a serious attempt to create the research career in Galicia, to create a body of research staff, with that Incite Plan, to promote research, with post-doctoral contracts, with the programs Angeles Alvariño, with the program Parga Pondal, which you laminated as soon as they arrived at the Government, leaving many people on the way. So of course we are committed to the creation of a single investigative body in Galicia, to its stability, to its security, to ensuring its labor rights, of course. And we think, in addition, that body must be managed by the Greek Government in coordination with universities, research centers and technology centers. And we also think that this regulation which is intended to be adopted should also try to be applied in the field of other administrations, and specifically in the field of university, so that there is no difference between the staff investigator according to work for one administration or another, even if there is, as there is now, differences between the different universities in this field. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u181	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u182	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I have to begin my speech with a brief comment on the content. We think that bringing to this House a matter as serious as research, which compromises the future of our country, and talking about the need to regulate the recruitment regime of the staff labour investigator of the Administration, is clearly insufficient. It is certainly very limiting the parliamentary debate, which is usually the case; you love to talk about the details and get the background discussions. That's why, and because of your reading we have a lot more doubt than certain, we bring here what we consider the fundamental question, in order to be able to position ourselves with this proposal: will you carry out a real bet by the R & D+i, with a budget set up, or will you keep looking to the other side, expelling scientific talent from Galicia? Because this is what for our parliamentary group is truly fundamental. In view of the draft decree, we imagine that it is not, and what is worse: we see that its concern in working precariousness for researchers and researchers in this country remains. You're still talking about a maximum of five years in contracts. This, ladies and gentlemen, all you'll do is keep giving bread for today and hunger for tomorrow and keep us away from the real need of R & D+i in our country: financing and stabilization. On the contrary, it will continue to spend money on highly qualified staff, which, as is happening, continues to provide universities and businesses abroad. What emerges from the reading of your proposal is that we can agree in the diagnosis of the situation. It is true that there is an important staff deficit that is highly trained in R+D+i tasks. It seems clear that we are not going to coincide is in the analysis of causes or possible solutions. We know that it would be quite difficult to get up here and say something different than being in favour of research or innovation. Who would come up here and say you're against a change in the production model? No one would use it. Of course, President Feijóo wouldn't use it. As Mr Bará has just reminded us, Feijóo, without any noise, reiterated his commitment to R & D+i despite being the maximum responsible for a government guilty of dismantling research equipment, interrupting fundamental research projects, the fall of patents, as well as the delay of up to five years in calls for post-doctoral research scholarships, which involved the absence of opportunities for those who wanted to bet on research in our country; that is zero, clear cuts. But, as usual, the facts say more about you than their words. There is no need to review the budgets since they arrived at the Government to check that innovation has never been one of the priorities of their government action, because what they need are resources; resources, not empty slogans, resources. According to a study on investment in R & D+i in the Spanish State of EAE Business School — which is not suspected of ideologically matching with us — in Galicia this investment has only dropped since the maximum reached in 2009, with a figure equivalent to 0.96 % of GDP, to be around 0.87 % in 2012. In that year, investment was reduced to 6.5%, a decline of two points greater than the one experienced in the state as a whole and which leaves our country in the 12th place regarding the commitment to innovation. Mr. Blanco, please, are you going to say that in the investigation you've done more with less? Do you have any shame in saying that in the investigation they've done more with less? Let's be serious, because the real, objective indicators, which cannot be discussed, of R & D+i insist on denying their words, showing very worrying figures that compromise the future of our country and our people, which make it difficult for Galicia to compete in a globalized economy. And just looking at the part that we're reaching out for human resources today, we've seen -- as we've already said here -- that the investigator's staff has fallen by 20%. This meant 600 researchers and researchers less at universities. Mr. Blanco, you said they brought ideas to the market, but it's not true; what they took was researchers and researchers, or unemployment or exile. So after you've repeatedly reduced the budget, you're sorry now that the investigator's staff is insufficient is like the student who hasn't studied and complains about suspending; because it can be done, but you'll agree with me that it's not serious. Sorry is the cut. The reality, however, is that you decide that it is a priority and not a priority. So, for example, in Portugal, despite having applied the very hard cuts, R+D+i didn't touch. The result is that we are already suffering: forced and diaspora emigration of the scientific potential of this country, hundreds of researchers and researchers here despise, but they are welcome in universities abroad, the absence of the existence of Welsh emerging companies based on science, technology, and immobilization. In the future it will be zero, back to those figures in 2009. And in the meantime, a lost generation and thousands of lost opportunities. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. The first thing I have to say is that I want to thank the speaker who had in this case the spokesman of the Socialist Group, who, in addition, has tabled an amendment; it means that he has intent or would at least like to reach some agreement to vote in favour. I already tell you that, as the amendment is, it's complicated, but I'm willing to offer you some transaction; if you want, then we can talk about some shade of your amendment. Usually, when the People's Group presents an initiative, opposition groups — some more than others — say that they get angry, say that, of course, it's botafume; as I don't present the initiative, because I don't like it, and how I don't like it, because we're going to see if we find ourselves, instead of investing their time in preparing the initiative for proposals and being constructive, invest the time in searching around there any kind of negative argument that can therefore try to pull the proposal down. Then, it's funny to hear that they say that — moreover, they've agreed both in Marea and in BNG — who can't agree to bet on a change of production model and they've been voting "no" for four years here at all. Any sort of initiative that brought this government, any project in the field of innovation, research, R & D+i, they voted "no" at all, and up to the mind of what it was in a project like the drone-unmanned aircraft, which was an innovative pioneer example, in Rozas, in Lugo, they were doing everything possible to see if they could pull the project down, until they were there, mounted their show, they were looking to see if the troops there appeared, the soldiers, and nothing appeared. Then they realized they were making fun of it. How are we going to believe that you want to bet on changes in the production model, that you want to bet on innovation? That's all that's impossible. Look, I can remember some data, which I also say to you — I know there will be a member of Parliament who seems to be wrong —: the execution of the technological background at the time of the Bipartite, when the Government of Feijóo arrived at the government, was at 5%; that was Mr Bará, the great management. Or, as I told you earlier, the fundraising in 2014, 2015 and 2016 tripled that of the year, in this case, 2008 and 2009, to those years, tripled it. So how can you set an example here for Bipartite's innovation policy? Look, we're going to tell you official statistics too, because instead of looking for initiatives, instead of looking for arguments against you, I want to point out that Junta is making a clear bet on R & D+i investment despite the difficulties, despite that model change, despite having to bet on that necessary public-private collaboration, which you don't talk about either, and so prove it about 600 million euros mobilized by the RIS3 strategy of expertise, which you all criticized from the first day. I thought, why are they against the RIS3 Specialization Strategy? And now they come to say that you agree with a change in production model. It is also important to remember that the budget of the Galician Innovation Agency for 2017 increases again by 3.7%, up to over 63 million euros. What Snippets? And, in addition, it binds up four years of consecutive growth. So what are they talking about? Change the speech a little bit, change the speech. I also want to tell you that the latest official data put Galicia as the third community with the largest increase in R & D spending during 2015, and in absolute terms 19.3 million euros more than in 2014, only behind Catalonia and Madrid. Thus, R & D expenditure in Galicia also increased by 4% compared to 2.7% that grew in Spain. I would like to highlight, in conclusion, the increase in R & D expenditure by the Public Administration, which increases by 10.4% compared to 4.6% of the State. And finally, of course — we do not deny it at any time — the R & D expenditure on GDP in Galicia began the recovery path from the worst level of the crisis, since 2013, that you too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u186	...negan. So I ask you to join this constructive initiative, if you really want to bet on holding back and on Galicia's innovative talent. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u187	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government for information relating to the real cost for the public era of the decision to sell Novagalicia Banco in advance, as well as the publication of the documents that substantiated that agreement
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u188	To formulate this non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u189	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to begin this intervention by recalling — putting things a little in context — how the people of this country have carried more than one luxury, seeing how, under the excuse of this so popular crisis, our rights have been progressively emptied of real content and how the system and the complicit political forces have squandered under this excuse the public services and we have a future and a present of precaution that they want us to accept with submission and without questioning anything at all. The repeat force was also used to listening every day on the news, almost like a routine part of the news at the time or at the time of sports, as millions and millions of euros from the public era were destined precisely to rescue the bank, rescue the bank with public money while the living conditions of the majority of society worsened. And this was justified as if it were a Biblical plague, as if it were not the direct consequences of a crisis system, in economic crisis, in institutional crisis and in crisis of legitimacy, for punishing, precisely, more people who had less responsibility in that crisis. However, as Galicia is fortunately not a people for nothing to submit or communicate with mill wheels, thanks to the strength of people and collectives who did not believe this, who did not resign and who fought in the streets and in the courts, came to light upon the darkness. In this way, exemplary struggles of dignity of our people, such as that of the favorites, were making, piece by piece, a puzzle that sheds light on what's behind, piece by piece were unearthing the puzzle of a rotten banking system and without the slightest public control. But this is still, unfortunately, an incomplete puzzle, where there are still many pieces missing from the trial of this parliamentary group; that is why we bring this initiative. There are no pieces left to know the real scope of a lot of abusive practices and to know how much public money — and with what criteria — of all of them and all of them were destined to banks and what was the result. This is precisely what we want to focus our attention on today, even though there are a lot of side issues going on. Moreover, if we take into account the recent news of the last month, in which we have especially two facts that we would like to point out and that they highlight the need and urgency to clarify the earlier figures of the sale of Novagalicia Banco and to monitor a rotten banking system, as I said, and continuously rescued with public money without being questioned either the background or the form. There are two recent facts that should put the alarms back in the public debate lecture. One of them is that we know a new sentence, the December 2016 European Union, that I certify that these ground clauses, as they are popularly known, are absolutely illegal and I dare say that you are immoral; in particular, in our country they affect above all the entity we know today as Banca. On the other hand, we were also able to know the report of the State Court of Auditors assessing the banking restructuring process between 2009 and 2015, which reveals that the state rescue of cash has been made — and that is what the Court of Auditors says — without any criterion and without the necessary control to ensure the efficient use of all the money. Moreover, the Court of Auditors' report gives concrete and worrying information about the sale of Novagalicia Banco. By pointing out only one question, he gathered that the Rectora Commission agreed in December 2013 to award the contract for the sale of shares, of ownership, as you know, of FROB and the Guarantee Fund, without the agreement indicating the maximum amounts of the guarantees that were finally granted at the formalised purchase on 25 June 2014; facts of absolute seriousness and which raise two issues that we have been reporting since the BNG. First of all, the absolute lack of public control, in the past and in the present, about banking activity, root in its background and also in its restructuring process, because we have a state and governments fully served in the interests of Abanca. On the other hand, that rescues him, the mortgage on the public era, which involves all this matter with Abanca, is not over. Explain. From the public accounts, if we go through it, not only EUR 8,981 million was allocated to clean up Novagalicia Banco, not just. It's not just that after it had been sold for just over 1 billion, remembering that, for example, FROB itself recognized that this sale was supposed to be lost to the state of more than 8 billion euros. It's not just that. It is that FROB underestimated the costs of selling because it underestimated the cost of those public coverages that the buyer benefited from. And what do we mean by this that sounds so abstract and so technical? Because at that cost of sanitation it's not being added, it's not being efficiently valued what I assumed that sales deal. I am referring, by way of brief, to two very specific issues we know in this country, of a band, all those costs derived from the responsibility of marketing preferences and subordinate obligations and, on the other hand, — surprise! — the costs derived also from those known as ground clauses. I mean, now the FROB, with all the money, will have to assume up to 85% of the accounts of those returns, because that's what was agreed on in the terms of the sale of Novagalicia Banco, a document that has the Court of Auditors, because, as always, this House and this country continue to adopt an important lack of information on all these issues. That's why we've come to claim here today, especially information and transparency, so that we can judge what happened, how it was handled and learned from mistakes in the future. This is all in a context in which, I insist, we still have no clear information on why this sale was earlier, which could have developed until December 31 of this year that we just started and which was rushed, we still don't know why, as early as 2013. Finally, since BNG we understand that it is essential to deepen this issue. In addition, we have already pointed out, in many matters, as in that advance, in the consumption of the advance of the postage process, that both the memorandum and the specific restructuring plan have been breached. Thus, the sale has already had some costs that the Court of Auditors evaluates by 31 December 2015 in more than 9,000 million euros. That is already indicative of how serious this is for the public era, but, as the Court of Auditors rightly points out, this is a growing debt, it's a growing debt. So much so that this is going to increase precisely from questions derived such as the consequences of the ground clause or the preferential and subordinate obligations. I'm going to end up focusing this initiative on the context we're in. We understand that this is a new opportunity for Parliament, a new opportunity for you too, for the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. A new opportunity to, in the face of the passing of time, before there are more and more reasons why it is absolutely necessary, now to the thread of the problem of ground clauses, to shed light on that puzzle of the great calote which I have subjected to the sale of Novagalicia Bank in advance, to light up and give information. We offer this new opportunity today before the vote on this initiative, also in a week yesterday when we opened a commission that we hope will finally be more ambitious than you want to allow. I am already glad — the truth — that it had been yesterday that the constitution of the table, because, listening to Mr. Martínez on Sunday, I went to sleep a little alarmed, because I had not yet begun the commission of inquiry and Mr. Martínez — which is a pity I was not here — already wanted to close it; an unheard of thing, at last. We consider this to be absolutely important and fundamental to this fundamental right to information, to information about the fate and use of public resources. I used to, when I referred to the struggles in this country that shed light on this matter, I pretended to fights in the street and the judges. And I didn't quote this institution on purpose, because the fact is that what has been done here is absolutely insufficient and it is not up to what the neighbours and neighbours of this country are demanding from the institutions. That is why we demand and ask all parliamentary groups to support this initiative, because it is not only about knowing the cost, but about giving light to the actions carried out, because it is clear that they have been decisions with total opacity and with serious consequences for our public era and also for the financing and development of the Greek economy. Finally, we call for support for this initiative because we really believe that voting against this initiative is against this right to transparency, both this right of information from this Parliament and from all of us, and because voting against this initiative is against knowing that money is used and voting against how much it really cost an operation whose debt continues to grow and which has been absolutely dark. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I shall begin, Mrs Presas, by saying that the Socialist Group will support this initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block. I never thought I should quote Donald Trump and his team in this Parliament, but I will. Then, the day after the take of possession, that take of possession that to all or some of us terrorized us a little, Donald Trump's press chief said that the White House now defends that there are "alternative facts" to analyze reality. I've been wondering here for a long time what it means to be poorer in 2009 than in 2016, who emigrated more people in 2009 than in 2016, or even today Mr. Feijóo, once again missing the truth, saying that the opposition groups, in this case the Socialist Group, were asking for more deficits. When we were talking about deficits, we were talking about that advertising slogan of zero deficit elections, and we were saying that in a context of strong economic recession that procyclical policy was absolutely unfortunate, and whenever we talked about spending, we talked about where to get that expenditure. So, these alternative facts, these alternative reports that happen to that downturn, which have already been cooking there, are exactly a perfect analytical framework for what happened to the Saving Box Commission in this Parliament. I started an interview with Mr. Feijóo on October 19, 2014 in the Faro de Vigo newspaper. Almost a year and a half after that July marathon in which in a few morning, evening and almost evening days, with an absolutely unbearable rush, because really the country's political balance was perigating, for it was necessary to make a drum of appearances. He said textually: "We are not afraid to analyze anything in the Savings Box Commission, which we proposed to create." Take it now! After two years of voting against it, in fact, it was finally adopted with the votes of the majority. There was obviously no committee to vote against. But "we proposed to create ourselves"! As an alternative, the fact that we've been completely used to is the fact that we've been used to it. Mr. Feijóo also emptied the other day, with great speed, in some media, the reproduction of the letter he sent to the governor of the Banco de España, to Mr. Miguel Ángel Fernández Ordóñez, concerning the remuneration of the high offices of Novagalicia Banco. I do not understand why, if he was so sure of his position, he did not allow Mr. Fernández Ordóñez to come to this commission in September — I insist — in September 2013. I mean, there seems to be a suitable margin for a smooth landing. And in the same way, Mr. Feijóo said on November 5, 2010, he said textually: "I congratulate the highest responsible for the Greek boxes for their work and their generosity." To change history, to pass on to reality, to move on to these alternative events ends up being a weary process, to end up being a process, even for the President of the Union, sometimes confused — in some way — to say it. It's necessary to keep a lot of posters, to keep a lot of inexplicable positions. I repeat once again that three and a half years ago these appearances took place and, of course, in the opinion of this spokesman and the Socialist Group, who had absolutely darkness. And indeed, this Sunday—the voicer of the Galego Nationalist Block said—the counselor of Fairy—in the end, I don't know whether it's a post-truth or a fact, I think it's paranormal powers—he said, "It's not good to always be checking. I believe that the question is sufficiently clear." It is also true that he said that he came here to discuss management, but that could be an orientation — as he said in some way —. This, that this issue is quite clear, literally, or polygraph or paranormal powers. [[Applause]] And, as I suppose it isn't either of these two things, what it's about is to make a new story in which literally the political role played by Mr. Feijóo and the Council of Galicia is liquefied and disappeared. That is the fundamental objective of this process. And indeed, the Court of Auditors spoke of these 41,700 million euros of cost of the banking restructuring process; it speaks of the absence of clear strategies, of errors of procedure, of opacity in rescues, of opacity in the sale of some entities; finally, all that battery of issues that we have seen denounce and that no one has explained. This is exactly like that difference between social security affiliates and registered unemployed. I mean, why did you sell so quickly Novagalicia Banco? I mean, what report was based on a decision that, seeing the financial results of the Abanca group, was clearly harmful to the public interests of this autonomous community...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u192	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u193	...—I have finished, Mr President—or indeed the whole of the Government of Spain? And, of course, we believe that this question is necessary to study it, without any doubt. And then we're still saying that it can't be that you focus exclusively on a Governor of the Bank of Spain the responsibility — whether you have it or not — of a process that goes beyond the years Mr. Fernández Ordonez held that position. And, therefore, Mr. Caruana, who I would like to remind you that he was governor of the Banco de España until March 2006 -- that is, he was already Mr. Touriño, who left office...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u195	...in effective, necessary control of savings banks... —,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u196	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u197	...why didn't the People's Party want Mr. Caruana to come? And, of course, it seems, he doesn't want Mr. Linde to come here either, which is enough to hear it today to see that he's a good tactical ally of the People's Party. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u198	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u199	Good afternoon. Mr. Losada quoted Trump, I quote Carlos Gardel: "the one who doesn't cry in the breast," and, above all, "the one who doesn't hurry is a gil." And today in the plenary, in the non-law propositions, we're just going to talk about three big scams, which show how the system itself is or has severely corrupt elements. We're going to talk about AP-9, a large multi-millionaire scam, with certain beneficiaries; we're going to talk about the ground clauses and, therefore, about the conviviality of successive governments with the bank to abuse consumers; and we're going to talk about the result of the merger of the boxes, that Welsh box that Mr Feijóo promised and that ended up being a Venezuelan bank, we're going to talk about the Newgaly Banco sales process. And then we have to conclude that this is a real scandal. I'm still surprised, I'm still outraged by how these things we're not able to transfer them to society in its true magnitude. It is scandalous that this Parliament, where in theory the sovereignty of the Greek people resides, during that process of sale there was nothing known, I could not say anything, because I knew nothing of any of the documents, of none of the decisions, of how they were made, on the basis of what criteria they took, nothing at all, a real shame; and if Mr. Feijóo knew it and was complicit, for we know also which side Mr. Feijóo is on; and if he did not know it also Mr. Feijóo, it is irrelevant as President of this country. And we didn't know. We were making the decision about the cash or banking entity that brings together 40% of the savings of the Greeks and we didn't know why if we decided to anticipate the sale, that accelerated investment, we didn't know on what criteria and we didn't know what conditions. Is that transparency or what is it? Because opacity is obviously an indispensable element for carrying out these thefts, robbery to people, and it was the essential opacity for this sale process without causing a capital social scandal. We live in a country where anyone who steals to eat is a criminal, but those who steals full hands, hundreds of millions, is a respectable representative of the system, who does things like this, like the sale of Novagalicia Banco, after being rescued with 9,000 million euros of public money, for 1,003 million euros, and, as well explained Noa, with tax benefits and benefits at the expense of the public record, several, which we still don't even know the amount it is, which is what is required in this initiative. For they are also respectable, men of the system; on the other hand, those who protest and those who protest in front of Congress, in front of Parliament, are dangerous anti-systems. It's a scandal. What did this government do to ensure that the Greeks and the Greeks knew what was being done during the sale process? Nothing. We asked for information at the moment and we were denied. We don't know if Joine demanded it or not. Mr. Feijóo said nothing while he was deciding about saving the Greeks, nothing, and that the process leaves much to wish, beyond the outcome of the process, beyond that result of handing over the Greek savings to a Venezuelan bank for 1,003 million euros after being cured with 9,000. We ask at the moment that Mackinsey report, which advised the accelerated de-investment, i.e., to sell three or four years before the permit Novagalicia Banco, without knowing why; curious circumstances also that most people, of citizenship, don't know. Whoever made the decision to sell this bank was an American auditor, famous for turning doors, for protecting privatization processes, ending up putting their privatized entities in front of them. Do you think you can defend the interests of Greek citizenship Mackinsey, without any public control or no public control, without any more control than the FROB — by the way, the FROB when Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Puy, was already ruling here was no longer Zapatero and you were also in the Union — without any control, without any knowledge. Why are you advised to sell before time? You think this isn't a scandal? We also requested the BNP Paribas report and the two diligence, prepared by PricewaterhouseCooper. I don't give it to us either, we've been denied. So that entity that represented 40% of the savings was sold without us being able to say anything in this institution, not opinion or know. Your Government and you put the blame on the merger, the responsibilities to FROB when Zapatero was there, not to say that you did not object to all the measures Mr Zapatero took regarding the management of the box system. But who was in the State Government and the United States Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u200	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u201	...when was the sale process, Mr. Puy? I'm done. Well, there's also been a change in terms of sales. There were two defendants who changed the terms of the sale, as the FROB himself said, which favours a greater capitalization of the bank. It benefits the entity, whatever its owners, banks or funds. This is literal. It has changed and the terms of sale have not been changed. We don't know if we did good business or bad business with that sale. We can't know. Clearly, opacity is necessary. We don't even know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u202	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u203	...—I'm done, half a minute...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u204	No, half a minute is too long, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u205	In the cashier's committee that came out, they talked about Mr. Valeriano Martínez. By saying here by Mr. Puy in the approved commission request, who will manage the times is Mr. Puy. He decided to cool it for two years, because he wanted me to, because I'm worth it, and now maybe he wants to warm it up, to make it quick, to make it quick.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u207	...don't provide the documentation and of course don't open the investigation commission to this process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u208	Thank you very much. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u209	Yes, briefly, because he doesn't deserve much more. Mr President, I would like to say that in order to investigate the millionaire compensation, it seemed reasonable to wait until the procedure was completed in the Supreme Court. Now we know it's what happened, we know there's been a crime and it's proven judicially. You keep watching. If you want to join the investigation committee, you'll be delighted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u210	And now it's your turn to listen to you. This gentleman heard you. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u211	That you've been an observer decided it, not me. Here's what the Galician Nationalist Block calls for, if you'll excuse me, it's a rather strange request, for extemporaneous. We just set up the Box Commission last Monday. The logic is that the workplan incorporates the request for all that information that is considered appropriate for this. Secondly, what the Block asks for is to know the cost. It literally says: what they put to the vote is, first, the state government's demand to provide information necessary to know the real cost for the public era of the decision to sell early Novagalicia Banco. The cost is here, you mentioned it, it is in the report that has just been made public by the Court of Auditors, which says it is EUR 9,559,202; that is, EUR 9 billion that has just been said. So the result is public, it's in an official document of the public spending body in Spain. It's true that at this cost Italians are more original. In Monte dei Paschi the decree recapitalizing that financial entity, instead of calling it a bank restructuring fund, what they call it is a bailout decree. They're envious of the Italians, because they express with a word what was that State aid to save the deposits of the Greeks who had the money there. The second thing they ask, specifically the Bloc, is to make public the documents which allegedly substantiated this decision. I don't want to last long. I simply refer them to the BOE of 27.12, to 11.6.2013, where the resolution plans are published. FROB itself published several information notes, there was a process in which several applicants competed to stay with the box, and by the way, you predicted almost everyone that would be for some American Voitre funds – – it is seen as correct – and they knew perfectly who was competing. Godsel the one who made the offer that doubled the second best offer. It was the first time in Spain you were able to recover some money, really far from what you said was going to happen, that you would give it to a large Spanish bank or to some Voitre funds for 1 euro. All this procedure was so transparent that – I have the documents here, I will not abuse them – there is one such Mr Almunia here who is signing a report, which is published by the European Commission, which speaks precisely of the restructuring of Novacaxagalicia, and therefore of its sale, which says that all Community legislation has been complied with, that is, it has been done correctly. In the absence of all this, the Court of Auditors has just concluded, and I literally read the conclusion – – Madam Press, we must read the report, or important – that says: except in the cases of Novacaxagalicia, "the FROB did not approve" — and the other is Caixa Cataluña — "in the controlled period a procedure which would establish the basic rules applicable to each of the sales of credit institutions, except Novacaxagalicia". The Court of Auditors' report says that FROB has indeed not done well, with the exception of Novacaxagalicia. And you mention there a small incident, which are four lines that dedicate to it in the report to the sale of Novacaxagalicia, which says that "that agreement indicates the maximum amounts of guarantees." You said it was a scandal, and not a footnote 33: "However, it should be noted that, as is stated in the FROB allegations, the draft of the sale contract, which was examined by the Rectoral Commission, did detail the maximum amounts of the guarantees", and the report itself says that the maximum amounts of the guarantees are covered. So there's a little while ago that we can vote, when everything is public and when you know the figures you know. It's true that we can take advantage of this debate, one more on the boxes, to remember that one thing is data, and another is legitimate valuations, and another is infusions or insinuations. We are hearing these days that Mr. Feijóo has been an accomplice in the millionaire compensation. When you've just settled down, I don't know if anyone came in a newspaper that the National Court or the Supreme Court had called some executive officer of the board or some autonomous officer to declare even as a witness to the millionaire compensations. Well, justice knows who the competition is, knows who did the crime, knows why, and calls to tell who has the ability to control this: the Bank of Spain, for example, the former cash managers, etc., and you say it was a conspiracy by Mr. Feijóo. This is an infusion, for example. Mr. Losada said -- and I can't agree with him anymore -- that it's best not to make alternative reports. I believe that, simply, that we take the story through Mr. Abel Caballero's statements of the merger of the boxes, we already have in reality several alternative accounts: "It's a good day for Vigo, because the city imposes its criterion. Gay is not the problem, but the solution." Knight: "If the PP ruled, Gayoso would be retired and Pego, dismissed." We can make several alternative accounts only following Mr. Caballero's statements, but that's not the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u212	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u213	I think we all agree that that's not the point. There's a target figure: 5,000 jobs have been kept. There is an entity, Abanca, which is no longer intervened by any public authority, because they know that Brussels has already lifted all its restrictions on January 1st, which has given a third of the credit in Galicia, private and business. Thanks to its existence, in Galicia there is less oligopolie, because the presence of this bank is fundamental in our productive tissue, less oligopolie than in other autonomous communities; and there is a commitment of permanence. It is true that Galicia deserves an explanation. What doesn't deserve is a new controversy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u214	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u215	...based on infusions. It's you who have a new opportunity to join in making a reasonable explanation of what happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u216	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u217	Well, excuse me, Mr. Puy, but the truth is I, rather than extemporaneous, am cold, cold as cold was this debate and how you like to cool down. I'm cool because the fact is that the People's Party qualifies as a small incident what happens with banks in this country, the data that is putting the Court of Auditors on the table, because the truth, Mr. Puy, we, who, since the BNG, have the ability to read and write it right now, despite the fact that we also get invalid for that, to talk about feminism, to read reports, etc., but that doesn't take away that this issue still has to be a question to clarify, in which there are a lot more responsibilities for debugging, we're sure that many more criminals, and we're sure of that many more policies. Political responsibilities will take time, nothing happens, we will have to keep insisting. And we must continue to insist on external routes to the Galician Parliament, if it is not possible from here on, but you are calm, that we have years and years ahead to ensure that political responsibilities are maintained at some point. And that's what so much fear is in this Parliament and so much fear is there, knowing the truth about these processes — as well as they don't want to know the truth about matters like Alvia and today they have to go back to Europe to find another way which is not this German Parliament an explanation, a solution — in the interests of transparency, we will have to achieve it, nothing happens. We're optimistic, we're hardworking and insistent people, and we're going to keep that subject under review. That's why you're not afraid of anything, that there will be responsibilities at some point, and we'll get all the information about that process that Mr. Feijó described as "solvent fusion" and we're still wondering why. Look, I'm going to give you a data, just to give you an idea of the gravity of this big fall in bank scams and why this Parliament should be responsible and seek all possible information. A single digit, because the People's Party likes the figures as well. For example, while EUR 54,151 million had been withdrawn from the pension reserve fund since 2012, more than EUR 60,000 million was allocated to the bank during the crisis. What does that mean? This means that the cost of the ransom, as far as we know, rose to a similar amount to the maximum that was accumulated in the pension reserve fund, which was EUR 66,815 million in 2011. So it's a coat of hair that since institutions you don't really want to deepen your transparency and see all the information about it. Because now we have a surprise with the Court of Auditors, but we don't know what else is there. We don't know at least us, so maybe you know something else. But for a generation that we no longer have the slightest hope of getting a pension on tomorrow, this is a coat of hair, seeing the counties and comparing it with something so fundamental to our society. Finally, because I don't have time, I wanted to comment on a few more questions. There is another fundamental problem about what we need to gather all this information to keep debating and deepening on it, and it is at some point to be able to assess that I have subjected for our economy the liquidation of these boxes within a political design that we understand from the BNG that it is already pre-crisis, that it is a political and ideological strategy to make these boxes disappear and their function, to concentrate and refocus the financial power in the hands of banks and that certain political interests have thus served those banking interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the development by the Galician Union of the National Strategic Plan for the Treatment of Hepatitis C, including the training of professionals, information campaigns and the plan of preceptive writing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u219	This motion for a non-law has tabled two amendments: one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and one from the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u220	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. There are 55,000 people affected by hepatitis C. The responsibility of a large part of the infections also of the national health system itself; therefore, responsibility of public administrations. However, in the face of the possibility of new treatments that would or would eliminate the possibility of disease, there was a lack of functions until the mobilizations began, until there were protests, until there was noise in the media by the people concerned; that is, until there was political impact for those — who were the same — were ruling. It was not until the adoption of the approach plan by the ministry that the council took note and abandoned the leftover to put in place measures, late, ill and trace. And along the way, the suffering, the worsening of the health status of some of the people affected, and unfortunately also the deaths of some of those people. However, the imputation of two high offices of the Galician Council had a fearsome response already in the first case, in the first imputation, contained, an answer to our irresponsible understanding. Before the first indictment, the President said that the complaint would be filed; none of that happened. He then despised the suffering of the victims, transferring that by two or three patients there was not so much alarm; that they could not relate to the health cuts; justifying in some way the policies and actions of the accused. Last December, in the face of the new indictment of the two high officials — of Carolina Created and of Felix Rubial — for this alleged reckless murder, the president said it was good news for the defendants. That imputation for six alleged reckless murders was good news, that they had done their job well, that they had done what they had to do and that he would not cease them. That's not only a nervous response, but a frightening response, and it's directly involved in the justification of those people's actions; in the political shelter, in the protection of a president by two persons accused of alleged reckless murder. It's very serious, very serious! I despise the pain of families, total contempt of what good health management is, and therefore the support and support of the President of the Council of Galicia. Look, we don't know, from En Marea, what's going to happen to the judicial procedure, but, regardless of what happens to that judicial procedure, we do know from the very beginning that there are political responsibilities in this case; responsibilities that have been warned from the rostrum of this Parliament and that have been warned from the streets; and we don't understand how at this point we can continue to defend these actions. They went wrong, and I started moving that only with the struggle of the affected and affected platforms of hepatitis was when the action was initiated, otherwise, nothing of that would happen. So it's incomprehensible how at this time you, like the Government of the People's Party, continue without assuming the overall content of the recommendations; they are not recommendations, but they are obligations to implement the National Plan against Hepatitis C itself. We were talking about exactly 55,000 infected people, but the ministry itself says that 70% of the infected people don't know it is, so we could be talking about 35,000 infected and infected potentials who still don't know it and who are, in addition, potentially contagious of their own disease. That's according to the government's own official estimates. In view of this scenario, it is very difficult to understand why it does not comply with the Galician Union with the part of the plan related to the subject, with prevention, with the training of health professionals and professionals. Even now the treatment of hepatitis C is being given, it is true that it is under discussion if it extends to other ranks, those F0 — we will speak on another initiative — but it is incomprehensible as it must be again those affected and those who have to publicly denounce the non-compliance of other parts of the plan for action. Besides, they're not even measures of high cost or enormous planning difficulty for the Health Council itself, so they should already be of immediate application and it shouldn't be necessary for us to bring this issue here. The only campaign that was put in place to encourage people to go on the job, according to the risk groups, was this, which was the one that made the platforms affected and affected by hepatitis. The Council of Health, total leave and abandonment of something that is essential and that could prevent the disease from getting worse in people who are not yet diagnosed, and could start treatment or follow-up or what professionals consider, but not even done this part. Nor did the training of professionals. It's true that there have been innovations in treatments and obviously some professionals do not know them, they don't know their posology, because not all professionals are hepatologists, and in primary care the people affected tell us that on many occasions they and they tell them how this treatment goes. We professionals have the right to be trained in innovation, and in this case in something so important and given a campaign of such importance that it ended with a specific plan on the part of the ministry. The terrible result that we are discussing, with these accusations on the table, is not explained by that judgement of what should be the preventive action of the council, how we can do wrong again in something that could do right from the beginning. We still don't know, without any data, about the people in prison who are receiving treatment or not. It must also be remembered here that it was practically a mockery of the decision that was made to leave practically equal the conditions under which they receive treatment with that agreement with penitentiary institutions. We have really denounced here in Parliament that people did not receive this treatment, that they were forced to move, and finally the agreement they signed left the situation as it was at the beginning. We're still out of this training of professionals; we're still out of the programs. Recently, in the middle of December, we were talking here about HIV-AIDS, and we were proposing that, regardless of the fact that the population is not the same, obviously, because the risk population is different in one case and another, you could take advantage of the screening of the primary care interview as a proposal. You should do it any other way, but at least, even if you don't, you take advantage of it to ask, and if people are inside the risk groups, they do that trick. They didn't want it either, and they asked us to move it into another initiative that had nothing to do with it. Today they have the opportunity here to vote in favour, to do the remaining part of the plan to comply with, because it makes no sense that it doesn't meet what we have on the table. Prevention should be the main concern of any government in the field of health; professional training should be the obligation and concern of any government in the field of health; and above all, when we are talking about a disease that kills. Besides, as I've already said at the outset, most of the infected people went into the National Health System at its time, obviously. So we want that, in a matter of logic and reasoning, it doesn't have to be the platforms that with their resources try to palliate what the board doesn't do. They vote in favour of this initiative and assume responsibility for the prevention and management of public health! Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u222	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u223	Hope, the expectation that thousands of people were subjected to the emergence of new drugs for the healing of hepatitis C, was paired with a nefarious, negligent, criminal act, by both the Spanish Government of the People's Party and the German Government. It was an act designed to set up obstacles, problems and barriers so that sick people who needed it could access treatment. An action that has put the health and life of these people at risk; that has clearly exposed the real face of the People's Party and exposed the consequences of its health policy: the elimination of budgeting, the priority of money in the face of people's lives, money that will soon not cry at hand to banks or builders or multinationals. They minimized the facts and there was an attempt to justify the unjustifiable; there was no assumption of any responsibility and much less of regret or apology. The reality is, with their actions, they let people die for economic reasons and, as a result, they have to assume responsibilities. Now they have to stand in front of the mirror of the performances they have carried out, and the mirror is no other than a judge is investigating two high-ranking charges in relation to the death of patients. Two high-ranking positions that you, the People's Party, refuse to cease; and, far from caesals, they are awarded to keep themselves in the public administration in positions of the highest responsibility, as is the case of the manager of the EOXI de Vigo. This judicial action ratifies the complaints and the warning we have made here, for example, in this Parliament. We call for correction and on the part of the People's Party not to make this correction; and now there is an investigation which establishes that there is a direct cause-effect relationship; that decision-making on drug administration has directly affected the possibility of healing people, and therefore non-administration could be the cause of these people's death. The People's Party has mercantileized the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. They were alerted, warned, by land, sea and air, and the Government of the People's Party, the Members and Members of the People's Party, did not listen, made deaf ears, and acted and continue to act with prepotence and heaviness — I have to say so — only understandable to someone who feels unpunished in front of what may happen. We will support this initiative presented today in Marea. In April 2015 the Strategic Plan for the Approach to hepatitis C was launched; an ambitious plan on paper, but then, at the time of development, there is neither speed nor, of course, desirable intensity. There are aspects of the plan that are not even lit, and many others are about to develop. The strategic line of quantification of the magnitude of the problem — which was one of the issues demanded in a very insistent way — is practically unstarted. And prevention, or promoting early diagnosis in priority populations, is practically undeveloped. The detection plans, the shooting plans, without putting them in motion. The information to the population, which we believe is fundamental, is not being done. As was said here, the plan itself states that around 70% of infected people don't know, and it's tremendous that all these people may be developing a disease that can be treated in time. Asymptomatic people with what is needed and it would be good to act before the disease developed. Training in professionals... i.e., a whole series of performances contemplated in the plan but that are left there and never again known. I insist that we agree with the initiative presented, and we tabled an amendment for this Parliament to urge the German Government to carry out all the necessary actions to effectively comply with the agreement signed between Sergas and the General Directorate for Prison Institutions to apply treatment to prisoners. I have to say that the BNG has brought here the initiative for this to be possible on the basis of the Hepatitis C-affected Platform, voted favourably in this Parliament, and the truth is that it is a sort of joke that had been approved at its own time and that today, although it is estimated to be around 456 people imprisoned in prisons located in Galicia that may be affected...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u224	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u225	...there is no information that there are more than five or six that have been treated, and those who are treated, have to ask for the transfer to Madrid and be there for months, away from their surroundings, to be treated. Of course, it is evidence that this agreement signed between Sergas and Penitentiary Institutions was an attempt to wash face, at this point it seems a real evidence, so it would be good if we had to stop talking about the treatment of hepatitis C in this Parliament because the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u226	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u227	... once and for all, take it seriously. If they took it seriously, we would not have to bring this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u228	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u229	...initiatives asking them to do, among other things, what they agreed and voted in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u230	Thank you very much. You have the floor now, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u231	Thank you, Mr. President. This is undoubtedly a debate in which we will undoubtedly support the initiative. It is a particularly hard and sensitive debate, as surely all of us here are aware — I would like to address the advisor for some mention, but good, in any case, the debate is between the groups. It's a particularly sensitive debate and with some difficult emotional characteristic, it's indisputable. There are harsh situations, as there are in many situations of illness, but this one was particularly serious, with very desperate patients looking for treatments in Egypt, India... situations we all know. So I think it's important to take these delicacy into account when dealing with it. We want to focus on two issues, and then specifically on the amendment we propose. The first is to complete the medical process. We know what is signed and we know what is approved; but that, as it is said here, is not being complied with correctly. We therefore believe that it is necessary — without discussion, without further debate — to complete the treatment. It's nothing more than that. It's not much longer. And this implies that people who are in prison, people who are in prison, have the same right to treatment because they are not encapsulated, they are equally people. They have their rights -- some of them -- covered by a situation they're paying for, but that's not the debate; health levels are people just like others, and therefore we don't have to make that difference. I do think this is a matter of special sensitivity, basically because treatment is a right. We thought that health is a right, and within the health is treatment. If health we think it has to be with its characteristics: public, free and quality, we also defend that treatment has to be like this. If it's a right, we have to guarantee it to everyone. We are more in favour of guaranteeing rights and redistributing wealth. We don't like to think that there are those who want to secure wealth and redistribute rights — that's not the question —. We therefore strongly request that this part be fulfilled. Secondly — and I think this is more important — besides completing the treatment, we would like to have heard some explanations. Honestly, and very clearly, I can't understand why there were no clear explanations of the event. It's not possible to understand. I am no longer saying that the families of those affected — which are obviously not — can't understand, but why are there no explanations? Why can't it be possible that a councilman, that a board president, who talked a lot about the subject to presumpize some issues, didn't offer some public explanations of what happened? Explaining things doesn't mean assuming you've done it wrong, though from our position if you think it's done wrong. But anyone who gives explanations doesn't have to assume that explanations are given because things are wrong. It's simply the public work of a councilman or a president of the board to offer explanations, and in a case as delicate as this one, in a special way. You deserve an explanation, those affected deserve it, and there was no clear explanation. They've always been broken statements, forced responses... There wasn't a sharp show to explain. Isn't it a matter of sufficient relevance to that? If it was to assume 130 million euros invested, as the president of the board said here — of which we would certainly like to know where they are — we would like to know. But it is that even the complaint, the judicial process, of moral trap — which is a little delicate — has been qualified. That judicial process ended with what we all know, in the Provincial Hearing that investigates for murder — which is a delicate subject, no doubt —. So when you talked about moral deception, when you assumed an investment that you don't know where you are... an explanation. And from those explanations, we could have some other positions because we would have more data. When there is no data it is when there are problems and when there are interpretations that, of course, I'm sure the People's Party considers sescate. But if there's no information, it's easier for different interpretations to be performed. So we want the process to be completed and we want explanations to be given. And to the thread of that judicial process, we believe that there is a particularly sensitive situation. The follow-up of the plan provides that there are regular meetings of those affected with representatives of Sergas. Those affected, when they meet with representatives of Sergas, have before the interlocutor and the interlocutor. The interlocutor, in this case, is one of the people who are investigated for murder, and it is especially hard to do so. What we're thinking is that they change their positions, separate them from the situations that have to do with the treatment of hepatitis C. It's a matter of morality, almost humanity. Let's not make the sick, the affected, pass because they have to go to a meeting and meet with that person who's being investigated for murder, for a situation in which some of their relatives died.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u233	And I'm not getting into what the court ruling is going to say, which is what the court ruling will say, I'm going into the moral issue of not having to see the faces in that situation. So that's where our amendment goes, which proposes to separate from their functions — which have to do with the treatment of hepatitis C, with this process and with the evaluation of this plan — from these highly investigated positions. I know the president said they're only investigated for prevarication...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u234	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u235	...I don't know if that in any political party is a merit, in any case, I don't think it is—but now they're already investigated for something else. We therefore ask that this amendment be taken into account which we believe complements the initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u237	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. I'm going to say what is required in the initiative: "Let it be the Health Council who takes on the training of professionals, the information campaigns and the squabbling plan contemplated in that strategy." And here he talked about everything but this. There are two people, actually, who are under investigation, and although for the whole opposition it gives the feeling that they are already condemned, I am surprised that, having a voice to a judge, they say these things. I, of course, personally hope, wish and trust that the same thing happened to the U.S. Attorney's Office -- I don't mean any more. Today the Secretary General of Health, who explained in what degree or at what point of development is the April 2015 Strategic Plan, appeared in the Congress Health Commission. At the same time, it brings the En Marea Group a registered initiative two months ago that follows the guidelines of a certain affected platform, which is not the only one. Is it a coincidence, or will it have something to do with the representative in Galicia on that platform being a frustrated candidate — according to the media — to the national Parliament? Or was it number fifteen on En Marea's lists that we can do for the autonomous elections? [[Murmurs.]] You seem to be upset, Mr. Sánchez. [[Murmurs.]] That's why this spokesman goes to Madrid, to the Congress of Deputies, to criticize the Galician Union, to call our president a psychopath, to question the action of Judge Lago, or to end up saying they don't meet with the People's Party because they don't have relations with it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That person was in a television debate with this speaker and we talked about things, and he had to recognize that Spain was the best country, or the best countries, to be ill with hepatitis C because it was the sixth country in number of treatments, twenty-eighth country in number of cases. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] What are we talking about, gentlemen? It's said there's no transparency in the application of the plan. I suppose they will not refer to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which has all available information on the number of cases treated, population distribution per age, by sex, by previous medication, by previous clinical status, by co-infection with HIV, by xenotype, all medicines administered and all results obtained. I think more transparency is difficult. Before the plan, 1,137 people were treated in Galicia, and after the plan — from April 1, 2015, 3,578 patients. It forces the Strategic Plan to make a record of treatments, and it's in Galicia where, from the first minute, there has been the HC Surveillance Platform, where all the data are recorded. Ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary group is absolutely proud of the success of the implementation of the plan in Galicia and also of the professionals, who were able to achieve 95.88 per cent degrees of effectiveness, which rises to 97.18 per cent if the patients who have not finished treatment are not counted for any reason. It was performed with patients administering the precise treatments. These figures — better than the few known in the rest of the state — give evidence of the training and capacity of our professionals in the treatment of this disease. Those data from the Vigy were praised at a meeting of the Ministry of Health, where all the autonomous communities were, because of their rigor and completeness. I can tell you that 85% of the data I had in the ministry at that time came from the Autonomous Community of Galicia, 85% of the cases. So if you say there's no reliable data, it'll be in the rest of the state, in Galicia, the data is clear and reliable. It's claimed that the plan focused on the treatment dispensation, it would lack more! The beginning was to treat patients. I suppose we'll all agree that this was strict and urgently priority. Of course, we cannot support this initiative, because we believe that the development of the plan must be at the national level, absolutely coordinated, and not that every autonomy should do what seems right to it. If you look at the schedule in the strategic plan, the schedule says that these screening and information measures are planned for the second half of 2017, which I think we're on time. From then on, all the patients who needed it were treated in Galicia within the priority provided for in the plan in relation to the degree of fibrosis of the disease. The commitment of this parliamentary group and counseling with the patients is solidarity, and I think that it is beyond doubt. More than 65,200 people have been treated in Spain, according to figures provided by the Minister of Health at the Congress of Deputies. In Galicia, I told you last October, 4,700 people. More than €1.040 million has been invested in Spain in 2015, 600 in 2016 and 200 are planned for this year 2017. She was asked to the ministry, by the council, on repeated occasions, as quickly as possible in the development of the plan, but Galicia has applied the strategies in a more advanced way than most autonomous communities. We are working on the development of the plan, within the framework of the Ministry of Health, and this group cannot support it from any autonomous community at the expense of others. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u238	Thank you very much. You have the floor for the author group of the non-legislative proposal to Mrs. Solla, to whom I ask her to be positioned also on the amendments submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u239	Thank you, President. As far as amendments are concerned, we will accept them, because surely both the issue that I bring here today in Marea and the rest of the aspects have been transferred by those affected and affected by all groups of the opposition. Maybe if the People's Party doesn't or doesn't receive that information, it's because of the attitude it has from the beginning. Obviously, this group has already called for the resignation, as it cannot be otherwise, of the persons charged, because it is indeed shameful that these same people continue to have health responsibilities in our country. It is shameful that, after being charged and charged with alleged reckless murders, you continue to defend those acts. They tell you that they do it very well, they all do it very well, I'm sorry that there are consequences for the population of their recklessness and their inability to manage public health. That you have to watch out for the legitimate political activity of a person who participates in a citizen platform is really regrettable, I've told you on one occasion. When you have to resort to these kinds of infamies to justify what you don't do in the Health Council, or any other government advisor, it's precisely because they're unable to manage what citizens and citizens leave in their hands. [[Applause]] It's not true, Mr. Centeno, that if you're doing the lads and if you're doing the plan, and you say that, of course, they still have margin, it shows how you don't assume your responsibilities. They have to wait until the plan expires to meet them, they have to wait until there are imputations to do something, they have to wait until the affected people are mobilized in the street, with health effects, to get to work; it's unfortunate that they have to wait for others to do their work or tell them what to do. Of course, the plan is coordinated at the state level! Of course there was a meeting today, at which, by the way, you talked about expanding the treatments. But here we're talking to you about another part of the plan that's not being fulfilled, and you just announced that you're going to vote against it. They voted against, at the moment, to provide the treatments, and it seems that we will now have to wait for reality to force them to comply with their obligations. It's really regrettable, I'm telling you honestly, because it doesn't cost so much to assume that it's not being done. And, please, I would like — now it has no need to intervene — to answer me on one occasion, and I know that you are going to do so in the Health Committee — or not — if you hang up on a website some indications is to make a plan for the training and training of professionals. Frankly, Mr Centeno, I see that it is impossible to debate seriously anything in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u240	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. So we move on to the next non-law proposition. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the appeal before the Constitutional Court for refusal of admission to the proceedings by the Bureau of the Congress of Members of the proposed Organic Law on Transfer of Ownership and Jurisdiction from AP-9 to Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u241	No amendments were tabled. Mr Bará Torres has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u242	Well, let's bring here the theme of AP-9 again, and we'll bring it every time we need it until we achieve the goal of having an AP-9 Welsh and without fees. It has also been presented, a joint group initiative has been registered to process a new bill, and we hope that this second opportunity will be more successful than the first one. It depends, fundamentally, on the political will of the People's Party, even if it is a modified text in its drafting with regard to what has been adopted here unanimously, they have a new opportunity to approve it in Madrid. This proposal today is the result of the Congress Bureau agreement of 13 December 2016, which can be qualified as the day of shame, the day of shame because an agreement has been reached — we understand that it is infamous by the Congress of Deputies — on the proposal adopted by this Parliament unanimously, an agreement, in addition, signed, that day of shame, by the Congress President of Deputies and Members, Ana Pastor. Well, this agreement shows what are the real reasons for the rejection, of the veto by the People's Party, of this agreement. They're political reasons, as much as they try to camouflage as technical reasons. The reality is that there is a political veto of the People's Party in Madrid, and that this veto is taken with consent — we call it submission, we call it subordination, we call it vassalage or we call it treason, as they wish — of the People's Party of Galicia and the Government of Greece. They allege technical reasons, with absolutely false and misleading arguments like, for example, that this is an itinerary of general interest included in an itinerary of international traffic and European interest, which serves as access to the border with Portugal, which is not true in the case of AP-9, and to ports and airports of general interest, when it does not communicate directly these infrastructures, and they say that for these reasons it is not possible to transfer to Galicia. And, moreover, they also speak with absolutely lacking arguments of rigour, and that they are a real mess, of the economic impact that would have that concessional ransom, which would amount to 4,300 million euros from an income-based calculation that the concessionaire had in 2014, of 127 million euros multiplied by the remaining years of the concession. Of course, no grant ransom is made on the basis of these calculations. And, above all, we say that it was the day of shame, it is still aggravation that this decision of the Bureau of Parliament is taken at the same time as the Government of the State — given these reasons for the case of Galicia — announces the multimillionaire rescue for more than EUR 6 billion of the Madrid radio highways and other broken highways in the state. So we're on this decision in the face of a new aggravation that has to be added to a long list that we've been suffering for more than forty years with AP-9. We pay absolutely abusive fees, which are the most expensive in the state, we suffer from the multi-millionaire concessionaire that reaches the amount of EUR 743 million, which they collect every day in Galicia, the money we all pay and all the users of the highway, EUR 300,000. And we see how, despite these multi-millionaire benefits, if you reduce staff, there is a worse quality of service, there is an absolute lack of infrastructure maintenance; and, above all, we also see, however, how the concession extended to the year 2048, reaching the legal maximum permitted for seventy-five years. In the middle are all speculative maneuvers for a sale of the concession, which is going to be a new big deal, a new platoon that they're putting together big investment funds, international votre funds, and that's one of the reasons for that veto of the Government of the State for the transfer and also for the rescue of the concession, because there's a great operation there to do again with an infrastructure that is vital to our country. In addition, this agreement points out, once again — if it was not enough already with all the times we suffered — that double speech by the political forces of state obedience, in this case of the People's Party, which say something here and contrary to it in Madrid. They do the opposite in Madrid, in the case of AP-9 the vote, besides it was the same day, so we say it was the day of shame; the same day that you voted here for the handling of this proposal, in Madrid they put the veto on the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies. So the truth is they're letting you all in very bad place as representatives of the People's Party in Galicia. In addition, we understand that this agreement by the Bureau of Parliament is an act of contempt, it is a joke and a lack of respect for this Parliament which has unanimously approved that law. This is the first time, when the Bureau of Congress vetoes the processing of a law passed by a parliament and therefore prevents the option to debate and then adopt or not, because it would then be seen by the procedure it had of the Courts this law; it could be passed as it was drafted or it could be approved with changes with respect to the initial drafting, but the reality is that it has been vetoed, that the debate has been prevented, and this is an absolutely unheard of fact, is a fact that we consider undemocratic. We also believe that there is a clear violation of the rights of Members and Members of this Parliament, the fundamental right of political representation and participation, and that is why we think it is an arbitrary decision, is an unfair decision. And, therefore, because of this institution's decency and consistency with the agreements adopted, this proposal is why we make this agreement, which has three points: A first point, which says that it rejects the decision of the Bureau of Congress which failed to deal with the proposal for a bill for the transfer of title and powers from AP-9 to Galicia, adopted unanimously by the Greek Parliament. The second point, which I said to promote the appeal before the Constitutional Court by supporting — logically, the appeal cannot be brought by Parliament, but by Members and Members — that Members and Members are calling for protection for violation of fundamental right to the participation of civil servants in equal terms and by providing Parliament with parliamentary and legal technical assistance in order to enforce this appeal. And, in addition, transfer this agreement — a third point — to the President of Congress. We call for the support of all groups to have a unanimous response, a country's response in coherence and in defence of the collective interests and agreements of this Parliament. Of course, the BNG Group is not going to pass the page on this subject, bring it here as often as it needs, we're going to sue this issue, because it seems to us a vital and strategic issue for our country. We're going to give the institutional, social and legal battle, we're going to mobilize all the energies that are needed to stop this agreement, which is absolutely unfair and unworthy, and we're going to mobilize all the energies against this AP-9 policy, against this legal scam, against this robbery, against this robbery, against this outrage, against this outrage, which is an offense — I think I'm short with the nouns, I would have to say many more — to the dignity of Galicia, of this Parliament, and also to all of you who are sitting on the bench of the People's Group. So we're going to go forward with consensus or without it, we're not going to stop until we get an AP-9 Welsh and without fees, we're not going to stop until we get this shame over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u243	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u244	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. There's a first part of the initiative we agreed on in the resolution. We believe that the Government of Spain is using — in an extremely extensive way — the power given by the Spanish Constitution, in the context of the budget debate, to give compliance or not to any proposal or amendment in accordance with Article 134 of the Spanish Constitution. The People's Party is doing all the legislative initiatives that arrive at the Congress of Deputies. This doesn't seem acceptable to us. He did so with the proposal for a derogation from LOMCE, for example, he did it with a pension promotion proposal and he would do it with any other legislative initiative. If we had sent the Congress of Deputies an initiative with force of law to declare the Galician Colon, it would also subject it to that criterion and would not give the People's Party conformity. And this attitude derives only from their status as a minority government, trying to protect, to have the monopoly of the legislative initiative and to steal it from the groups that make up the Congress of Deputies or the autonomous chambers, which also have it in accordance with the Constitution. It devalues the role of Parliament, devalues the role of autonomous parliaments, erodes the division of powers and reinforces — in an excessive way — the role of executives, leading to paroxysm what we can call rationalised parliamentaryism, which is undoubtedly part of the current debates. We do not agree with this, and in that sense we are going to vote in favour of the first part of the BNG initiative, if we accept our request for a point vote. But the truth is that the Bureau of Congress is not dealing, let's say, with the Government's non-compliance with many legislative initiatives, not only those that come from autonomous parliaments, but, as I said before, those that also come from parliamentary groups. We may not like it, it may seem to us that this is not according to what should be a normal parliamentary system, but, in any case, it is part of our legal system and also part of the jurisprudence. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2006 that does not give support to Members of the People's Group in the Basque Parliament against a decision by the Bureau of the House which was justly vetoed for its processing by the Basque Government, for considering that it was instigating changes in the budget document that had previously been approved by the House. Finally, we can have different opinions, but, if it is a legal matter, this is also necessarily part of the debate. The political issue is something else, and that manifests itself — I think it is — in the case of the BNG initiative in the first part of its resolution. And for these decisions it would be a means of protection, but the remedy of protection is a right that Members and Members have in their own right. Whether we approve here or not the second part of the resolution would not affect that right at all. I respect that right, respect that right, could not be otherwise, at last, and Members who want to exercise it have my full understanding. But I'm not sure this is going to be a good door in legal terms, I don't have that security. And I believe that if what we want — as it seems to be in agreement with the author of the proposal — is, in the end, to obtain the transfer of AP-9, we have already put in place an alternative, much more powerful mechanism, as is the signature by the four political groups of this House of an organic law proposal that we will refer back to the Congress of Deputies. I think this is the right way to solve this situation and to get the AP-9 transfer to Galicia, so you can exercise competence over it. This new bill partially modifies the previous one and, rightly, that amendment, which was accepted by everyone, somehow questions the possibility that these legal remedies would prosper, because somehow we are agreeing that the previous proposal had some point that would give the Government of Spain no effect to the processing, because it could be understood that it would compromise budgetary resources. I think it wasn't, I think it wasn't, but I think there are reasons for the Government of Spain to be able to do that interpretation. So political support, but we believe that the way to achieve the transfer of AP-9 is another one, that is what we put in place among all the groups of the House, and in that sense I would ask for a point-by-point vote to make clear our position on this matter. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. Mr Sánchez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u246	Good afternoon. In the debate of the motion not of previous law we have seen a feature that seems very dangerous to me in democracy and that unfortunately the People's Party is using too much, which is, instead of rebating arguments, disqualifying people, sowing suspicion about people who fight about what they think is fair and, in this case, disqualifying people who are fighting, defending the victims, the sick people of hepatitis C. But it's more, it's a very common tactic... we regret... No, not us. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, not us. No, no, if you want, I'll explain, but we don't. Not us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, the friends of the PP, the friends of the PP, we're going to talk now on the initiative. He just said here, to question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u247	Let the person who is in the use of the word speak.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u248	...a person simply because of his political sympathies. And that's very common in the towns and Galicia, all over Galicia, we know -- all over the last few years -- that's a very extended strategy in the People's Party; anyone who freely expresses their views, is discredited when it doesn't suit the People's Party. But it's more, that's not even that, that you're questioning what a prosecutor and a judge says, they're talking about prosecution and court. But it's not strange, too, you've got the hunts off against the judges too, against the judges who were disturbing them. Because they have an omnivorous conception of power. You Democrats still have a lot to learn. They have a culture that doesn't take root in democratic culture. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no! That's right, I have to say. To me these issues are very outrageous. What I've seen right now looks like it's a lot of slowdown. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course it's my opinion, I'm expressing it. I'll think about it, won't I? I'd just miss it! Exactly! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, with regard to the BNG proposal, we would like to support it, because we are to respect the unanimous agreement of this Parliament, which has also been voted upon by the People's Party, the dignity of Parliament and, therefore, the dignity of Galicia, of the Greeks and of the Greeks. Here a proposal for a law was adopted unanimously, I repeat, which called for the transfer of AP-9 to the Council of Galicia and the Spanish Government vetoed it, simply vetoed the debate in the Congress of Members with false arguments, with manipulations, with lies, and we think this despite the fact that — in what we believe, it is a hope that something can be achieved for this country — we agree to modify the text of the bill to remove what was used as an argument to veto the debate, but — as has already been said here — not because we believe that the arguments put forward to veto the debate were true, they were false. So much the argument that it's a road that goes to the border with Portugal, because we've already said that it doesn't go to the border with Portugal, but we also said that in Catalonia and Euskadi it's passed highways that go to the border with France and there's no problem, like the cost argument, that we've often repeated the gross multiplication of the fees collected in the last year for the years to be granted. That's in the report that was used to ban the debate of a bill. Shame on you! When we know that's totally false. The falsity of these arguments, we believe it is fair to continue fighting because they are recognized as false arguments, and this initiative I think is going in that direction, so we support it. And also, with regard to that bill that we, not doubtably, support, because we do not think that we should avoid the possibility that any other kind of sarcasm is again used to ban this debate, because this is political will. We also ask you not to take it for granted again to the Greeks and to the Greeks, and we ask you, especially, to those who have the greatest responsibility: the People's Party. See what you're gonna do with your comrades in Madrid, I suppose they're from the same party, right? Because you defend market unity, defend finance, too, homogenous and without differences. We hope they can do something and if, at least again, from the Government of the State if they get their hair off to the Greeks and to the Greeks — this time with another kind of false, lying and manipulative sarcasm — we hope they have something more forceful to express the disagreement, much more powerful than Mr Feijóo's, who hid his head when the minister came and wanted to sell some achievements that we've already seen, they were achieved and repeated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u249	Don't argue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u250	Let's hope they don't take the hair again to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Mr Fernández Prado has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u252	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Fernández Leicega, we share the comments of your second point, but with regard to the use being made by the People's Party in that veto Congress, I think you know perfectly well that if you're doing right or wrong you're already discriminated against right now in the Constitutional, you're already under study, and I think you'll be there where you can confirm. But, as they were saying, technical, technical and legal criteria were used, not political. Mr. Sánchez, it's hard to get up here and disqualify more, invent more in five minutes, and lessons of democracy, justice, justice! Because all Mr. Centeno did is tell the truth, if you don't like it... but was it on the lists or wasn't it? I mean... If they don't like the truth, don't disqualify, because infamous we have to listen to ourselves, and insults we have to tell us, and not by cutting me, you're going to have more reason, because you don't have it. [[Applause]] In any case, Mr Bará, allow me — when he says so loudly and talks about outrage — I really believe that the only outrage here was when the BNG was opposed to the construction of the highway. Do you remember the knife? Do you remember? That is an outrage to Galicia and all the Greeks. They're not going to defend more than we are the transfer of the highway to Galicia, it's not their heritage, as no other thing reminded them this morning. We will continue to defend this transfer, and this transfer to Galicia because the outrage is when you vote against the transfer, as you did when you were in the Government of Galicia. That's a rascal. We'll keep the same criteria. But — as you may already understand — we will vote against this non-law proposal, because it goes against the last steps taken unanimously in this House, and because they also do not help the ultimate objective, as the fellow PSOE said, that goal which is to achieve — as soon as possible — this transfer. And, as you know, in addition, I would like to congratulate the four voices of the four groups on reaching that agreement, which was registered together last week, on the request for processing, on the transfer of a new law that transfers the title of AP-9, and where the aspects that were used to justify legally the Bureau of Congress's government this decision are removed. And, as you know, it was done with invaluable advice, help and collaboration from this House's legal advice, and it was decided among all, including legal advice, that this was the best option, as the PSOE spokesperson said, to get that transfer. So let us be consistent and vote the same as we vote and sign the 75 Members in that non-law proposal. I don't think this way is consistent with that decision. And in addition, we think that this second point, the only thing that can generate, is to delay, and even paralyze, the process before the processing claiming that, surely, I'm going to wait for the Constitutional to fail. We think it wouldn't help this process, and since we have a unanimous decision in another sense, we respect it and we don't mess up, because we mess up, gentlemen of the BNG, all we do is weaken our position, Galicia's position on this subject. If it's true that not with the same intensity, we also believe that the first and third point doesn't help achieve that goal of an agile transfer, and why do we say so? In the first sentence of the same thing as Mr. Leicega said, we also think that a new law is being dealt with, in some way we recognize that some of the subjects are technically-legally questionable. On the other hand, we have to present it to the same table that we want to refuse, and I don't think that deepening the differences is the best way to reach an agreement and get that process. And finally, I would allow myself to make a comment. On the contrary, they say that this Parliament is not being respected, let us imagine that it is the opposite and that the Bureau of our Parliament decides not to process a request from another parliament of the same congress. If we had a rejection, then we would defend our Bureau and, in addition, we would be defending the independence and criterion of the Juridical Services of this House and the decisions of our Bureau. Let's be consistent, and let's be honest, that's what it would be like. We will continue to request the transfer of AP-9...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u253	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u254	...it's not his patriotism, and I told him before. It's important to keep that unanimous stance on processing, we have an agreement last week and we respect it. This morning the president said that sometimes nationalism does not help or are not good for the country, and if they want to lead to certain aspects, I think that — as in this case — instead of helping these nationalist tendencies, what they do is to go against the interests of the country and the transfer of AP-9. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. Thank you very much. Mr Bará Torres has the floor by the group that is the author of the non-legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u256	Well, first of all, I wanted to say that if we were to accept the point vote, as Mr Leicega asked. And to Mr Prado, what I have to say is that this initiative is in defense of a European Parliament agreement; it is an initiative in defence of a unanimous agreement by this Parliament, in coherence with that unanimous agreement, and we are not going to ask forgiveness for being consistent, for being consistent and for defending an agreement by this Parliament. In fact, it's an outrage, it's a policeman, it's a robbery. Look, we said it was a shuttle to the highway at the time of its construction. In fact, the layout of today's environmental legislation would not be where to take it, it could not be approved, it's a real barbarity. But the truth is that we were wrong about that knife, because it wasn't a knife, it was a real robbery, it was a robbery in the pockets of all the Greeks and Greeks, it was much more than a knife, it was a robbery, a robbery, a cop, a rascal, a shame... a shame, in addition to everything that's happening now with this subject. The proposal, as I said, is to give an answer, and a firm answer, a powerful answer, and we would like this Parliament to be united, in the face of an arbitrary decision, which is unfair and undemocratic, because if you are using a legal precept, Article 134.6 of the Constitution, in an abusive way, in a twisted way not to veto a law, but to veto something far more serious, to veto the parliamentary debate of a law passed by this Parliament. So we can't afford that. I therefore believe that we have the right to make this agreement, I believe it is an obligation of this Parliament to make this agreement and, in addition, to make that remedy for violation of fundamental rights. And we call on Parliament to support this right that Members and Members have to ask for this support, and also for Parliament to support this action by its technical and legal means. So it's not just a legal issue, it's a question of dignity, it's a question of decency, which has nothing to do with the fact that it is through a second attempt to propose a law and that, in any case, if it is approved with that change in writing, it does not exempt those who have to negotiate with the Government of the State the fact that it negotiates in that joint commission not only the transfer, but also the rescue of the concession, which, in any case, is a right we have as Greeks and Greeks. Finally, I believe that the issue is clear, the arguments that have been made are not technical arguments, they are political arguments. With these arguments the transfer would also be vetoed again, so this Parliament must be consistent, consistent, and by decency and dignity we call for support for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u257	Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the impetus for the Galician Union to comply with the judgment of 21 December 2016 of the European Union Court of Justice in relation to mortgage contracts with ground clauses
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u258	This motion for a non-law has been tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u259	Mr. Antón Sánchez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u260	The Court of Justice of the European Union, in its judgment of 21 December 2016, has just failed in favour of consumers in the case of compensation for unfair clauses, abusive clauses. Credit institutions will have to return everything customers have over-burdened during the life of the mortgage loan and not only from May 9, 2013, as the Supreme Court had established. According to the Court of Justice of the European Union, Spanish jurisprudence, which limits in time the effects of the declaration of nullity of the ground clauses contained in mortgage lending contracts, is incompatible with Union law. This limitation leads to incomplete and insufficient consumer protection, so it does not constitute an adequate and effective means to stop the use of abusive clauses. In this judgment it is stated that an abusive legal declaration of a clause must result in the restoration of the situation in which the consumer would find himself if there was no such clause. The consequence, therefore, is that they are returned incorrectly charged by the existence of interest-free ground clauses, with interest included. This judgment and the consequences on ground clauses is one more example of the continuous treatment of Spanish governments with the bank for years, in different colors, it has to be said, which has also led to a situation of abuse of consumers, many years, all the time. Once again, as I said before, another scam on the big scale, too, allowed in convenance with those governments. And once again, in this case, the European authorities who have to come out in defence of consumer rights paradoxically, and put in color, red to those who instead hold other positions, such as the Supreme Court judgment, that even one of the arguments for the irretroactivity of ground clauses was that there could be a serious change in economic order. I mean, the priority is to protect the banks once more. For years the Spanish State has been setting up a system that constantly assumed not only abuse of people, but constantly violate Community consumer protection legislation. This was supposed to be billions of euros stolen. The European Court of Justice has already declared that mortgage legislation, on matters as sensitive as the donation paid, protection against the refugees, was contrary to European legislation. And always the tug and the ghastly, Spanish governments were changing the rules that imposed them from Europe, not on their own initiative, which were always on the bank's side. Now the ground clauses, but also the costs of formalizing mortgages, but now there are up to fifteen clauses in question that can be abusive, maybe! And the whole system of the last twenty, twenty-five years in question, is scandalous, and once again there were political leaders, the successive governments that have constantly legislated in favour of the bank and that have tolerated this situation. As I said, the judgment states that the legal declaration of an abusive nature of a clause must result in the restoration of the situation in which the consumer would be found if there was no such clause. That is to say, it is meridianly clear that the sentence requires the return of all amounts charged whenever there are abusive clauses, abusive floor clauses, all of them! In view of this situation, we say, how do we guarantee better that right of consumers who suffered these ground clauses? For we bet because extrajudicial proceedings are open with all guarantees to be returned to them — which are the rights of these consumers — without necessarily having to resort to the judicial procedure, causing more expense, more effort and more time, since they have clearly recognized that right. And that's why, initially, in our proposal we do not demand that the Board implement an extrajudicial system of these characteristics, with guarantees, and not obliged to resort to justice. Well, I also have to say that we amend ourselves, because in the middle of this time — between we register it and the debate came — the Royal Decree Act 1/2017 was passed. They have to excuse the different groups and the people who were going to come to the debate, but we believe that that self-amendment is justified, because the adoption of a basic legislation, of course, must also be met here; the Board could not initiate a procedure autonomously. Once this legislation is considered basic, what it does is to modify the proposal according to which I initially did it, but with the same idea, with the idea of providing a procedure that facilitates the payment of those amounts with all guarantees. But once again, by analysing the Royal Decree Act 1/2017, we see that within the framework defined by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and within the possibilities that there is, all possibilities, this agreement uses them to benefit the bank, once again. And all the possibilities and scraps that the bank was going to benefit were used to benefit the bank, and once again the balance leans on the side of the banks. I mean, as we see in this real decree the bank informs the customer — to all customers who have ground clauses — that the customer can voluntarily file a claim, which is called a prior complaint, and from there everything is already in the hands of the bank, which becomes a judge and part. The bank can simply answer that it does not consider that the customer's clause is abusive, and it ends, puts an end to the procedure. Otherwise, the bank itself is the one that calculates the amount to be returned, sends that proposal to the client, without any mediation, without any agency expected to check whether the offer the bank is making is correct or not. The consumer must show whether he agrees with the calculation. The deadline for the agreement is three months, and the bank can do the following: it can expressly reject the consumer's request, end of proceedings; three months without communication, no customer's answer, no end of proceedings, no negative administrative silence, no need to answer; or, if not, it can even answer the bank, and if in the three months it does not enter the amount to the customer, the procedure is completed and it has no consequences for the bank itself. I mean, you give the banks three months of leave without any consequences, do whatever they do. The consumer cannot take legal action during extrajudicial proceedings, and only if the consumer rejects the bank's offer and pleads for legal action, in which he obtained a more favourable judgment than the offer received, will costs the bank. I mean, this is scandalous, too. If the bank makes an offer to the customer, the customer thinks it's not fair and then resorts to justice, if he does not receive a judgment with an amount higher than the amount offered by the bank, the costs are for the customer. If during the process the bank produces a loop, because the same thing happens, if then the amount is not more than that amount offered by the bank, the costs are also for the customer. I mean, we think it favors the bank in all these respects. Nor does he make any reference to the executed mortgages, who were thrown out of their homes, who suffered the abusive clauses, those who lost their homes for a mortgage loan that had these abusive clauses. There is no sanctioning mechanism against the bank. We must compare the zeal with the failure of consumers to comply with the tolerance of bank defaults in this country. There is no budget provided for in the real law decree, it offers no guarantees, because there is no body between the bank and the consumer, and the relationship between the bank and the customer of the bank for us is not a relationship between equal, it needs a public body, as possible — which could be the Galician Consumer Institute — to mediate and advise also, to advise, the customer in the calculation — which is not a simple calculation — of the quantities. We believe, moreover, that it is not a relationship between equal, but much less with the precedents that the bank has in this country, that is, who guarantees that there will never again be abusive clauses or abusive mechanisms about the client, who ensures that that agreement does not become a fraud to the client and that we put ourselves in another loop of scams? There's no one to guarantee it. The customer can say, well, you've accepted, but there may again be an abusive agreement for the consumer, and there's no one to guarantee that and no one to supervise. What if the bank is in breach of legislation again? We believe that all this justifies a request for the amendment of the royal decree, so we urge the Council of Galicia to demand from the Government of the State the modification, with retroactive effects, of the Royal Decree of Law 1/2017, in order to guarantee the rights of consumers, the mandatory return of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u261	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u262	...financial entities — I am finishing — and without any prior requirement of all amounts collected in excess of the application of the above-mentioned clauses, interest arising from the date of the contract's effect, and developing with full certainty the arbitration instruments which guarantee the effective exercise of the above mentioned, including, in their case, the exemption from the judicial costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. On the side of the non-amendant groups. The Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales has the floor of Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u264	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. From the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we want to express our full support for this initiative of En Marea with which we share the background and the realization, and which goes in line with the issues that are publicly, and also in this Parliament, we have already registered on this. I'm going to be very brief, because the question is quite clear. Here we saw how the crisis unleashed the abuses of the bank in the Spanish state, abuses not only with regard to economic management — something we have already talked about in other places — but with an abuse against the people who are in a situation, in addition to defence, of vulnerability to the difference — as Antonio said right now — between knowledge and power, and the facilities that the bank has and the knowledge that these users have. What's going on? That the gravity of the facts, unfortunately, has not been answered quickly and precisely by the institutions and administrations in general, especially with urgency, with going at the heart of the problems, with going at the heart of the solutions. We've seen it in the preferences, and everything seems to indicate that we're going to see it now with the ground clauses, enhanced by a phenomenon of trying to cover up that there's no problem, that this is already finished immediately, then try to calm down the social alarm, and so, if we don't have a social alarm, if we don't have a permanent answer, because it will happen like the question of the preferences, where initially the rights of the people affected were completely violated, they weren't taken seriously by the majority of politics and they were intended to die. As I said before, thanks to that fight copy, it was not possible to do so. So, in the long run, from the BNG we share the concern that this initiative raises, we understand that this is in a very worrisome context, because, on one side, we have a state that renders absolute complaint to the dictates of the bank, we don't know whether we rule in Madrid the People's Party — a great coalition — or whether, indeed, we rule directly to the bank or who, and while we have a Union that sleeps and does not exercise its powers of consumption, as we would like. More than a month ago in this judgment and we saw a repeated spectacle, first a code of good practice — which first there was disagreement between the big parties of the state — then the bank's dark hands behind it, and then finally that code never got to good port. Then we entered the telenovela of the royal decree, and all the indications that were going to appear were quite negative, as to transparency towards the consumer, as to the lack of action of the profession and so on. Finally, the result we had a few days ago, and it's not satisfactory, it's absolutely bad, and it's an absolute wash in front of the state PSOE bank, as well as the People's Party, as well as citizens there in Madrid, and in front of what we expect the Board to give us a surprise and reacts otherwise, right? In addition, it is noteworthy that throughout all this time, during this month and peak, as before, since the only concern on the part of the Government was the collapses, whether in banking offices or in court. So we're just worrying about the collapse instead of seeing that there's a need there and that we'll have to articulate mechanisms so that there's no such collapses and that people's attention is guaranteed. Some people who encrypt in our country in, like, 200,000, according to information. In view of this, we have a new piece of oxygen at the bank, which is the priority. Time is short, and Anton has already come quite into what the decree is, and simply highlight a background fact which is absolutely shot if we see it under any perspective. In language teaching and learning, a lot is done by an exercise that is to change the characters' names in a story, and if we take this story and instead of the bank we put a thief, and we intend to tell the person that was stolen that who will decide the dictate of their problem is the person who stole it, it would be totally absurd. So, to us, this decree is not worth, we will continue to demand its transformation into real solutions as well. In that sense, the Council demands that it take the initiative, that it be necessary within the framework of the State, that it demand measures to control the bank for solutions now for all these people affected, and also for the future, because in the end, what will happen to the ground clauses? Well, as with the favorites, as with any other question of these banking crates we're looking at, that in the end there's no deep reflection of what's behind it, that big pulsle of the banking scam, that we still don't want to dissipate, because there's political and personal interests behind it, and, of course, from the BNG we want to claim that this is not done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u265	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u266	...that everything is revealed and that solutions are sought for this permanent scam in which we are living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u268	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As already mentioned here, the Supreme Court of Spain, on May 9, 2013, issued a ruling in which ground clauses were collected as abusive and therefore null. But in the same judgment the retroactive character was not recognised, so it did not affect all those situations prior to the publication of that judgment. On 21 December 2016, a judgment by the Court of Justice of the European Union challenged this decision by the Spanish Supreme Court and established that a clause is null and void and therefore, for all purposes, with full retroactivity. On the basis of that judgment, we see that — after calculating the Bank of Spain — the Spanish bank will have to disburse some EUR 4 billion, and over EUR 200 million only in Galicia. The Greek consumer and user association estimates that in Galicia there are potentially some beneficiaries, between 50,000 and 70,000, so the figure is important. In view of this judgment, the PP has not established any return proceedings, preferring, as always, to look elsewhere. It has come back to an alarming situation — which affected a very large number of citizens — a way of dealing with problems such as those already experienced on other occasions, for example in the case of the preferences. It had to be the Socialist Party at the Congress of Deputies who had forced the debate and to take a series of measures that took place in Royal Decree Act 1/2017, published — as stated earlier — on January 21 at the BOE, that is, this Saturday, in which the bank is obliged to establish procedures for the extrajudicial claim, which returns the whole without any loss, which calculates the interest of delay incurred and which is the whole process with complete transparency. The truth is that we, after presenting the En Marea GNP, came here today to vote in favour of that GNP, since you presented a GNP in which, in your resolution, they proposed, and I say textually: "Enable and activate the necessary mechanisms and instruments of arbitration and extrajudicial solution for the return, by credit institutions, of the amounts charged to customers of mortgage contracts with ground clauses." Proposals which we socialists believe are collected, practically in their entirety, in Royal Decree Act 1/2017, and therefore we do not present any amendment to that initial GNP that you have submitted to us, since in the royal decree it is established that entities must implement a claim system, which will have a voluntary character for the consumer, to meet those affected by the accounts of the ground clause. This is set out in Article 3(1). And also, in Article 3, it states that entities must ensure that this claim system is known to all those affected, i.e. that it is addressed to all those affected to explain how they can claim their money; that those affected will charge all their money free of charge for consumers and with the maximum conditions for transparency and accountability; that the maximum time limit — as you said before — will be, at the latest, three months, and that they can pay cash to the consumer if he agrees; and that it is the consumer who decides to accept or reject the offer, and in the case of rejection of the offer, of course, the judicial route remains. In the case, too, that the bank has made a lower offer to the consumer through the legal route, you will impose the penalty on the bank itself. That's why we are surprised that you are presenting today an amendment to your own LNP in which you request the amendment of the royal decree. We're going to abstain, otherwise we're going to approve it, of course, but we're going to abstain because we understand that practically all the proposals that you make are collected. Besides, we didn't have a chance to introduce an amendment, since it was amended with a lot of precipitation. In the case that you propose, and it is the only thing we see that there can be some difference — and that they talk about compulsory return and on their own initiative — we understand that in this way the consumer himself is not allowed to decide how the said return suits him most, since it cannot be forgotten that this return carries tax obligations, which may entail a significant change in the IRPF deductions. We'll follow closely this procedure, we know it's not excellent, but if it's the best, the fastest and the most agile to avoid complicated situations and to fix most of them within three months, at most, of the three months that come set in the royal decree. We will continue to demand that a follow-up body be propelled...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u269	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u270	...—Yes, I end—control and evaluation with the aim of ensuring consumer protection and promoting the proper implementation and knowledge of the extrajudicial mechanism and the necessary regulatory development. And we will also continue to work for consumer associations to be present in this monitoring body. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u271	Thank you very much. You have the floor for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group Mr. Castineira Broz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr. Sánchez, there was a time when I would tell him I almost thought he was in a Rafael concert, because he repeated so many times "Scandal, scandal, this is a scandal," which I really... and I thought he was already out of line with that singer, but you reminded me for several moments. And, Mrs. Presas, Mrs. Rodríguez, I really am very glad that the PSOE had finally done something, at last! It seems that this royal decree has signed such a Pedro Sánchez — I believe —. From what you said here it seems to have been the PSOE's initiative, but, as I know, it is signed by Mariano Rajoy, president of the Government and the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] But, according to you... look, I, having seen the visa, am very, logically, pleased that I had been agreed, dialogueed and agreed with the Socialist Party, with Citizens, with the PNV, with the Canaria Coalition... with another series of parties, not only the Socialist Party, Mrs Rodríguez, to which should be invited the ones of En Marea-Podemos, should be there; I honestly believe that they should be there. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But to me — as you said here that the PP had never taken any action in mishap or in this, really—I would like to ask you: then who did it come from?, who did it not?, from the abstention?, or from Carmen Chacón who drew the express mishap and the super express? Who's the Socialist Party coming from? Because, of course, that's what we've got... I don't know if you wake up in 2011 about what they did. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, but the story is there, what each one did, every government and every party. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr Sánchez, look, you actually — and you said it here — presented an initiative, a proposal where you initially asked for an extrajudicial solution for the refund of the amounts unduly charged to the clients of mortgage contracts. Extrajudicial solution that is endorsed and referred to by the royal decree that was passed on the 20th, i.e. last week; therefore, you, even if late, must reflect and present another initiative. Another initiative that comes to say that if the other one was taken 100% what they asked for, it turns out that this one I would say to 75%. Look, you're now asking that the return be compulsory, that it be done on your own... No, and I'll explain why. Because we understand that the freedom of the consumer must be voluntary to choose the system that he prefers; therefore, we are not going to remain an apex of freedom of decision to consumers. If you include interest in delay, you yourself have recognized that interest paid is included. And also, in his case, the exemption from judicial costs; for it is also collected in that royal decree. I think what really bothered you guys was that they had the placards painted and prepared, and with the real decree they were upset. So both the BNG and you have kept the banners, they're going to have to recycle them. And in that sense it was how I should present the initiative, withdraw it, and if they didn't withdraw it, modify it and ask for a recycling of the banners, because I think that's what they should do. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] For, look, in the real decree — and I say it at the first point, in the first article — the objective and the object are an extrajudicial procedure to defend consumers in a simple, fast and free manner — free, simple and quick — and, of course, voluntary; not on their own initiative, voluntary. And, look, the bank has to establish within one month a complaint mechanism for the consumer, and inform all those consumers who have ground clauses, notify them of how they will be processed. From then on, voluntarily, if the consumer decides so, he makes the complaint. As soon as you make the claim, you have the bank three months to do the calculation: "you should..."; that's called imperative, it can't be done and if you don't... No, no, the royal decree clearly states "should make an assessment and the calculation of the cash you have to return." And if it doesn't come out, if the bank doesn't understand it, it has to reason and motivate why, which is very important, it's not at the bank's free will, nothing at all, it has to clearly position itself and say the reasons why it doesn't value and it doesn't proceed with valuation, or valuation — which is very different —. From there the consumer has the option to say whether he likes the valuation they offer him or not, we're in a free country; so decide whether he goes to the judges, whether he doesn't like what they value him, he goes to the judges or not. And from there, logically, a number of measures are established both in the tax treatment of those possible returns to which they are entitled and other measures. And, look, the German Government from the next day took action, immediately. And the president himself said it clearly in his statements: the banks should immediately enter the charge unduly in the user accounts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u273	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u274	...and consumers, and at the disposal of all Greek and Greek users have the Welsh office of consumption and competition. That's where you're reporting, processing and managing in this direction for all those users that are available, both by phone, from the website, even with a type form where you just have to put the name...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u275	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u276	...—Filled, Mr President—the consumer data and the loan number. And even with briefings throughout Galicia; it's more, this Thursday there's one in Pontevedra you're invited to go to. Take it, year after year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u277	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u278	...with more than 1,000 users or consumers affected by ground clauses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u279	You have the floor to finish the debate, Mr. Sánchez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u280	Oh, take me soon! [[Applause]] I accept that I had looked like Rafael, but you in his intervention looked like Sméagol, of the Lord of the Rings, "The royal decree is mine..." [[Applause]] [[Laughter]] It's what mattered most to him, the fatherhood of the royal decree, fighting with the Socialist Party to see who deserved it. [[Laughter]] There's the priorities, Mr. Castineira. Watch out for the billboards, just listen to what consumer organizations are saying to see that the billboards don't have to keep them; you don't have to keep them, because what I said here is what consumer organizations say. You appeal a lot to dialogue, but you don't listen to reasons. Look, I explained here why we believe that this royal decree privileges the bank, within which you can always go tow and benefit it in what you can — obviously they can't say that not to a judgement of the European Union's High Court, if they could, if they could do it; if they could still charge those ground clauses, for you were still charging them — within this, all they can, on the bank's side, everything they can, on the bank's side, Look, once again, with the moral character that characterizes me, I'll try to reason. Process costs: "Only if the consumer rejects the calculation of the amount to return the decline", there is only one possibility that the costs of the consumer will not be bottled up. "If the consumer submits a claim against a credit institution without having resorted to the extrajudicial procedure of Article 3, the following rules shall apply: in the event of an infringement, the credit institution before the application is challenged shall be deemed not to be guilty of bad faith, for the purposes of the second paragraph of Article 395.1 of Law 1/2000 of 7 January. In the case of partial delay of the credit institution, in response to the claim, provided that it gives the amount of payment it commits, it may impose the penalty on it only if the consumer obtains a judgment whose economic result is more favourable than the amount given", All, all are advantages to the bank, no sanctioning mechanism, no supervisory mechanism that guarantees that or that it is doing or the bank is not again repeating to the scam. [[Murmurs.]] You imagine -- let's see -- the bank can systematically offer amounts down; to the wisdom, the bad faith can say: let's offer 20% less, systematically. And you don't have any questions you're worried about, you can do it, and there's nothing to punish you for acting in bad faith, nothing, zero. What's going on? Nothing. It can do it systematically, and statistically benefits. Because there's going to be a lot of people who prefer not to go to the counsel, who don't want to pay a lawyer, who don't want to, and he's going to accept; and he's getting benefited, of course if he gets benefited! A lot more than there was an agency between the customer and the bank, for consumer protection, but also a consumer protection since when dealing with the bank, which I think there should be — knowing the background — that intermediary. No one can use that tactic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u281	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u282	You can use the tactic of letting the three months pass without even answering, you don't have to answer. And you say they're obliged to report, but if it's not specified or how!, it's not said as in the decree! An entity can put that information on its website and see where it is in the real decree something that prevents it, nowhere! He's got a lot of evidence that I've tried to explain in the short time. I think it's not, reasonably, as the Socialist Party spokeswoman said, I think they should rethink the vote... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u284	I know that they supported this agreement in Madrid, well, they do as the People's Party, get rid of their colleagues in Madrid, which in this case, in the bank, Madrid didn't do wrong in recent years. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-24-DSPG012.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. We'll hold the meeting until tomorrow, that we'll restart it at ten o'clock in the morning with oral questions to the president of the board. Thank you very much. Ten o'clock in the morning.
