ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u1	Let's start the session. Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament and we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. Proposal for a change of agenda [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] Yeah? What do you want the word for, Mrs. Pontón?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u2	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Article 73.1 states that the agenda for the plenary may be amended by agreement with the plenary, either by proposal from the President or by request of two parliamentary groups or by a fifth of the members of the House. On yesterday, the three groups that we are in the opposition call for an urgent meeting of the United Nations in relation to the damage to time and the action to be taken on this issue. It was an urgent appearance in which we believe it was important for this Parliament to respond to a situation that had serious consequences in our country. We understand that this must not be a substance in today's day, but it could even be tomorrow, but it seems logical to us that, as the House of Parliament is assembled, we are responding to the concerns behind these four walls.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. I understand that there is already a statement by the three groups that have requested it. We have put to the vote the amendment to the agenda. We vote yes or no to change the agenda. Voting of the proposal to amend the agenda requested by the GGs. PP. of the Galego Nationalist Block, the Galician Socialists and En Marea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. The proposal is therefore rejected. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u4	We begin with the agenda of the plenary, in which we have some changes that I have to report to all your lordships. We shall begin with the debate on the legislative text. I have commented on this with the spokesmen, but it is good that all Members know it. After the legislative text, there will be the first appearance, which is that of the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser; then a first motion will be discussed; we will suspend until the afternoon; and we will continue in the afternoon session with the second appearance, which is that of the Infrastructure and Living Adviser. We will discuss the rest of the motions, in particular three motions, we will vote on them and, depending on how the plenary talks, we will debate a non-law proposal. This is the scheme we have for today. So let's start with the first point. Debates and votes on the opinion of the Committee on Tax, Administrative and Budgetary Questions, delivered by Commission 3rd, Economic, Business and Budgets, on the draft law on fiscal, administrative and management measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u5	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. The President of Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, Mr Losada Álvarez, has the floor for the presentation of the dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Presentation of the Opinion on the draft law on tax, administrative and ordination measures. This bill was entered into Parliament's Register on December 3, 2016. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on that same day, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to the 3rd Commission on Economics, Farms and Budgets. The parliamentary groups of En Marea, the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block each presented amendments to the whole, which were qualified on December 30, 2016 and rejected at the plenary session of January 16, 2017. Parliamentary Group in Marea, 37; Parliamentary Group of Socialists in Galicia, 37; and Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block in Galicia, 56 amendments, which were qualified on 16 January 2017. Commission 3rd, Economy, Farm and Budgets, at its meeting on 18 January 2017, appointed the following speakers: by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, holder, Ms Paula Prado del Río, alternate, Fr Martín Fernández Prado; by the People's Group of En Marea, holder, Mr Antón Sánchez García, alternate, Don José Manuel Lago Peñas; by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, holder, Ms Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, alternate, Mr Abel Losada Álvarez; and Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, holder, Ms Noa Presas Bergantiños and alternate wife María Monserrat Prado Cores. At the meetings of 20 and 23 January 2017, the Ponencia studied the articulated text of the Project together with the amendments submitted and completed the report, which contains the recommendations it made to the Commission consisting of adopting by most the amendments made by the People's Parliamentary Group, except for paragraphs 50 to 58a, which were negotiated, and accepting paragraph 12 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Two transactional amendments have been drafted, one with Amendment No. 2 of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and Amendment No. 23 of the Galician Socialist Group. For the most part, the adoption of a compromise text was also recommended, drawn up by Amendments Nos. 50 to 58a of the People's Parliamentary Group. The Commission, meeting on 30 January 2017, adopted by a majority the report of the European Parliament. The text of the speech before the debate and the vote at this plenary meeting contains a explanatory statement, followed by 93 articles, six additional provisions, a transitional provision, five derogatory provisions and five last provisions. The joint is divided into four main headings: the title first, referred to tax measures; the second, on administrative measures; the third, on the management of the regular public passenger transport system; and the fourth, on temporary urban management measures. Title I, divided into several chapters, sets out changes in the regulations governing own taxes and state taxes. Title II regulates various aspects of the following: public service, financial measures, administrative procedure, economy and industry, agriculture, innovation, sea and social services. Title III is devoted to the competition regime, to regular public transport of general use, to the integration and coordination of services in a transport network and to the economic and tariff arrangements for transport services. Title IV lays down several general provisions and regulates the procedure for the approval of provisional instruments for urban management. The regulatory text shall be closed with various provisions contained in the additional, transitional, derogatory and final provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u7	Thank you, Mr. Losada. We therefore turn to the parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, the defence of amendments. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u8	Good morning. First of all, I want to move the regret — let's call it that — from my group because it was wrong to accept the opposition's proposal to modify the agenda to make a brief comment that is now being made on the public radio of this country. Right now, there are five houses in Guntín that have been kept out of light for five days without light, ten houses in Navia de Suanna, and there are houses and parishes also on the Road that have been, I say, five days without light. I'm also going to move what I was collecting right now on the public radio in relation to the words of a neighbor: "We're getting rid of all of this patience, and we understand that this government should explain what's happening in our country today." [[Applause]] It's not a single problem and it's only if you have or have not fulfilled the electricals with the protocols after the temp. And I also pick up the words of a neighbor yesterday on public television; I say that it's not a propagandistic poster but the public television itself, where it was recognized that what is not met is the cleaning of electrical curtains, and that, therefore, when the temporal comes, the logical thing is that the trees that had to be cut before fall upon the curtain. It is absolutely embarrassing that a country producing surplus energy, exporting electricity, has the neighborhood five days without light, in some cases next to three corners, as happened in the town of Touro. By focusing a little more on the issue that we are facing today, which is the Law on Tax and Accompaniment Measures, the Law on Tax and Administrative Measures, which is more known as "Accompaniment Law", I think this House is already aware of the opinion that we deserve from the Group of the Nationalist Block Galego this rule. We are absolutely opposed, both in the background and in the form, to the use by the People's Party of this legal measure, of a band, because we believe that 21 laws — and I repeat, 21 laws — cannot be amended by the back door without the result of an ordinary, peaceful parliamentary debate, which includes not only this House — have been repeated on several occasions, both in this plenary and in the Commission, and without taking into account the views of the collectives concerned by these legal amendments themselves. And, on the other hand, because we believe that the Government of the People's Party is somehow amending itself in this accompanying law. And why do we say that he amends himself in this legal measure? Because if they're somehow modifying laws that in some cases didn't even reach the current year. Some of them haven't even been approved a year ago, in other cases they exceed for a few months the year of their entry into force. And it's a law that its nature is intended to change on time those legal provisions that need, in some ways, to be modified with a budgetary vision. What we see in these 21 rules that are reformed in this Accompanying Law is that this premise is not met. For example, the law governing the collective transport regime is reinforced. It was approved in April 2016. Not even twelve months have passed since its entry into force. It was then reformed after they had been denied justice for the 2011 reform attempt. So the processing had been by means of urgency, in single reading; now it's not even met with these premises. They reform the reformed so we don't know very well that, because we followed the same concessionary companies, some of them -- we remind them here at the previous plenary session -- accused of having attacked Nelida Pisco with psychoterrorist actions in 2009 -- and I don't say so, I said work inspection -- and others are now warning them that they will leave the service because they say it's not reprehensible to them, as the company's case arrives on the line connecting The Navy and Ferrol. You reform without dialogue and the problems remain on the table, because what this country needs with regard to the regime governing collective transport in Galicia is to rethink the map of the transport itself and deploy the service efficiently, but ensuring access to it by the population as a whole, particularly those living in rural areas. Another example of express reform that we find in this Accompanying Law is the Land Law, which dates back to February last year. Then we were told that it was a law of the future. We see that the future is short for you and they are determined to patch through this accompanying law the problems that have arisen after the nullity of the PEXOM of Ourense, and also, as indicated in the commission itself, of the PEXOM of Vigo. That is indeed, without technical means or consultative bodies, the Higher Committee on Urbanism, the Town Councils, and the Fegamp, but through an entirely hasty drafting; change with which they give due to good, moreover, legally declared illegal issues. They say they want to, the committee has already given us this rebuttal, but that's the way it is. With the same procedure, the amendment of the Mountain Law, a law passed in 2011 — it is also true, it has lasted a little longer — and now they have changed without consulting the sector, nor even the Forest Council; a reform in which even the concept of mountain law, which we see as having a quiet budget fund, and, in passing, as you were put into flour, liberalize the biomass sector by derogating the decree that limited the capacity of these plants to 10 megawatts. What's this got to do with the budgets? Nothing. What is it that you want with this change? Open the fence, free bar, lords, for energy crops, mainly the eucalyptus nitens. The limitation that was fixed regarding the potential of biomass plants in Decree 149/2008 that you now liquidate was determined by a model whose objective was to jump by the use of the available raw material, mainly fruit of the scrap of the mountains, but taking into account the sustainability of the process; for us all to understand: to prevent the settlement in our country of an electrical production model based on the model of the large thermals by, in this case, energy crops; i.e. to flee from the model: plant-burn-planting; plant-burn-planting. In committee, the People's Party called for the rest of the political forces to remain calm saying that the eucalyptus would not proliferate in Galicia because the Union had just fixed the ban on planting this species in 10% of our country's territory, which must be about the surface of the eastern mountain, in which the eucalyptus no longer rise by altitude. The eucalyptus currently occupies one quarter of Galician tree area — not the data from the Galego Nationalist Block, are the data of the Spanish Ministry of Agriculture, which is far from Adega—, more than 250,000 hectares between The Coruña, Lugo and Pontevedra, not counting the nearly 40,000 restockings with new copies; a figure that places Galicia in front of Australia paradoxically from the territory of which this species would originate, because, according to Spain's National Forest Inventory, the number of eucalyptus is placed in our country in 80 million units. We're far from being that country of the million cows Manuel Rivas told us about, and we've become the country of the 80 million units in eucalyptus. To make a comparison to understand us -- because I'm also from the generation of the image, and we need a lot of visual content to see the magnitude of things -- the number of hectares that today occupy cattle and milk farms is 230,000. We have more mountains and eucalyptus than land to feed musk cows in our country. Do you look normal? Not to us. You see, you always look the other way, however, I invite you to look, even if it's unique and exclusively from your eye, to Portugal. I know you're more scurrying towards the Meseta, but from time to time you can look to the other side and see what the Portuguese Government just approved yesterday: a freeze of the forest with eucalyptals until 2030 and start a progressive reforestation process with native trees, mainly oak and oak, among others. It's a measure, by the way, based on a decree passed by the former Portuguese right-wing government. That's called having a plan, but having a plan away from the interests of Ence -- by the way, energy and cellulose -- Where interest lies, we understand it by liberalizing biomass. That's to give pleasure to a plant that plans to settle in Curtis and that he's already been trying to increase the capacity of energy production, beyond the limitation set by the decree that now falls. This is just a few of the issues set out in the Accompanying Act, in addition to reforming the Aquaculture Act, regulating the game, criteria governing the relationship between the Consortium and the municipalities or the employment situation of the public staff. Up to 21 standards reformed by the back door, opaquely and by a procedure that will be very legal but little or nothing transparent. And it's not that I say it, the Galego Nationalist Block or the opposition, it's that it says it itself by the Professional Association of Letters of the Consultative Council of Galicia, to the thread of a reform incorporated also in this Accompanying Law, which foresees the disappearance of this body. Again, a decision that has nothing to do with — they will agree with me — with the budgets and of which you are warned by the lawyers themselves that, if approved, they might be incuring in a — and open quotes — "patent of illegality". There you go with the button on which you put your finger in a piece. We have them clear: we are going to vote against this Accompanying Law — I repeat — for a fundamental reason, but also for a form reason, because neither is this the procedure to be followed in the reform of 21 laws, nor are we in agreement that this Tax and Administrative Measures Act should be collected. For my own sake, nothing more for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today in this plenary we are finally going to vote on this Act of fiscal, administrative and ordination measures, this Act of accompaniment. It will be approved, as you like to do things to you, to those of the People's Party, exercising your absolute majority. The truth is, yes, you always remind us of your absolute majority, which, in fact -- and was already said yesterday -- is only 47.53%, compared to 46.31%, but still, you have the majority to do it, with your vows. But it's a way of making it quite peculiar, since you don't give us an option to the opposition to be able to have time to know in depth each of the subjects we're going to approve. [[Applause]] We have to document ourselves, since we are not experts on all the subjects that you present to us here. And, as you know, we want to have a serious debate, we haven't seen the passing of time here, nor, as one of my comrades said, the exhausting of parliamentary minutes. We want to talk about the topics that bring us, but we also need to advise ourselves, find contrasting information and give audiences to stakeholders in each of the subjects, and don't forget that with this procedure you have amended 21 laws. You want to avoid the necessary debate in the parliamentary procedure by not respecting the plurality of this parliamentary arc. You want to avoid our contributions, which are legitimate and which must also be taken into account. And you want to avoid, above all, the participation of economic and social agents involved in each of the reforms of these 21 laws that you modify. I know what they're going to tell us. They're going to tell us it's legal; and yes, I repeat, and I've already said it in committee, it's legal, but you yourselves keep that it's not the most appropriate legislative resource. So we don't understand that they keep this fact, this way of ruling. And we couldn't find a single reason why it should be done with an emergency procedure, even though in the previous plenary, we were told of the imperatives for their approval. The truth is that every time the president of the People's Party or any of the advisers of the People's Party comes out, they speak to us in all parliamentary debates, in all the statements they make to the media, in dialogue with the opposition, in hand aimed at opposition and reaching agreements. But the People's Party's proposal for dialogue is that you propose and we accept it without reply. That's not dialogue, that's not hand-held, that's taxation and submission, and we, on this side of here, are not willing to submit to or impose anything on us. Of course, we're going to requisition. [[Applause]] I will not recall again what the General Legal Counsel's own report says for this project, since I have already read it in the previous intervention, but if I say only the last sentence: "It can in some way affect the effective exercise of the right to political participation of the statutory powers". So they don't really agree with this way of ruling either. Even this way, this way that things have to do, is against the very laws that you approve of with your absolute majority. Not yet a year ago, on February 15th, the law of transparency and good government has been published, so there is not yet a year since its vigil, and that law is already published. It's true, they post it in the DOG, they take it in the Transparency Portal, but then they don't do it. In this law, in its own explanatory statement, in paragraph 2 and I shall read in writing: "In the state legal system the Constitution itself already provides for the regulation of citizen access to certain administrative information. At the same time, the fundamental right to participation in public affairs, as set out in Article 23, should not be understood, as we said, to the right to suffrage, but to the capacity of citizenship to be a fundamental actor in the pursuit, control and monitoring of the activities of the public authorities." It's your law, it's your deal. This is not a way of talking about dialogue, of holding hands, of transparency. This is just a facewash. The commitment to transparency goes far beyond a mere statement of intent. By the way, yesterday even in the press was news: Galicia is one of the four communities that cuts its level of transparency, placing fifth place, starting below; that is, number 13 of 17, according to the index of the organization Transparency International Spain. And it also indicates that the worst score is achieved in the category of contracts, agreements, grants and service costs. And in the area of transparency, spatial planning, urbanism and public works has the second worst grade. So those of the opposition who are so disoriented shouldn't go when we ask them for greater transparency and not only to pass the laws, but to prove it with facts. We stress again — and we have already spoken about it in the committee — that there is no, at least, in the document that has been delivered to us, the reports needed by the various advisors regarding the changes they propose, and there are no economic impact reports, even though you say they are. I would recommend that you read the reports of the Legal Counsel, which are part of the document that is delivered to you, and there you are. They prevent, as I said before, the participation of the sectors concerned, and I would like to refer them back to the report of the Legal Counsel, which I will not read again, but there clearly. We therefore insist that the Socialists find no weight to justify the use of this exceptionality. They deliver us a document with 92 articles and 15 provisions. They modify 21 laws, such important laws as the Water Law, public employment, housing, health, mountains, social services, mining, transport and ports. At last, about 20 of them. If we come into what are the partial amendments presented by our group, we present 37 amendments, amendments that we meditate, study and consent, despite the urgency of the parliamentary process and the criticism that we continue to make, but we incorporate in our amendments the contributions and requests requested by the unions, by the body of lawyers of the Advisory Council, by the Official College of Biologists or by the Taxi Associations, among others. And, look, by entering the first amendment, we have tabled an amendment to the tax measures in chapter I of the tax exemption. The only thing we are asking you to do was extend that deduction to the property tax and legal acts documented for the purchase of habitual housing to the rest of the families with limited resources. You propose: for children under 36, disabled and numerous families. And we don't understand why you can't benefit from this little one comes to families that have less economic resources, and considering, in addition, that the scope of the measure itself is quite small. Administrative measures, civil service. The Socialists propose a series of amendments and abolitions, to prevent the substantial amendment of the Public Employment Act in Galicia without the preceptive negotiation and necessary parliamentary debate. We do not agree that this law is used to amend laws regulating general matters without having a close relationship with the budgetary field or the financial field. Our amendments try to force you — or make you think — to comply with the collective agreement for employees of the Galician administration, forgotten for eight years, and to convene the Bureau of functions in all categories, as it collects the agreement. From the Socialist Group we don't know the real intention of these measures; the only thing they want, it seems, is to atomize the service and create staff in different categories with the same functions, creating a new category called "people of general services." It's rather curious that in committee 3 the People's Party explains that the content of this chapter of Public Service collected the agreements reached with the trade union centres on the staff of the Social Services Consortium and the fire-extinguishing panels to regularize their situation, and that they had received and negotiated with the trade union centres these aspects. Well, it seems pretty curious to us, and it shouldn't be exactly like that, because, if I'm not mistaken, there was still a demonstration yesterday in front of this building. It must be the third that we have, the third manifestation, apart from that which was also in the cities of Greece. So the workers, the welfare consortium or the forest fire extinguishers must not be so happy, and not all their proposals should be collected. In fact, all they accept is an amendment by the People's Party, number 20, which is an addition to article 17a, in which all they do is reproduce the provisions of the law itself. I mean, there's a law, there's an amendment to the law, but then you don't comply. I mean, they again approve the laws to wash their faces, not to comply with them. You're artists doing what they do, but the truth is they don't do anything. In chapter V, of economics and industry, we simply presented an amendment to the composition of the Galician Trade Council. And the only proposal we put on was to involve economic and social agents, that is, a representative designated by the most representative business organisations in the commercial sector and another by trade union centres with more representation in Galicia. It wouldn't be so hard for them to accept this amendment. In Chapter VI, agriculture, section 1a, mountains, we really want to clarify the definition of a competent forest technician. I don't see anything strange in him so they could admit this amendment. In Chapter VII, innovation, public procurement of innovation, the only thing we ask for is greater transparency towards Parliament, making us aware of both investment results and returns from the public sector. So it doesn't seem to have anything strange in your mind, either, so you won't be able to pass this amendment. And Article 63 simply calls for it to be deleted, since we understand that this aspect is already regulated in the sectoral laws themselves. Chapter IX, social services, co-financing regime in services provided by the Galego Consortium for Services of Equality and Welfare or whether it replaces it in collaboration with municipalities and communities. In our amendment we ask for the voluntary nature of local authorities to join the Consortium. The answer we were given in the Commission itself is that we were going against what we ourselves approved in the Fegamp. No, it's not exactly like that. The starting conditions are not the same and therefore the conventions do not have to be the same. Those municipalities that are in agreement, but there are other municipalities -- and I know some -- believe me that I know them well -- that with their own funds they built these residential centers. So I don't think it makes sense that the contribution is exactly the same. So you'll have to study each of the peculiarities. And, of course, a framework agreement has been approved, but the agreements must be signed by both sides and count on the willingness of both sides. In Title IV, interim measures of urban management, yes, here we come to a transaction with the People's Party. And in this sense it's the only one that's accepted, the truth is that it's all Title IV; of course, there were interests, but good. The Socialists here tabled an amendment to the whole title with the object that provisional measures for urban management could be laid down in those assumptions that the declaration of nullity of all or part of a municipal urban planning instrument or decree so that the vigilance of this urban planning by firm judgment would not be removed. I mean, to guarantee legal security to both economic agents and social agents. I believe that this amendment was absolutely necessary to solve a major problem in those municipalities where their urban planning instrument has been cancelled. And it wouldn't be logical for them to return to an earlier instrument that often — or almost always — does not contemplate the peculiarities and the social and economic changes that are taking place at that time. So, in that sense, thank you. Second additional provision, vehicles authorised for the provision of transport services. The truth is, I'm not going to stop here because you've collected an amendment tabled by the People's Party which is practically textual to which we were presenting. Additional fourth provision, integration of the body of lawyers into the Advisory Council. We here also tabled an amendment because we do not understand that in such a small body there is a law passed by you just over two years ago and without knowing the reasons that lead you to this change. On the one hand, to remove the body of counsel from the Advisory Council, which becomes part of the general administration body, and becomes freely designated. And, on the other hand, the General Secretariat will no longer be exercised...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u12	...for an official, becoming a high office—if, finished, president. We call for the removal of this provision. Here too they will tell us that they received and negotiated with the body of lawyers, but yesterday the press was flooded in which the lawyers criticized the reform of the Advisory Council stating that they did not strengthen their independence, unless you understand that with a free designation the independence of the said body is not reduced. Well, as I will have occasion in the reply to continue with our exhibition, we understand that it's not the best way and therefore we are totally against this law and this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u14	Good morning. The People's Party, despite the fact that in 2009, he was asking the—according to them—uncapable and passive Government bipartisan to the appearance of Touriño to speak of the cuts of light due to the storm, once again shows his true face and denies the presence of Mr. Feijóo, although they are so incapable, inept and passive, it seems to be, as was the Bipartite at that time, since the effects of a temporal and other were similar or similar, only eight years after the rule of the People's Party. It's okay. It has already been announced, to try to stem people's indignation, electrical records, to try to calm people's spirits, that it had to be four days without light, that it had to seek life for breathing machines, for grinding machines... for everything. Well, who's going to open the file for the Galician Board when it's discovered that what happened wasn't a four-day matter? It was a question that throughout all these years the Galician Union and the Directorate-General of Industry have failed to fulfil their obligation to ensure that the Fenosa Union, the distributor, kept the lines and used the investment plans for which it charged 800-9 billion euros annually to make a proper maintenance of the lines. Or who opens a file to the People's Party that, with the laws, allowed Fenosa to subcontract, outsource and precarious the workers who make that maintenance? Of course, because for Fenosa, to get benefits, it's very good to fire people and only hire people for days depending on needs, but when you notice it's when something like this happens, and what happens. Third-worlders, lords of the People's Party, third-worlders. Well, then let's go back to the Law on tax and administrative measures. The phrase of the discussion of the Law on tax and administrative measures was given to Mrs Prado, who said in an interview to a newspaper that "it's not the best legislative technique, but it's legal." Well, it's legal, for you it's already a legal merit; for you it's already a merit, of course, but it's not the best legislative technique. It is also legal to have Mr. Arsenio Fernández of Bureau at the Electric Network Board of Directors chargeing EUR 150,000, but it is a shame. [[Applause]] It's indecent. [[Applause]] But we already know that the People's Party is incompatible with corruption. [[Applause]] It's not too embarrassing for them either. It's one of the most. They've already put the man of Cospedal Pain in this same board of administration of the Electric Network. As we all paid, the free market lovers all on board of directors that depend on decisions of the public administrations, those lovers of the free market. As the People's Party is also incompatible with corruption, we are going to speak in this case of the amendments that we tabled to the reform which it is attempting to make by the back door the People's Party and Mr Rueda in this Advisory Council Accompanying Act of Mr. Costa Pillado; Costa Pillado, accused of Operation Condor. It all interferes here in these matters where there are relationships: Operation Condor, transport system — which is also modified in this law, of cover too — the conversations between Raúl López, Monbus's entrepreneur, and the president of the Advisory Council, Costa Pillado, to see how it was best to enter into Mr. Rueda's place to reform the Public Transport Act. We did not scandalize ourselves, so they served the bottles of Vega Sicilia, so that this lord Raúl López could have a relationship of trust with certain characters who approved laws that eventually benefited him. That's right, it's been classified since 2010 in 422 of the Criminal Code and nothing happens. And this gentleman in charge said he didn't know anything about it. The next day was to testify to the judge. The President of the Consultative Council lies in the Galician Parliament! The president of the Advisory Council admitted that he was talking to this businessman, and this businessman, in the recordings of this summary, wanted all the opinions that had some problem to pass through the Advisory Council because he had 99% assurance that it would go well — and I didn't make it up to him —. And then you bring us a proposal for reform of the Advisory Council to eliminate the body of lawyers, to pass them to the general body of the Galician Union, in a context of this gentleman's confrontation with the officials, because this gentleman since he arrived has not respected the independence of these officials. And for the Advisory Council one of the main requirements and characteristics of its work is independence. That's why since his birth he has had a body of his own, the body of lawyers, and that's no coincidence. That is why we have made amendments to ensure the independence of the Advisory Council. And that's why you're doing a reform on the part of Mr. Costa Pillado, instead of demanding his resignation, because he can't remain in front of an organism that deserves another prestige. And you stand aside and against the officials to make a reform that from our point of view undermines the independence of this body. They demand the resignation of this gentleman, this gentleman cannot remain president of the Advisory Council any more. Mr. Rueda, if this reform was your idea, it was a very bad idea, it goes down a very bad path. I have already told you that you and Mr. Feijóo are not charged because they are spared, but this gentleman is charged by the very thing that happened to you: to receive for several years bottles of Vega Sicilia. They're charged and you're not because you're away. And during these years that you were receiving bottles of Vega Sicilia more than 600 euros, your government made decisions that favored the companies that gave them. Those are facts. I don't know if that deserves an explanation or it doesn't deserve an explanation. From our point of view and democratic hygiene, it certainly deserves it, Mr. Rueda. Well, democratic hygiene, transparency and participation... well, as I said, it's legal, but it's not the best legislative technique — turning it back to Mrs Prado's sentence. And what gets within these 20 legislative amendments? So nothing but many transcendent, structural and substantive issues that nothing has to do with budgets. What does the People's Party do for? Well, so that you don't know, to hide and solve concrete problems of a series of failures that the People's Party has had over the past 30 years in issues such as land management, betting by a valuable and job-creating forest sector, etc. And for that, he uses this law, because it's the most opaque means that they don't see their shames. On the one hand — and we have already reiterated — an approved Law, 2/2016, of Galician soil. We remember the appearances, we remember the speeches of the counsellor and the aspirant adviser—frustrated—to the mayor of Santiago de Compostela that this had to be done, that if he reformed the Law only once every year; as happened with the Louga — eleven or twelve years of vigency, ten changes from the Louga. You had to finish what you made a change per year. Well, you've already beaten the record, two changes a year, you're in. And the whole court sentence blow, the whole improvisation blow, which shows a total lack of planning, lack of project, lack of reflection and lack of respect for judicial judgements when they are not appropriate. Of course, lack of absolute respect. The detonator of the first change was the annulment of the Vigo General Plan. There was an amendment which was not restricted to Vigo, which opened the door to which it had been done in all the municipalities of Galicia, when there were already approved, legal and more guarantees that gave a solution to Vigo's specific problems. We proposed that it should be done through the figure of the sectoral plan of supramunicipal incidence. The People's Party approved a change at that time. The ruling that annulled Ourense's provisional urban planning, adopted by Mr Feijóo, by the Government of the People's Party, before a general plan of municipal planning cancelled, was the detonating fact that you in this law of fiscal and administrative measures had introduced a new amendment to the Law of the De facto Land; although it is not legally an amendment, it is a de facto amendment. And what they do is, once again, an escape forward that doesn't guarantee legal security or guarantee better planning for the country, it guarantees to follow the same path that we've been all these years: first it goes to reality and then the law has seen reality. Urban law does not serve to plan the country, to plan the soil, urban law serves to then look like reality. But they look as improvised to the People's Party that in the law where this group presented 138 amendments the article 96 of the Louga was annulled, which was a suspension of planning and approval of temporary urban planning. You didn't want to approve it a year ago and now you're back to resurrect it, only worse, because it's not true that the previous plan, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, if you suspend, the obsolete plan, no. The plan is not suspended. And while Article 96 was a precautionary measure so that there was no lack of developmentalism in this country... that the problem is not the lack of developmentalism and urban expansion, on the contrary, irrational expansion. It was a precautionary measure, and this is, on the other hand, a measure to circumvent the fulfilment of judgments so that you can make this developmental model that you defend, without having to adapt, not even according to Article 89, to Law 2/2016, to Galician soil. But you also make transcendental changes to the Mountain Law, when we were sold a year ago that they were talking to the sector and we were telling them: to make a forest model in this country, we don't just have to talk to the forest sector, we have to talk to the livestock, to the farmers, we have to talk to a lot more people because it's a matter that affects the whole country and it connects with many other sectors. Well, this time you're neither with the sector nor with anyone. You put in a law of fiscal and administrative measures reforms such as the expansion of the area that can be reforested. Do you think that if there is a joint reflection process in this country to have a forest model integrated into our agricultural model the solution or the idea that it comes out there is going to be that we need more forest surface?, in a country that has two thirds already forest area?, in a country that loses useful land area and where the landowners need land base to be competitive in order to survive this jungle? No, this country doesn't need that. There is no technician — no honest technician who doesn't work for Ence — who says that the problem of this country is that there isn't enough forest area. The problem of this country is the quality of the forest area that there is, and that you, by the way, have not managed to improve in so many years of government, and if you don't look at sulphur, management societies and forest development. How long have they been? 0.01% of the forest surface at most, an absolute failure, and you're wrong. It is the improvement of surface quality, not the magnification of the surface. But we already know what interests they're working for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, and you have to repeat it over and over again, another example of their rotational door policy. Carlos del Alamo, former Environmental Adviser at the Board of Directors; Isabel Tocino, former Environment Minister, at the Board of Directors. And you collaborated to give them an extension of seventy more years when they were taking in the electoral programs that they wanted to move Ence from Pontevedra's river. They lied once more, they lied once more! [[Applause]] They lied and collaborated even to leave the last word of the approval of that extension to Ence, which conditions the entire forest sector of the country, to the state, when it was previously held by the Council of Galicia. That question of assigning sovereignty to matters that are so important to this country should also shame them, as should be the shame of lying to them in election programs. Well, you put this on top of it: more surface and more free bar for all kinds of species. In the Mountain Law there are three guiding models for ordering the mountain, more to less rigorous, more to less important. They couldn't reach them, they now create a kind of code of good practice, like in the banks. Forest model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u15	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u16	...orientative. Do I have 52 seconds left?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u17	But I just told him to finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u18	All right, thank you very much, Mr. President. Guidance forest model. What does that mean? That, by decree, the Galician Union will be able to approve this guidance forest model, by decree, without having to go through the procedures that pass the other management instruments to put all kinds of species in. We already know why you bet on the forest model, and what we have is what the figures reflect. A short time ago, the sector itself dropped some figures: Galicia accounts for 50% of the Spanish state's cuts. Do you know how much he represents in billing? 13%. They're counting: a lot of money, low quality, low employment, low invoicing, little wealth remains in the country; it's a completely impoverishing model. You also make changes in public employment here that seriously affect temporary workers. They're manifesting themselves constantly. They must not agree very well. They're defending their rights, which you intend to steal, they intend to send them to the street without compensation, and so on, and so on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u20	We also asked that Law 1/2012 be repealed, which also annulled workers' basic rights and which, in theory, was an interim measure during the crisis. If there's no more crisis, Mr. Economic Counsellor, why don't you override this law, which has reduced the workers' rights? We must also regret that the only agreement reached by the People's Party and the Socialist Party... we regret that the Socialist Party has reached an agreement with the People's Party to pursue the same path of land management, urbanism in this country. We'd like those big agreements to be reserved for you to give you a draft and a new account...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u22	...to the policy that has been developed in the Land Law of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u23	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today we have reached the final line of the Tax Law for 2017, a law which, despite the criticisms received, proves to be an effective instrument, since it introduces some legislative amendments that are absolutely necessary to comply with the basic state legislation, to comply with judgments or even to make effective certain agreements with public staff. Mr. Sánchez, in the legislative technique there are more effective instruments than others, better than others, but all are absolutely valid. Some jurists prefer to abuse decrees, some prefer to abuse legislation... well, that's not critical. The Constitutional Court has already told them that it has been revealed about the accompanying laws and has said that it is an ordinary law and that, as such, it can go into regulating any matter, it has no expressly assigned. And, as you know, because you rule in some autonomous communities, in those autonomous communities... yes, because we can rule in Aragon, we can rule in Valencia, and, without ruling, where governments support, they also voted in favour of these accompanying laws. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, the first thing to have in politics, Mr. Sánchez, is coherence; Mrs. Rodríguez, it is coherence, because, of course, you come here to criticize the Accompanying Law and in communities like Cantabria have amended 15 laws through the Accompanying Law, PSOE, Podemos and PRC. In Aragon they modified 31 rules, 31 Mrs. Rodríguez! Put your hands to your head, because you went up here completely indignant and it turns out that in Aragon, PSOE, Podemos, Izquerda Unida and the Aragonesesista Chunta have passed a accompanying law that amends no more than 31 rules. Or in Generalitat, 23 rules, and the Socialist Party voted in favour of Generalitat. Or in the Valencian Community. Tell Mr. Ximo Puig or Monica Oltra that it's an absolute barbarity to change 32 standards. These are the Champions League of Tax Measures Act. [[Applause]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen, it's not only important, it's essential to be coherent in politics. I know, Mrs. Rodríguez, that you have many difficulties within the Party and that it is not the same party in Valencia, that the party in Andalusia, that the party in Galicia, and even within each autonomous community have two, three or four lines of argument. But it would be good if they were a little coherent. After two months of working in this law, after analyzing it, studying it and having discussed it, having met with the affected sectors, having met with the union representatives of employees and public employees, we also collect in our amendments suggestions and we also collect some of them in the form of amendments, and, if not, we also arrive at agreements. We will then speak of the outrage the Socialist Party has about getting to agreements or about getting on the knee, because, of course, Mrs Rodil even in the committee in which we discussed the report she said that she was delighted to have debate, that in this law, at least, there was debate. Mrs. Rodil, you didn't even consume the 15 minutes I had in the plenary today, and in the debate of the committee you said you had debate on this law, and now they come to criticize, precisely, that there was no debate in this law. Well, all right, I think all the issues that come into this law were sufficiently debated and, in addition, explained, as Mr. Sánchez also acknowledged in committee, who said he was very grateful for the explanations that had been given to him on some of the issues he had had doubts about. But I see, Mr. Sánchez, that you, the truth is, you have cleared up a lot of doubts in the parliamentary debate since December 3, which has entered the law, until today, because you, the issues you raised in the debate to the whole today have not raised them, and I think it's because you have them clear enough and because there are things in which you had doubts, and, once you've passed the presentation and commission work, you came to the conclusion that they were absolutely necessary modifications. We approved in this law a drop in taxes in rural areas. Mrs Rodríguez asked, in an amendment to the Socialist Party, to include the issue for families with little economic resources. Well, there's Mr. Leicega. He can explain to you, Mr Leicega — not now, but later — that it is not the indirect imposition of the right place to introduce circumstances proper to direct taxation, that this is regulated in taxes such as the IRPF. That circumstance already exists as an accessory, since it must be taken into account in the direct taxes which lay down taxable bases of a general nature. I'm sure Mr. Leicega agrees with me on that matter. This is about fixing population in rural areas and favoring that certain groups have a number of exemptions to settle in rural areas. In forest matters, Mrs. Rodil and Mr. Sánchez, that you are very critical of this subject, there has been no political change. Administration does not encourage eucalyptus planting. For more than 20 years, there's been no help for this tree. He always had more demand for this plantation than any other species because it is profitable and rapidly revalues the land. The Galician Parliament, as you know, urged the Government of Greece to regulate the planting of nites, and so the regulation states that only eucalyptus nites can be planted in those areas where there are approved forestry orientations for eucalyptus; where there are no such ones can only be approved through a forest resource management plan. In any case, the criteria for the revision of the Galician Forest Plan, drawn up by the sector, include that eucalyptus plantations should be regulated as regards their expansion. And from the point of view of forest strategy, it's important to maintain pine production by avoiding risks of excessive monoculture of eucalyptus nites. Is it clear to you, Mrs. Rodil? Because, of course, here you come, speak, speak, and then... yes, look, our interests are the interests of the landowners, the landowners, the families and the people who live in the countryside and work in the countryside. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] And yes, if the common people -- the one you talk about as much -- of the common people -- thought that the People's Party was more interested in Ence, Mr. Sánchez, and not in the interests of those people who plant and those people who have small forest plantations -- they wouldn't vote for the People's Party as they did on September 25. And you know that if you were so right and the interests of the People's Party were those of Ence, people were neither ignorant nor alienated people, and people voted what they think best to defend their interests, and in this case it's the People's Party. [[Applause]] They also criticized us for collecting in the law a Fegamp agreement, no less than that of Fegamp, on the co-financing regime for services provided by the Galician Consortium for Equality and Welfare Services. We can't accept your amendments because those amendments are against the agreement signed with Fegamp. But, let's see, Mrs. Noela, do you have the absolute truth? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Like it's not true! But you read the deal—then I pass it, it's hung on the website. It would be interesting if you had read before you came here and changed so much. Don't worry, don't worry if you... and also the Fegamp isn't governed either by the People's Party. [[Applause]] We must remember that the president of the Fegamp is from the Socialist Party. I mean, you can talk to him about his club, clan or ideological line, pachist or...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u25	We will remove it from the clan, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u26	Yes, yes, I'm sorry, Mr. President, if you mind, there's no problem. Here we can hear "corruption," the "party of corruption," but we cannot say that there is a clan, that within the Socialist Party there are clans. No, so different ideological lines. [[Applause]] Thank you for the correction, Mr. President. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, then the law also sets out issues that allow for government commitments, as is what affects thousands of people, such as the process of operating workers, which will promote their job and professional stability, in particular the Forest Fire Prevention and Defence Service and the Equality Consortium, the result of agreements with trade union representatives. This question that was also the battlehorse of opposition groups, but surprisingly all opposition groups voted against amendment 20 of the People's Party, adding, to article 17, which specifically said: " Negotiations with trade union organizations. Where the decisions of the Administration under the authority of the organization recognised in this Title have consequences which affect the working conditions of the public employees collected in Article 153 of Law 2/2015 of 29 April 2015, of Galicia's public employment, it shall negotiate these conditions with the trade union organisations in accordance with the provisions of that Act." And you voted against reaching agreement with union representatives. What are you talking about, Mrs. Rodríguez, when she goes up to this gallery and says the People's Party does things by the back door, without the union contributions...? But if you have just voted against this amendment, what you are asking is that you negotiate with the trade union organizations those issues of the law that affect and have repercussions on the working conditions of public employees! Mrs. Rodríguez, you have just been very critical of your intervention with the lack of dialogue of the People's Party. It's amazing, because, look, our absolute majority has stayed in the polls, and here's what we've been showing since the beginning of the legislation is a desire for dialogue. I have already told them in committee that I was very glad to begin legislation by reaching agreements, very important, especially in terms of gender and equality violence, something absolutely unthinkable in the past legislation when you voted against or did not accept a single amendment, nor did they come to an agreement with the People's Party because they preferred a headline who said, "The People's Party votes against equality," "The People's Party does not accept this gender violence initiative." Why? Because you were the ones who were trying to manipulate these issues. You used equality as a political daring weapon. I'm glad they don't do it now. But, look, there's no knee on our side, Mrs. Rodríguez, there's no knee on our side. Because, look, what do you amend us in this law? Of the 130 amendments tabled by the opposition, 83 are of suppression, which has been an amendment to the whole but through partial amendments. Well, 64% of the amendments are suppressed. We don't want to pass the knee, but what we're not going to allow is that you're not trying to pass the knee via partial amendments. Have an alternative, make an alternative proposal. They didn't, their alternative was suppression. The other four manifestly ask for illegal matters. The Marea, invading State powers in the field of maritime-terrestrial public domain, contravene the basic legislation on public sector boards or the Socialist Party by introducing actors into trade authorisations which are vetoed by European legislation. We can't accept it either. It's not about avoiding them, Mrs. Rodríguez, that we can't accept issues that contravene other laws. And seven others ask us to change texts that, as I told them, come made by stakeholders, such as the pact with Fegamp or the pact with employees and public employees for the functionalization of public employees of the Consortium and the Fire Prevention Service. Another 15 amendments were closely linked to tax matters, taxes that you want to put on citizenship. And we've already told them in yesterday's debate, and I repeat to them in today's debate, that we're not willing to continue raising taxes to people. People are already going through pretty bad things to keep raising their taxes. It's you, and you're complicit because you're proposing and others are voting for these initiatives. So, I'd like you to tell me, Mrs. Rodríguez, what contributions of the PSdeG we didn't take into account. Because, look, by removing the suppression amendments, the illegal ones, the ones that have gone out of time... because you talked here about a very important issue, which was the agreement we reached on urbanism. As far as urbanism is concerned, Mrs. Rodríguez, you have tabled nine amendments on a long-term basis. And the People's Party has dealt with you these amendments despite being out of date. And now you accuse us of lack of dialogue, Mrs. Rodríguez? [[Murmurs.]] Look, we really wanted to build and that's why we negotiated that issue so important that it was Title IV. There's no roller here, because in regulating temporary urban management measures we're worried about cities like Vigo. You spoke of Ourense. But, look, Ourense has drafted the whole general plan. It's only pending approval. And what has Mr. Knight done for 15 months? Nothing! The sentence of Vigo's General Plan is October 2015, and until today it hasn't played a single role on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u27	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u28	...the new general plan. And this regulation favors that, where there are general interests, you can favor job creation, projects already started, and not harm Vigo's citizens and citizens, Mrs. Rodríguez. And the truth is, after all your speech here is a lack of dialogue, less bad than thank you. If you thank us, it will be because it favors Mr. Caballero in Vigo this new regulation. Not so much in Ourense, that you know that you don't have an absolute majority and you have a lot of difficulty to draw a new general plan from the mayor of Ourense. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But the mayor of Vigo, who has an absolute macromajority, could have already done and remade the new general plan. [[Murmurs.]] Because there's an important part of the Vigo General Plan that, as you know, is already done, and they haven't even moved a paper. But, well, of the fifteen minutes you've been here, you've spent a few minutes talking about that question that favors people who live in the largest city in Galicia; and also other municipalities that may have difficulties because it's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u30	...set a general plan. I'm still on the next shift. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the round to define itself on the amendments, you have the floor to Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u32	Well, thank you. If all you have to say, Mrs. Prado, about the Galician Nationalist Block is that I don't spend my intervention times, look, we usually talk when we have something to say. Other people will be delighted to listen to themselves here, rum, rum... turning around like a peonza. [[Applause]] I think you can be clear and concise, and you can spend as much time as it takes to show a point of view, an opinion or a political position without being often needed to be here tired of staff. With regard to whether the Tax and Administrative Measures Act is an effective instrument, I have no doubt that the reform of the 21 laws incorporated in this accompanying law is effective. They're effective. We don't know what interests it answers, which is one of the issues I raised in my first intervention. Because I repeat: what does the decree really have to do with limiting megawatts of production in biomass with budgets? What's that got to do with it? What was the emergency? What was the interest? Who motivates these types of liberalisations and the establishment of these free bars? Because, if what is meant is to implement a new model of energy production through biomass, because they bring it here and we discuss it through the ordinary way. You're going to have 41 seats to approve your own plans. What we think is that they want to run through the back door certain measures that hinder them. What were we told in the committee about that rule? That a single megawatt had not been approved since 2008 until today through biomass. And of course, what did I tell them then? Of course, it's just that you've recovered or backed up in the Government of Galicia since 2009. So, if there's not a single biomass megawatt in this country, it's because you've done nothing but suppress now a decree that, I say, all I was looking for is to limit and curb possible speculation through energy crops. Because we know perfectly well in this country what overexploitation of resources without more interest than speculation with them. Let's talk about taxes in rural areas. I repeat the same thing: no one decides to stay in a village or in a rural parish looking at the income statement, but rather the public services to which he has access. I told him by referring to the degree of pediatricians that exist in rural areas. I, when I'm going to think about where I'm going to live, I'm going to put it on the table if I have access to a doctor, if my kids are going to be able to go to a public school, how many miles they're going to have to do and if they exist or not, for example, collective transport networks for a proper mobility. I'm not going to think about whether I'm going to be taxing when I buy a house. So let's say that: the formula for fixing rural populations comes first by ensuring equal access to all public services and then by obtaining performances from our work. What it can't be is that we're producing in rural meat, whatever milk or any fruit and vegetable product, which costs us money, that we don't have access to yields that can allow us to have a decent life. Everyone wants to pay taxes to have access to fundamental services. What we want is to live with the dignity of our work, we live in the Ribeira de Piquin, Coruel or Manzaneda. It's sad, it's very sad! [[Applause]] And sell yourself as a star measure! Actually, we have four years ahead. I know they won't go back. So, a year before the legislation was over, someone brought here a report of how many people lived in the countryside or went live directly to the countryside thanks to those supposed zero taxes. I told him on other occasions: they won't pay the taxes paid directly at the Galician Board, but "the catastrophe" we all pay in the countryside, for the pendants, for the sheds, for the chickens, for the greenhouses, or for the pools that were illegal, which is also true that they came to light with those wonderful photographs of the drones which, I say, did not differentiate a chicken from a barn to keep the wood. [[Applause]] Then, of course, we spent five days without light, especially in the parishes of the countryside, and here comes neither the tattoo nor the explanation. But, yes, we don't pay taxes. Man, a little serious, a little serious! The way to fix population in rural areas is precisely to guarantee a decent quality of life, and these are fundamental services, collective transport and electric light, electric light, which is the basic even to draw water from the wells, as happens in many cases throughout our country. I don't have much time left. I simply amend your vision of dialogue again. They have a vision of the dialogue which is a street of unique meaning. I mean, dialogue here is because we're adjusting to your opinion. And we -- I've already told you on several occasions -- haven't come here to give them soap, we've come to show a different political position and a different political anti-thetic project of the People's Party. We are not going to go along with opinions such as those formulated or those collected in this Law of tax and administrative measures, which, on one side — I have told you before — has nothing to do with budgets and which, on the other hand, is intended only to accommodate certain interests with the reform of 21 standards, up to 21 rules that have nothing to do with the taxation or budgets of this country. We are not going to vote in favour of them nor are we going to propose or formulate our amendments according to the interests of the People's Party. We defend an alternative political project for this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u34	...and that's what we do in the amendments and in our exhibitions. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u35	About the other amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u36	Yes, we will support — as we have done the other times — the amendments that present the rest of the opposition forces. First, by the will of dialogue and by the will of listening to the rest of the forces.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to start where I ended up, and it's in additional fourth position, in the integration of the Advisory Council's body of lawyers. I insist that we understand that this additional provision is only to remove what is annoying from the middle. We call for this provision to be withdrawn, and we also call on this Parliament to cease the President of the Advisory Council by putting the independence of this body on the standstill, causing irreparable damage. [[Applause]] It is investigated by alleged traffic in influence within the framework of the "Condor" operation and has a judgment against the judge for irregularly altering the conditions of officials — they condemn the Advisory Council. Therefore, this provision is only to remove obstacles in the way, so they can find the plain way. Well, by entering the rest of the amendments that we have tabled, in additional provision sixth, in the Galaga Forest Industry Agency — which we also discussed in the Commission — we do not understand the reason why it is to use in this way, in this accompanying law, an additional provision to create an agency. We don't understand the rush, the lack of negotiation and the lack of dialogue, we want to know why and why. It's to give the forest industry an economic and productive approach, not having a rational basis in economic terms for its creation. We maintain that the primary sector is a strategic and fundamental sector for Galicia and, therefore, demand that priority be given and that the environmental sustainability of the rural environment be ensured against this exclusively economic exploitation. We don't understand the forest sector as a raw material just to feed the industry. We also request a new sixth bis provision, because, in the same sense as I explained in chapter I, of the public service, despite what you say they have reached agreements, they have reached the negotiation, I continue to see demonstrations, I continue to see trade unions and trade union representatives continue to present us writings and continue to tell us that they are not collecting themselves and are not guaranteeing their rights. So we in this provision ask for a negotiating table to determine the working hours calendar, the scales that need to be created and the schedule. We also call for the abolition of the first transitional provision, which is reached with the Galician Advisory Council, and in the first derogation provision we request the abolition of this provision which repeals a decree regulating the procedure for the authorisation of electrical power production installations from the energy assessment of the first forest biomass. We don't understand why this is done. It seems to us that it can be opening a door to the establishment of large biomass plants. And finally, we call for the removal of the last third provision, which is also the amendment of the Advisory Council. The truth is that I am curious about your intervention, Mrs. Prado del Río, to tell us that we are not congruent and that we do not vote the same in the rest of the communities, and make a comparison to Valencia. The truth is that God frees us from making that comparison for what I assumed the Government of the People's Party in Valencia, because we understand that the People's Party in Galicia is not the same, and we hope so. So the comparisons aren't very appropriate in this case. [[Applause]] He told me that in article 1, in the few resources, you're talking about the IRPF. But, look, here's all there's to it is will, it's not IRPF. You put on a set of conditions so you can access this kind of deduction. That conditioner under the same conditions you can open it to more families. So that explanation you give me about the IRPF I don't think it's enough for this amendment that we're presenting to you. In the case of article 20, you say we don't approve. It's just that I told you in my speech that this article 20 is a facewash. That's already in the law, there's no need for them to put it there, there's no need at all, that's already covered by the law. So they're not bringing anything new, absolutely nothing. And he also told us, as far as chapter IV was concerned, that it was with an out-of-term presentation. It's true. I'm sorry, yes, I'm referring to Title IV. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] True, I've already thanked him. But, look, you also presented a bug correction and we didn't put any objection, and in that bug correction actually what they were presenting were two new amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u39	Finish, please. And it is pronounced on the amendments of the other groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u40	I'm done. So we, of course, are not going to vote in favour, for everything we have discussed here and for what we have talked about. And, of course, we are going to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the rest of the opposition groups. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u42	I'm going to start by defending Mrs. Prado's right to speak of clans in the Socialist Party, because if she forbids talking about clans in the Socialist Party, she feels a very serious precedent, and we couldn't talk about the Orensan clan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u43	I say the clan because "clan" comes from a very family [...] and it wasn't exactly the conception at that time. Not everything comes from the trunk of the same family, because in that case I know Mrs. Blanco, so I told her it wasn't exactly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u44	You know the trunks of the families of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u45	"Clan" is that it comes from a single trunk of a family, from a source. In this case, as it wasn't accurate, because I know the case, I don't think it was accurate. It doesn't matter, it's a dyke.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u46	Okay, okay. The president, who doesn't know if it's the Orensan clan or not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u47	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u48	...will you be correcting the inaccuracies of those who speak?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u49	No, it's just a joke.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u50	Ah, but in the Rules of Procedure I don't see anywhere that you can correct the inaccuracies of who you're talking about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u51	I gave an opinion, I didn't correct anything. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u52	But of course, Mrs. Prado then said, "It's just that we have to stand by and talk about corruption." I defend your right to speak of clans and please defend mine to speak of corruption. Because making opposition to the People's Party without saying "corruption" is a little difficult, isn't it? [[Applause]] I am never going to discuss the legality of the Law of tax and administrative measures, Mrs Prado. Answer what I'm telling you. I'm quoting your sentence. You said it wasn't the best legislative technique, and I asked you why you didn't use the best legislative technique. Because you're saying, "It's because they have suppression amendments..." No, you present a law for the abolition of debate. We do what we do with the amendments to suppression in transcendental issues — which are not all, in transcendental issues that we believe should not go into a law of accompaniment because it steals the debate — are we saying that, if you want to significantly modify the law of the ground, you have to make an ordinary procedure, you have to debate that amendment with reports, with enough time and talk about that with people who understand that. That's what we're saying. If the Mountain Law is changed, if it is going to sink further into the model that causes impoverishment and depopulation of rural areas — what we will then talk about — because I believe that we have to debate it with an ordinary legislative process to give rise to a more productive, participatory and better debate. And you, on the other hand, want to hide it, you want to hide it, because you can't sell it outside. It's just that you're betting on a forest model that only benefits the Ence. You were talking about zero taxes in the countryside. Yesterday Mr. Tellado spoke of the biggest tax discount in history. What I know, here is a single tax discount measure, which is that, called "zero taxes in rural areas," or for housing purchase, which has in the economic and financial report a quantification by the People's Party of 2.4 million euros. The transcendence of this measure is 2.4 million euros of 10 billion euros of budget. And that's the big star measure to curb rural depopulation. How about the policies that have so far been implemented against rural depopulation, were you all right, Mrs. Prado? You, with your policies, have you curbed rural depopulation? Because we've already taken several legislations where Mr. Feijóo starts by saying that it's going to be the rural legislation, that the first thing he's going to do is talk to the dairy sector. We're seeing that the data doesn't give him the reason, the data doesn't give him the reason. More and more people come out of the countryside to live where they can have services they should have in the countryside. If they want to set up rural population, they stop cutting services. They start making comprehensive policies so that people can live in rural areas. They cease to exterminate productive sectors. Make policies for other productive sectors to emerge and explore other types of primary activities. They make laws thinking as a whole, and not as in this law, that they change the industrial farms to eliminate in 27,000 nuclei the minimum distances that the State demands for health issues. And then, of course, if you put pig industries in a law and then, on the other hand, somebody's going to sell that rural tourism needs to be promoted, because they barely get married, right? And so we want to foster rural tourism, but then we click on a pig industry farm that's stuck to the houses. Because in this law, also in article 60, you get to cover that up. In the nuclei that do not reach 100 inhabitants, we will not have to respect the distances contained in the basic legislation. And what does that mean? Those who don't reach 100 inhabitants are 27,000 nuclei. Of course, and you're talking about a measure that is 2.4 million euros, which, as has already been said here, compared with what the IBI went up with... the collection of the IBI in this country since Mr Feijó's rule: 200 million euros, 50% of the increase in the IBI in this country. And then you say you don't raise taxes. Of course, they don't belong to who, it depends on whom they don't get; most of them did, at rates, etc., in everything that affects people. Then you will explain to me things that have not been clear during the proceedings of this law. Because if I didn't talk about more things, it's because you haven't given me any more time. The president doesn't apply much flexibility and I have to choose what things I say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u53	That's what I needed to hear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u54	But it was not clear to me why you have never answered the fundamental questions that I raised to you from the Land Law. He didn't answer me because the plans, the cancelled plans — any plan: partial, general plan, of interim urban planning — of any council, made to measure... by the way, you know the subconscious from time to time, and you said the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u55	It's over now, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u56	...he approved this and had this agreement because he thought it benefited Abel Caballero. And, of course, you do this because you think it benefits Jesus Vázquez, that's his conception.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u57	It's over. Finish. About the other amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u58	Yes, on the amendments, Mr President. We will support the amendments of the other opposition groups and oppose this democratic robbery which the People's Party intends to commit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u59	Thank you. There's no robbery. That's retired. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, today read a newspaper from the south of Galicia in what there is a headline saying: "Galice leads the rise of tax collection among the great heritage." Do you know why Galicia is the most important autonomous community in heritage? Because he recorded the rich in times of crisis. [[Applause]] Mr. Sánchez, when a party has no ideas or alternative proposals, it goes to insults, to personal issues, to criticize corruption. But, look, that's not original anymore. It would be original if you, in the face of political criticism, responded with political arguments and with proposals to solve people's problems. Because you're more concerned about solving your internal problems than solving the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. Look, Mrs. Rodríguez, if you don't like us talking about Valencia, because we're talking about Cantabria, we're talking about Aragon, we're talking about Generalitat, all with accompanying laws that modify 15, 20 or 30 laws. Mrs. Rodríguez, Mr. Abel Caballero, president of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and mayor of the largest city Galicia is being investigated. If you ask here today for the cessation of the people investigated, I also ask for Mr. Abel Caballero. Because what you can't do is ask for each other and not for others. [[Applause]] Look, to finish this chapter of corruption that concerns you so much, Mr. Sánchez, you have your partner, Mr. Villares. I recommend that you read the interviews your partner does in the press, because maybe he'll illustrate you a little bit about some questions. Or December 16, 2016: "Villares believes that saving would not prevent the judge from continuing to investigate. It has considered that the saving, this figure, is a procedural guarantee rather than a privilege." I wonder, Mr. Sánchez: What benefits did the entrepreneurs who gave Vega Sicilia and Moët & Chandon to Mrs. Yolanda Díaz? That hasn't been explained yet, Mr. Sanchez. And also one day they'll explain about birthday parties that so many headaches and headaches can be giving them, like in the Town Hall of Santiago, where they also have their corruption corral. Don't worry, in the Town Hall of Santiago they already have their own corruption corral. Look, about the counsellors of the Advisory Council, what they're so worried about, what the law does is to extend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u61	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u62	...the relief of human resources, since they will be able to count not only on a small body of seven lawyers enrolled in the Advisory, but also on any lawyer from the Legal Counsel of the Council of Galicia. Mrs. Rodil said this was illegal. Mrs Rodil, I trust very much in the opinion of the lawyers of the Galician Parliament, and I am sure that, if we were approving something illegal or unconstitutional, they would have warned us of this. Just like I would have warned you about the legal report of counseling on this law. The current law already envisages the possibility that one third of the squares would be occupied by lawyers from the Union. They've always been at the RPT of the Advisory Council as LD, it's nothing new. And it seems to be a lawyer from the Galician Council for opposition — and a rather harsh opposition, by the way — is a demerit for this organ. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Vilan, I see you're willing to talk, look... yes, no, no, you're allowed to speak in your group, and then we're discussing it. [[Murmurs.]] Look, out of the seven lawyers who have the Advisory Council's body, four are in service commission, four. Do you know what they're feeding those four? With lyrics from the Galician Union. So they're already committing an irregularity right now. Of course, then, what has to be autonomous and independent is the body of the Advisory Council. You can't question here the independence of the Council of Galicia lawyers. It's an absolute mistake, it's an absolute barbarity. Because, look, the independence of the organ is absolutely guaranteed. We are faced with a human resources reorganization, and we cannot underestimate the ability and professionalism of an entire body of lawyers and lawyers to defend another body. Mrs. Rodil, look, rural is fundamental in Galicia. And you shouldn't use rural life as a political daring weapon. They've already used equality, and now they've noticed and they're trying to change their way of acting on the subject of equality. They'll change on the rural subject. Look, the drop in taxes and zero taxes in rural areas is a good measure. In the last year 2016 there were 8,000 transactions exempt from non-rural taxes. I don't have time to talk about everything, but in terms of housing, Mr. Sánchez, you're going to explain there to San Paio de Navia why they present a suppression amendment to prevent IGVS-acquired residents from being incompatible with the new management. Because now what is meant by this law is that these people can access a house in the same place. The same thing they asked for in the Coruña office. Do you remember, Mr. Sánchez? Well, that's what we're collecting now in law. And you're trying to suppress it, with the complicity of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. I hope they'll explain it to them there to San Paio de Navia. It's over, Mr. President. Today we pass a law that will improve the professional conditions of nearly 4,000 employees and public employees, giving stability and better working conditions. We improve services in rural areas, such as mobility, and with tax reduction we also favour settlement. We are improving forest policy by solving the problems of many people who have plantations in rural areas, and we also want to boost the biomass sector, which will promote job creation. We give more opportunities, in the aquaculture sector, to drummers and experimental farms. In social services, we favor the creation of the single electronic social file, with a clear impact on the attention of the people who need it most. And with the law we favor investment in R & D+i, more innovation and more knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, and to facilitate job creation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u63	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u64	To make Galicia more prosperous and more competitive, and the Law of Measures sets the means to conquer these goals. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u66	We are voting on the Ditami Bill issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the draft law on tax, administrative and management measures. We started by voting on amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 and 3 to 56 of the G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the Bill of Tax, Administrative and Management Measures, not incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote of Amendments Nos 1 to 11, 13 to 22 and 24 to 37 G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the Bill of Tax, Administrative and Management Measures, not incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Amendment Nos 1 to 31 and 33 to 37 G.P. from Marea to the draft law on tax, administrative and management measures, not incorporated into the Commission's mandate. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u67	Finally, we are voting on the Commission's opinion with the amendments incorporated, if any, which it is not in this case. Voting of the Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economic, Business and Budgets on the draft law on tax, administrative and management measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u68	We move on to item 2 of the agenda, which corresponds to attendances in plenary. Comparability of Mr. Environment and Territory Planning Adviser, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u69	The Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u70	Good morning. I appear before this House, on my own request, to explain the main strategic lines that this councillor, the Territorial Environment and Planning Council, will take forward in the next four years. What I'm going to expose today is just a demonstration of the great commitment we have from the Galician Union to the policies of the environment and land management. I'm honest, I don't think I'm going to have enough time to expose everything we want from here to 2020. This period in which we find ourselves immersed, and which has as its horizon the year 2020, we perceive it as the legislating which is decidedly betting by nature, by green and by blue; ultimately, so it defines Galicia, by natural and unique Galicia. As you know, we find ourselves in a moment that we consider historical as to what it has to do with the consciousness of citizenship, which is growing every day. And, of course, we must and we want to take advantage of it. We can't stay motionless for this opportunity that will open up to us. It is a time when Galicia must take a step forward in order to become an environmental and sustainable referent within the European Union. Galicia can't even stay behind. The objective of our policies over the next four years is precisely that Galicia does not remain behind, that it is converging with the most advanced European regions in this area, in the field of the environment, and that in the coming years we can also place ourselves as leaders of these measures. We have done a lot in recent years in the field of environmental protection, in responsible management of the territory. But we believe that we must continue to move forward, and that is why we are marked by ambitious challenges that we place as the main axes of this action that we will carry forward by 2020, which are the cornerstones on which we will refuse and on which we will turn the policies that we will lead from this council, which are the following: the value of Galicia's natural heritage, the fight against climate change, the shift towards the circular economy, reaching the 100 percent of our waters of good quality — with particular attention to the comprehensive sanitation of our community's rivers — and an appreciation of our rivers, and finally, the bet on the landscape and the sustainable management of the territory. During this appearance I will expose the main news, measures and resources that the Council is going to design, launch and execute throughout this legislation in each and every one of the areas I have just cited. We started this legislation with a new and exciting challenge, which is to move further, to fit, to protect, preserve and disseminate our natural heritage. So, we've marked our roadmap for the next four years, which has a firm commitment, which is to protect and enhance the values that represent the natural heritage of the community. That's why it's already a reality that today in our community there is a network of natural parks, a measure that was at its early stage and that aims to take advantage of the synergies of these six natural spaces. From now on we will sink into its consolidation. We are fully aware of the enormous tourist, social and economic potential that has our natural heritage, and that is why we want to take advantage of all these uses and potentialities. Galicia has a natural heritage that is not sufficiently well thought-out, so we work to solve this situation and make the most of this wealth without losing an apex of the values of our heritage. With this objective, we have recently, in January, in particular, presented a plan to promote and place in value the natural heritage of Galicia, and set it up at the most important international tourism fair, which is Fitur. It's about the first plan of this guy that's going to take place in our autonomy, and it's going to cover performances here for the next four years. There will be 29 of the specific actions we will develop, with a budget of EUR 4 million. Suppose, in addition, Galicia's presentation under a new brand: "Galicia, natural and unique." And it's held in a basic pier, which is the identification of the 17 imam spaces in our community, which are the ones most recognized by the Greeks and also by the tourists. In particular these 17 imam spaces are: the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, the beach of the Cathedrals as a natural monument, three of the spaces of the Natura Network — in particular, Carnota, Monte Pindo, Ribeira Sacra, Canons of Sil and even The Courel — the six reserves of the biosphere that we have in our community and our six natural parks. This plan carries new measures, such as the design of tourist packages specific to these spaces, or also how it can be the launch of a natural passport — something similar to the Compostela — so that our parks invite visitors to know the remaining natural spaces. On the other hand, our firm commitment to natural heritage includes the updating of the law governing protection and which has been obsolete for sixteen years. We've taken the first step. It was last week, at the last board of assembly, when green light was given to the Preliminary draft natural heritage law of Galicia. What we want with this law, with this new law, is to carry out a cross-sectional protection of the natural heritage of Galicia, and also of its biodiversity. Among the main innovations we have introduced, it highlights the creation, for example, of a new figure, which is the "natural microreserva", and the launch of the habitat catalogue in danger of disappearance. The forecast we handle is that in the next session we can forward this new text to this House for its processing and subsequent approval. During this new legislation we will also continue with a strong and determined bet by the Natura 2000 Network, for its expansion, in order to complete the system of protected areas of our community. Galicia currently envisages 12% of its territory as a territory of Nature Network. With this measure, we will support compliance with Community obligations with the socio-economic activities of the areas covered by the Natura 2000 Network, and this will place Galicia in the middle of the Atlantic regions, where the percentage of the Natura Network area is currently around 15%. Our goal is to take a step forward in expanding these protected spaces, preserving and improving the state of conservation of habitats and species of community interest. In this line of action, we will also focus on something that has never been done before: the development of the management and use plans of all parks, specifically of the six natural parks and even of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands. This legislation — as we have done with the natural parks — also wants to make a new bet and create, in fact, the Galician Biosphere Reserve Network. The creation of this network will facilitate joint meetings and actions of the six biosphere reserves that today have our community, with the objective of obviously exchanging experiences and knowledge. The draft decree that this network will be created at the moment is found in its final processing phase, so we plan to approve it in the first quarter of this year. But in addition, we will take the initiative to reach the UNESCO declaration of the reservation of the biosphere of another new reservation in our community that we want it to be and we are pushing: the Sacred Ribeira. In the next four years, we will also focus our efforts on fighting animal abuse and animal abandonment. We've been working on this text for a year now, in the text of the law, a document that has already been presented, debated with all the community's animal associations and even state. So in that same month, the animal welfare and protection law will be passed as a bill by the board of directors. We will then forward it to this House, with the aim of starting its parliamentary process and being approved, and, once Parliament's good visa is received, we will also proceed — important — to develop the regulation which develops it and which will be ready within a maximum of one year. It's from our point of view an ambitious law and a law that seeks to respond to social sensibilities in animal protection. Among its main objectives is to advance towards zero sacrifice, through the promotion of adoption of abandoned animals, housed in shelters, promoting their responsible tendency; to fight against animal abandonment, as we want Galicia to be a community free of abandonment; and to fight against all kinds of ill-treatment. The rule will be one more step in our commitment to the protection of animals and will be accompanied by measures that will complete and will also reinforce this law, such as, for example, the establishment of an animal sterilization campaign to reduce the number of animals abandoned by means of reproductive control of the populations, or even a line of assistance — the first line of assistance — to promote actions for the protection and well-being of these pets by the municipalities, i.e. for the municipalities and for the protection associations. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, another of the great challenges facing our society as a whole — not only alone and exclusively Galicia — is the fight against climate change. We're in front of the first generation that's palpating the consequences of climate change in the first person, but we're also in front of a generation that will be the last one to have the chance to do something about it. I am convinced that it is not something that should concern only the departments responsible for environmental policies, but it has to be a priority for all, because the future depends on everything we can do today and on the front we can do today. The summit of climate in Paris last year made it clear that we cannot lose one more minute, that we have to fight climate change with all the tools we have among all of us at our disposal, and it was also the summit of Marrakech — recently celebrated — which, as a final conclusion, pushed the fight against climate change by saying and finding that it was unstoppable and irreversible. Practically all the countries in the world agree, and Galicia, of course, can't even stay behind. We must put aside political colors in this debate, we need to compromise in this struggle all political groups and all administrations, and in that covenant I will work and work hard, and in particular we must be able to include companies and private entities and the whole of society and that each of the citizens should bear in mind that every small effort counts. We must continue to raise awareness and raise awareness of society, not only of the dangers of climate change, but of the opportunities offered by the struggle against it. Our Council has made climate change an essential axis for the present but also for the future. The test of this is the recent creation of a general direction, called Environmental Quality and Climate Change, which will focus its efforts on this matter. And so, the first thing is that this same year 2017 from that general direction will create the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050, in which we will set the main lines of action in the fight against climate change. It will be a roadmap that will incorporate, as it cannot be otherwise, the consideration of climate change in territorial management and will lead to the development of a climate change knowledge map. This map will allow you to identify all the agents involved in this struggle and even – the most important – define the lines of action for observation, mitigation and adaptation to this phenomenon. All this work, in which all the agents involved will participate, will enable our community to contribute in a coordinated, realistic and efficient way to combat the causes that fuel climate change. The development of this important strategy will allow us to set those lines of action that we must lead in the long term, but also those that we must face – whether or not – in the near future. We are ambitious with this strategy and we want to make our community a reference at European level. In addition, we also have to mark another important roadmap from this council, which is the Galician strategy of sustainability and circular economy, focused on creating an efficient economy, a sustainable economy, low carbon emissions. This novice strategy will be based mainly on a circular economy scheme focused on consumption that covers the life cycle of all products. Our goal is to promote an informed consumption, but also to be responsible. In addition, the strategy will include measures to improve business environment, paying special attention to pemes. These actions highlight the promotion of technologies and methods of ecodesign. We will begin to develop the Galician strategy of sustainability and circular economy in the same year 2017, and it will be a document that will be in effect for the next eight years. In this context of fighting and taking measures against climate change, from the Council we will implement a tool that will allow us to calculate Galicia's ecological footprint and which has never been calculated until now. We believe that ecological footprint is the most appropriate indicator to assess the efficiency and effectiveness of actions derived from environmental policies that develop in our community. This tool will also allow us to measure the impact of climate change on the Greek ecosystems, evaluate the effectiveness of these measures that are being taken and that are going to be taken to combat this phenomenon and develop simulation models of possible scenarios of climate change evolution. And finally, in this fight against climate change that we put in place, we also have to equip ourselves with the best tools to help us deal with it in the best way possible. And what better than using more efficiently all the means we have from the Autonomic Administration? And that's why we want to create the Galician Environmental Technology Centre, which will be a result of the combination of two organisms, for us essential, which are committed decisively to research and innovation, as is Meteogalicia and also the Galician Environment Laboratory. Together, the two structures will create a union that can be a reference in the field of meteorological research and even in the field of the environment. The launch of this pioneer centre will allow you to implement an integrated and efficient management model, sharing data and information, improving your synergies and increasing your research and innovation activity. But in this scenario of commitment and fight against climate change, an essential part to be realized is also a firm bet on modern and efficient waste management. We must continue to move not only on the four traditional paths — on reduction, on re-use, on recycling and on recovery — but on another multi-erge concept that must include: rethinking, redesigning, rebuilding, repairing, redistributing, etc. The circular economy is today the only option in the future, based on the premise of converting waste into resources and will allow efficiency and efficiency to become the key to the use of resources, as one of the seven flagship initiatives of the Europe 2020 Strategy. In Galicia we have taken important steps to get closer to the circular economy and we will follow them by 2020. And for that we will update the Norwegian Environmental Standard on environmental assessment and waste, and we will also develop a plan, which is already approved, which is the 2016-2022 Industrial Waste Plan, which has 19 million euros and 108 measures. At this point, I cannot and do not want to forget the management of urban waste in Galicia, where we have an international reference. And I'm talking to them again, ladies and gentlemen, about Sogama, who are voluntarily attached to 94% of the municipalities in our community and who represent a model of a solvency, efficient and sustainable public enterprise, and also a model of continuous improvement process. Good proof of that is the expansion that is being carried forward now — the expansion of the plant — where 29 million euros will be allocated to enable them to increase their capacity by 81%. In this way, Sogama will be able to treat optimally all household waste produced in our community, everything. Even so, it will multiply by four its contribution to recycling, reaching 12% of material recycling recommended by the European Union, at the same time that it will largely decrease the landfill, seeking to reach the technical dump called zero. This improvement will enable Sogama to consolidate its leadership in Spain and become one of the largest and most efficient plants in Europe and also the cheapest. Furthermore, compatible with this technology, an investment will be made to launch the industrial composting plant in Areosa, where 15,000 tonnes of industrial processing will be processed annually from large producers such as markets, schools, shopping centers, hospitals... this facility will allow you to obtain between 3,000 and 4,000 tons of good quality compost every year and meet the requirements for that compound to be finally used in unrestricted agriculture. It is planned that the expansion of this Sogama plant will begin in June and extend until December 2018, so that the performance will be a reality in 2019. By its band, the composting plant will come into operation this same year. Another of the essential objectives that are absolutely priority for this legislation is the completion of the plan for the sanitation of the Welsh rivers. Even the President of the Board, at the investment session, made clear our commitment to this matter, and so I will reiterate it myself in the appearance of budgets of this board. Over the next four years, we will complete the integral sanitation of the rivers. Thus, at the 2020 horizon, all planning for sanitation will be completed depending on the Galician Union and all infrastructures will be either run or in service. As you can imagine, fulfilling this commitment requires an important budgetary effort, which our Council will continue to deal with year by year. Not only for this year will we forget the increase we've made in the waters of Galicia last year, when their budget grew by 16.7%, but we assume it again, and again exceeds 100 million euros. Almost half of this budget, a total of 46.7 million euros, will be destined for the planning and execution of new hydraulic infrastructures. And until the end of the legislation in total, we will allocate 131 million, of the 655 that make up the Galician demarcation hydrological plan, to clean our rivers and to meet that goal announced by the President of the Union. I will highlight the main investments in sanitation in our rivers that will take place in the next four years. It will be the Pontevedra River, where we will invest 47.3 million euros; in Arousa, where we will run nearly 23 million euros; in Ferrol, where we will invest 7.2 million euros; in the Burgo River, where we are already bid 6 million euros, which end the commitment of the Government of Galicia to that river; in Ares-Betanzos, where we will invest 12.7 million euros; in Vigo, where we will run about 6 million euros; or in Foz, where we will invest 8 million euros. I highlighted the most prominent laughter. In the next legislation we will continue to promote something important, which is the local water pact, in order to have a homogeneous system for the water infrastructures of Galicia. This will be achieved through two axes of action. The empowerment of the local pact, a forum in which we participate in the administrations that we have powers in water, and in which the strategic lines for its management are consensual, because we want to give this pact a definitive boost. And for that, I will propose to the President of the Fegamp and to the Members of Parliament the signings of an agreement. The aim is to reach consensus among all the criteria for the financial and technical collaboration of the Union for the development of municipal competences in the field of sanitation and supply. It is also intended to lay the groundwork for a cost recovery policy that is homogeneous throughout the autonomous community, as indicated by the Community directive and as required by the use of European funds in these infrastructures. The second is the implementation of a technology system that improves efficiency, efficiency in the management of these hydraulic infrastructures, a system that will allow more energy-efficient management and sustainable maintenance of these installations and a model using the eco-innovation bet. In these four years, we will also push something that from our point of view is not sufficiently well thought-out today, which is the value of our rivers. This goal will be achieved through two main axes of action. Thus, if Galicia is the community of the thousand rivers — as Cunqueiro said — we consider it well worth having a department dedicated exclusively to them. And, therefore, we will create the Rios Observatory, of a permanent nature, whose function will be to guide the policies and actions we carry out from the different administrations in relation to the rivers. In addition, it will allow the assessment of environmental and ecosystem aspects of these measures and the social value of these natural spaces. We are currently drafting a draft decree for this instrument to be created, and in this observatory there will be different administrations of the Galician Union, hydrographic confederations, representatives of civil society, such as ecological associations, Galaga Fisheries Federation or even representatives of the academic field, such as universities and research centres. Secondly, and starting from the work done for the drafting of the hydrological plan, we will draw up a framework plan for action for the management of all river basins, in which we will try to reconcile the sustainable use of these resources and the respect and conservation of nature. This plan will be drafted under the direct supervision of this observatory and will facilitate the implementation of regional policies developed through it. This will allow us to perform a comprehensive and comprehensive action on our rivers, to protect their banks, their tails and their species as well. In the next four years, we will also continue to work everywhere to advance in the protection and position of our landscape. We must bear in mind that the quality of the landscape is an excellent indicator of the degree of development of our society. Their good management and management are a factor to be taken into account for the competitiveness of a territory. That is, an orderly and quality landscape directly affects a community from an economic, tourist, environmental, cultural and social point of view. Because after all, this is something that defines us all. In this issue, and in the face of this new legislation, we are already working on what will be Galicia's first green infrastructure strategy. Its goal is to create a network of natural and semi-natural spaces, strategically planned to offer a wide range of ecosystem services. The strategy will be multifunctional and cross-sectional, integrating numerous sectoral and territorial policies, and I am talking about agriculture, energy, climate change, biodiversity, urbanism, mobility, landscape. The first step towards its development will be the launch of a green infrastructure system in the metropolitan area of Coruña, which will allow the urban and peri-urban system to evolve towards higher levels of sustainability. This area brings together the right conditions to cover a wide variety of habitats; I speak of coastal, river, urban, forests, protected natural spaces, biosphere reserve, cultural heritage, which live with a high density of population and a remarkable economic development. All this bet on the landscape has to go together, no doubt, to responsible urbanism. And, in fact, one of the most important spaces in our council since 2009 is precisely focused on the development of a new model of regulatory framework for urbanism, a model that had its starting point in the early 2016 adoption of the Galician Land Law, but also on the adoption of what would be the first regulation to develop a Land Law in our community, and that in just six months, this government was able to adopt a regulation of the Land Law. A work that also included several features that I want to highlight, as was the approval in 2011 of the Land Management Guidelines; as was the approval of the Coastal Management Plan, which establishes a new model of urbanism in coastal areas; or even as is the advanced development in which the landscape atlas is already found, with its catalogue and its guidelines, or even the color and material guide that we are developing from the College of Architects of Galicia. And once we have carried out the new comprehensive urban regulation with the Land Law, which we approved last year, and with its regulation, we must renew — and we will work from now on — the land management legislation, which has obsolete twenty years of vigilance. This is one of our main challenges to this legislation, and its processing, as it said, will begin this year. In addition, over the next four years we will continue this work in urban development with other key measures, such as the adoption of basic standards, such as the Autonomic Basic Plan, which will be approved at the end of this year; we will develop the municipal basic plans, a figure which is intended directly to the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants who do not have general planning and who will voluntarily request this figure; we will also draft the planning technical standards, which will allow them to unify technical criteria so that it is easier to develop the PXOMs, cartography and also general urban concepts. And these standards will be a practical tool in manual mode or planning style book and signaling code for the municipalities. And in these four years, we will also draw up integrated territorial plans, which will be a basic tool for land management at a supra-municipal level. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have been working hard since June to consolidate our community as a reference to awareness and respect for the environment. And that will continue to be our main challenge for the next four years. I am fully aware that in order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to count on the involvement of the entire Greek society, of all the groups that make up this Parliament, of all administrations, of social agents, of the private initiative in general. In fact, last December, in my appearance on the occasion of the 2017 budget presentation, I already launched the glove for the political groups – – and I remind you again – – and I moved my firm commitment to work towards an environmental pact. Today I reiterate once again that commitment: to seek consensus, because it is a matter that we understand of vital importance to all. I know that every day the involvement of the Greeks and the Greeks with the environment is greater. All of us who live in Galicia know the natural wealth of our land, our landscapes, our rivers and rivers, our air, our skys; we know all of this. Along with our culture, it's, if it fits, what defines us as Welsh, what distinguishes us and what makes us unique. Protecting, preserving and valuing that wealth is a challenge that we must face and overcome successfully. As I told you at the beginning of my speech, we find ourselves at a key moment to achieve a real and global level of sustainable development, a development that allows the use of resources, the quality and the well-being of current generations, but at the same time that does not put them at risk and that guarantees their enjoyment for future generations. It is time to accept and, above all, it is time to overcome that challenge, to be up to what is asked of all of us, and I assure you that Galicia will be up to it. Thank you very much, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u71	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u72	Thank you very much and very good day. That's from the end that Galicia is going to be up to date, it sounds a little weird, and also this whole flap, this long list of plans and strategies that we've launched here today, which, in any case, proves that you've ruled for eight years and still have many duties to fulfill. Well, actually, what you're using here is a series of slogans, formulas, expressions, which I suppose will give you in your office, that it looks nice to talk about natural and unique, green, blue, circular economy, sustainability, landscape... well, all that sounds good, but under that camouflage, under that makeup, of that decorated, because there's reality. The reality, for the BNG, reality is what it shows, I think your intervention has also shown it, because if you put a lot of homework, I mean you didn't do it, it's a narrow failure of environmental policy and land management. You said you wanted to take a step forward to become nothing but leaders, world references in this field. What we see is that they're constantly taking steps back. Of course, in the slogans and in these formulas, apparently pretty, right, this green and blue economy can sound good, but, in fact, what we have is a better brown reality, right, the brown reality of the spills that go to our laughs every day. Something smells like rot in the Environmental Council. And you, you talk, you talk about sustainability and a low-carbon economy, you talk about circular economy, and I wonder what that is about the circular economy. [[Applause]] You talked here about circular economy, but I don't know if it's also going to be a circular economy that they practice with Fernández de Mesa, that of the spin doors, that of circulating from the administration to the private company and charging large wages of 150,000 euros for practicing the circular economy of the spin gates; all of this, of course, is very legal, but it's very indecent. And you're talking about climate change, and a Welsh strategy on climate change and energy 2050 -- quite far away -- and instead they have real climate change factors, which we'll talk about later, like Sogama. It's an absolutely cheating speech, they say one thing and they do the opposite completely. Well, I want to do here is a description of the reality we have in the country, in view of that deceptive speech you made. What we have is two big black holes, two big black wells, which are genuine dregs of public money, which are the rhymes, the water of the rivers, and which are the wastes, Sogama; these are two big black holes; we'll talk after that. They also have a great mess: that of the landscape. You talked about the natural heritage, about the tourist potential of the landscape, which has the green, which has the nature, and that remains very beautiful, but the reality, for example, what the Plan Director of Tourism — his own Director Plan — is that the great threat to tourism, one of the great threats to it is precisely the deterioration of landscape and heritage; the deterioration of landscape and heritage, for example, in the case of landscape, with the greatest aggression that has been committed in this country in recent decades, which is what has been done with the mountain with the process of eucalyptization; that is also to go to climate change. You've made a forest policy and now they're still going to be potential and encouraging it in favor of the energy monopoly and pastry, they're going to give our mountain a definitive blow with that free bar to biomass, which they've just approved and which will promote the proliferation of energy crops. How do you want to look after the landscape? How do you want to have a landscape that's a mirror out there? How do you want to promote our landscape with these performances? And then, thirdly, a great legal chapuza, which is the law of the ground. You talked here about the regulation you passed in six months, but what we saw is that, in record time of less than a year, you've already changed this law three times. If they apply well, that is why — I suppose — the circular economy is using urban and environmental legislation to promote private interests. They've already done so with the Law of Back, with integrated environmental authorizations. They tried Ence. By the way, they won't, with Ence they won't, because we won't let them make that change of law, we won't let them. The subject is still open and we are going to fight from then on. Now they're also doing it with Elnosa, with secret meetings to allow Elnosa's continuity in the Pontevedra stream as well. That's how you take care of your laughs, that's how you take care of your laughs, that's your blue economy. I think what they really have to apply is to develop the legislation on urbanism and land management, such as the Land Management Guidelines, to all integrated territorial plans, because you talked about it again, but these instruments have been approved for five years, almost five years, and still haven't developed this regulation. They were talking about two big black wells, two dregs of money, which were our laughs and the subject of garbage, by the way, that have consumed hundreds of millions of euros and the situation of the rivers we see is what it is. You've said at some show that they've invested a billion euros. How much? Six hundred million euros. Well, because six hundred million euros have been invested in these eight years and the laughs are in the critical situation that they are, of course, very bad managers, because their efficiency is certainly not good. Because we're actually seeing the data that have a drop of employment, a drop of productivity, a drop of 93% of Berberecho production, 28% of plum production, a loss of 41% of jobs, a threat of sanctions from the European Union by the state of the Burgo River, the state of the Arousa River, Pontevedra River, Vigo Debugger, etc., etc. But the worst thing is that we don't have that Damocles sword of European sanctions, the problem is people who live in laughter and can't work for the situation they're in. So we're asking you for a comprehensive stream regeneration policy that involves all the administrations and departments of the Union, that stop acting as stagnant compartments. And I'm going to tell you about the other big plant of climate change which is Sogama, which you assume is the best system in the world and is really a system that is proven to be obsolete, that is from the past, that is exhausted, that it is expensive, that it has great economic costs, but above all great environmental and social costs, that is inefficient, that is highly polluting, that is a producer of CO2, therefore climate change, and that only favours that circular economy of incineration: Natural Gas puts gas to get waste and Fenosa benefits from its incineration. That's your circular economy, which also violates the Union's own waste plan, violates the state waste framework plan, violates the European waste directive, which clearly sets a hierarchy that goes through prevention, first, reuse later, recycling in third place, other forms of recovery in fourth place, where energy recovery is included, i.e. burning, incineration, and finally disposal in the dump. So you're applying the fourth and fifth option. And that will not enable us to meet the target of recycling by 50% by 2020. You guys are running away. You just said they're investing 32 million in plant expansion. Well, I'll really tell you how much they invest. You have just signed a macro contract to expand the Cerceda plant by 332 million euros, in fifteen years, 332 million euros, and another macro contract for transport by 158 million euros; therefore, nearly 500 million euros in the next fifteen years to feed that inefficient and polluting monster that is Sogama and to prevent what is in the waste plan itself, which is the separation from organic matter, which is 42% of waste, that you spend throughout the country and then burn it in Sogama. Really, is it efficiency – – for you, that they demand so much efficiency in the use of resources and spending – to make contracts of nearly 500 million euros to continue with that mistake that is Sogama? We certainly have an alternative; in the second round of the intervention we will make our proposals for an integral strategy for sustainability and climate change, but we are setting an example that we have an alternative. We also offer you the government experience we have to carry out an alternative, a complementary system to Sogama, based on recycling, domestic recycling, people's commitment, community recycling, people's commitment. That is to reduce economic costs, but above all social costs and environmental costs, and to the territorial composting plants that you also have included, by the way, in your waste plan and which do not apply. There's an experience that's working, which is that of the Deputy of Pontevedra, which we offer as an agreement to make a new plan across the country. So what we ask of you is that less plans, less strategies, less documents and more duties to do now. They get to work and, above all, the most important thing is that they turn the Councillor's office into a first-rate councillor, not as it is now, a minor advisor's office, a secondary counsellor's office...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u73	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u74	...with no political initiative and with no effectiveness, as I set an example in a number of investments that do not produce results. So we offer them our proposals, the possibility of reaching agreements, but also under conditions, because we have alternative proposals that we believe should be carried out so that this really is – – as I say – central to government action and is an essential part of the country's development and modernization project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u75	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u76	Thank you, President, good morning. Good morning, Counselor. You went up here asking for more time to talk about the environment and the truth is it's funny when you just voted in favour of the Law on Measures, which removes all competition on the forest area; so you passed the Forest Industrials Agency in front of you from the Rural Middle Council to the Economic and Industry Council; you voted in favour of that passage from one place to another without telling yourself anything at all. This, together with the fact that you have no jurisdiction over the Marine Pollution Plan for accident reasons, because you know – – you told me – that you were in the Sea Council, that your budget is absolutely shallow and that you have executed in September 2016, not even 45% of the 2016 budget, advisor, with all due respect and with all my affection, will move from the Environmental Counsellor to a fourth or fourth environmental adviser, as still doing merits in this Parliament. The truth is that you come here to give us a headline, which is the holder of a new Natural Heritage Act, but one year ago, on January 26, you were here, newly appointed Environmental Counsellor and Territory Planning, perhaps because Ence had just received his 60 years of gift so that you could continue in Lourizan, when you came here on January 26th, you put as the holder for the media a new Animal Protection Act. It's been over a year and we're still waiting for this new Animal Protection Act. It might be, perhaps, advisor, that this new Natural Heritage Act, which the president announced the other day as the holder and you today announce as the holder, you have to wait another year to be able to enter this House someday, especially because, for example, you say that you are going to develop a catalogue of habitats in danger of disappearance, a list of wild species in special protection regimes, but we have been taking since 2008 without a wolf management plan, knowing, in addition, that wolf orders have still been identified last year, in 2016. We've been carrying all past legislation asking for a new wolf management plan, they don't, but, yes, they're going to make a catalogue of habitats in danger of disappearance and a list of wild species in special protection regimes. You may become the room councillor, but the truth is, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we're going to ask for a prize from you and Mrs. Paula Prado at two; they give you a prize, a chair with a letter at the Royal Galaga Academy, for their euphemisms. You've used so many words that sound so good, since Galicia is green and blue until you're going to get a multifunctional and cross-sectional strategy, which was a word that really to me an expression that reached my heart. Just as Mrs. Paula Prado says it is the reorganization of human resources that the President of the Advisory Council is investigating for reporting to the letter, that for obtaining a sentence that condemns the Advisory Council for making, according to Santiago's own Judge of Dispute No. 1, reports and torpedo and unjustified agreements, and for modifying the body of counsel of the Advisory Council to name them by finger. You both really deserve a prize from the Royal Galician Academy, a chair for each of them. [[Applause]] Counselor, the truth is, there's not much difference between what you told us last year and what you told us this year. The difference is that we asked a few questions last year and those same questions can be asked exactly the same this year. A year has passed and the questions are the same, with no answers. By that time you were back from Paris and a month after landing, they told us they were already in that strategy against climate change. Where is she, Counselor? We're still waiting, you see, in Paris he hasn't taken too much of a trip, or the trip didn't just talk about climate change, and we're waiting for his strategy. In waste management it is true that for you Sogama is that model, I would no longer tell international referent as you tell us, but even an interstellar referent, for the good that works. But I've already told you on your day at the Committee on Budgets, Counsellor. In your memory of the budget you say, in your conclusions, that Sogama implies: insufficient information on generation and collection of waste, high percentage of impropriety in the selective collection of the yellow and organic bag. So what will serve a new packaging recovery plant and a new composting plant, projected last year, of which we know nothing yet of anything, if you don't collect selectively and if you don't really invest in the selective collection of the waste, and that you recognize that you don't actually do? Why are we going to make new plants without previously investing in selective collection? And in that memory you recognize that there is a high territorial dispersion that does not recommend a unique management model. Well, you'll tell me it's Sogama if it's not a unique management model. Counselor, it's necessary or it's removed in the year that comes from your budgets, from your memory, these three conclusions of Sogama's diagnosis, or if not, really, that I don't know what you've done this year, this year and in the nearly thirty years that you've been ruling, because the management of trash in Galicia mostly with these absolute majority is the responsibility of the People's Party governments. There's a new Industrial Waste Management Plan, advisor. And in the new plan, 2016-2022, it is expressly said that no new treatment infrastructure is necessary during the plan's monitoring period, but you want to install, you want to authorize the installation of a new industrial waste dump in Lousame. Tell us why, Counselor. You say — I return to Sogama — that it is a model of perfection, but that Sogama transports its garbage primarily in trucks, not through the railway; trucks pollute and, in addition to transporting garbage, basically what they carry is water, and you are very worried about the water – – – you just say –. Sogama is solvent, in your opinion. Indeed, it is solvent, because we continue to maintain that 25.5% increase that citizens are paying, because it remains in force the additional provision 21 of the Budget Act of 2013. You're so room counsellor that you weren't even able to press for that climb to be eliminated once and for all by your Councillory. You're worried about the water, Counselor. But how many new infrastructures for sanitation and supply have been done — which you promised last year — from last year to today? None. In Pontevedra? None. The Edar de Poio? We're still waiting. Souto's EDAR in Santiago? We don't even know what the project is. And the EDAR of Ribeira, which is apparently an example, has received 475 complaints for health problems arising from very high concentrations of sulphur in pumping stations. I'm asking you if this is your purification and sanitation model. And besides, you had the defiance of voting yesterday against the Socialist Party's amendments to your budget specifically indicated to clean up the rites. Let's wait, Counselor, for him to be turned around. The truth is, you're talking about that network of natural parks. How many times have the management boards of natural parks met in the last eight years of Mr. Feijóo's government? You know that? They grab my hands, my fingers, to count how many times they've met. But you're going to fix it with an interstellar network, just like Sogama, to manage the natural parks, to be a tourist destination of Galicia. That's very scary, Counselor. The natural parks and the national park must not only be a tourist destination, but an object of protection, unless you intend to build a bridge like that bridge to the island of Cortegada that a mayor of your party intended to make the island of Cortegada a better tourist destination and not a specific protection space. Little did you talk about sustainable urbanism, counselor. The new Land Law knows you've done nothing but favoring the liberalization of the ground in Galicia. How many plans have been processed since last year, Counselor, since it came into force in the Land Law? Do you already have an autonomic basic plan, precisely, to favor you? In spatial planning, how much do you devote to planning management from the Territory Institute of Studies? And what budget do you devote to creating these basic plans? Absolutely insufficient, counselor, and you know that. To develop the Territorial Management Guidelines, they have no plans either in preparation or in processing. The truth is, you tell us here that one of your points is to talk about the circular economy. Well, actually, that's an economic model, by the way, which has a basic principle that is to take, do and discard, and that's what you're doing with the Environmental Council: take it, do it and dissipate it. For our part, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u78	Mrs. Vilan said that Mrs. Mato was very worried about the water, but she's in a very early state of concern, because a week ago she gave us a wonderful headline: people think that the water that comes from the tap falls from the sky. So we still lack much to advance in concern for the water, Counselor. It falls from the sky, the whole water, also from Cecebre, it also falls from the sky; we start with the abc. Well, once I've lost myself in the appearance of plans, strategies, mistakes; we don't follow the four mistakes that mark the Community directive in waste management and now we want to widen the errors: think about it, do you think about it? I don't know, I've lost myself with my mistakes. Many of the strategies that one thing proves are that, after ruling at this last stage eight years and after ruling thirty-five, they're still starting with many strategies, Counselor. If in 2017 they're thinking about making a strategy against the fight against climate change, they come later than Rajoy's cousin. And they're also going to make hydrological plans, etc., etc. A little thing before I'm forgotten. Can you answer why you voted in favour of privatizing the land of Solana, Hotel Finisterre, at the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority? Since you haven't come to answer the other day, you can answer me in the following line: why are you interested in privatizing the coast of the city of Coruña? Do you think it's the best electoral precaution you can do: privatize what is of all the corrupts and the corrupts? But we're serious, beyond plans, strategies, we're serious. In the fight against climate change, they're going to start making a strategy. We're serious. What are the main causes of greenhouse gases in this country, Counsellor?, if we are serious. As you saw the other day, Galicia is the third autonomous community of polluting emissions in fixed sources, right? Thermics, coal, contaminant industries, etc. What did you plan to do about it, Counselor? Transport, one of the major causes of the greenhouse effect. What are you planning to do, Counselor? Have you thought about thinking about it here, too? Have you thought again that during all these years you have been betting on a counter-productive transport system for the fight against climate change, betting on individual road transport, betting on the routes of capacity as the only way to communicate in this country? Do you know that this is counterproductive for climate change and represents a large percentage of greenhouse gases? What's he planning on doing? That's what you have to tell here. If we're talking about the fight against climate change, and this is a cross-cutting issue, talk about it. Waste management. I was talking about applying rationality to waste management. They've already said it here, Counsellor: Is it rational to transport the organic matter, for example, from the boundary district to Cerceda, when that organic matter at least 50% is water, after that water is burned? Is that rational? What did you plan to do to end that? What did you plan to do to treat near the place where these wastes are produced? What's he planning on doing? Because, from what we've seen now, they're just talking about expanding the plant, but not decentralizing it, and that's also against the fight against climate change. I ask you at least in this legislate to meet with the four wrongs, I don't want any more, with the four wrongs. To reduce, to reuse, to recycling, what do you intend to do, Counselor? What have they not done until now? Why do you say you intend to multiply by four the recycling to reach the sweet? So it doesn't have to be very good at math to know that we're in the third and that when is the year we have to have 50% recycling? Not 2020? Are you going to meet your goals? We're on the three, Sogama recycles the three. Sogama, climate change, this system is not a good system to fight climate change, what are you going to do? Or, for example, since we're serious about flowers and floral contests, food distribution system. Do you know that Galicia imports every year between 900 and 1 billion euros of food coming from outside, for example, that they are being downloaded into the Coruña, it sounds to the livestock that can't produce in this country what cows eat? You know that? Does it look like a smaller data than we have to import 900 million euros of food from outside? Not to me, and you just passed an Accompanying Law that promotes the increase of forest surface, which is precisely one of the enemies that recovers the useful agrarian surface so you can plant inputs here for the yellow gloves. That's serious. Can you mark a goal that this country reduces the food dependency, for example, for the owners? Can you talk to your partner, Middle Rural Counsellor, so that in four years we can reduce that dependency? Or is that old? Or do you think France, Germany or the United States have that food dependency? Because they are able to say that this is very old, but it's true, let's bring soy, let's bring thought to the yellow sheep that we could produce here and, while, we have the abandoned lands. That's serious about the fight against climate change, and you're still starting to write or think about drafting a strategy. Sanitation of the rivers. You come here and report a number of investments, but you haven't just arrived. They have been at this stage for eight years and have been thirty-five years in this country, or twenty-nine thirty-five – – I don't know – and, according to the report by the European Environment Agency, more than half of the quality areas of the Spanish State are found in Galicia. 87%, according to Intemar, of shellfish areas have fecal contamination. What happened here? We know that millions and millions and hundreds of millions of European resources have entered to clean up the rivers, but, if this is currently the state of healing the rivers, the responsibility I suppose, a great responsibility, will be yours, will it not, Counsellor? And are you not willing to rethink the sanitation model that has been implanted in this country or are you not willing to do an honest analysis of what has failed in this country so that the laughter can be found in this state? I don't think so. Because it's not just doing EDAR. It's just that you know that the situation in which many of the projects that have cost many millions, for example in Ribeira, etc., in many places, is very poor. And you were talking about reducing the energy consumption of these facilities. Of course, but it's just that you've been doing completely irrational and aberrant collector networks for many years now, and now in many of the places that you theoretically already compete for that goal of sanitizing the whole country, there are still leaks in the bombs, there are still leaks in the collectors, etc., like, for example, it's going on in Ribeira, thanks to its management, not ours; we don't rule in Ribeira or rule in the Union of Galicia. Not taking control, not tracking, privatizing control and tracking. Talk to any person, village councilman or person concerned about the environment, which is what happens to a normal person when he denounces a spill to a river, to see how efficient the system that you have implemented is that it works, to know the origin of the spills, so that the penalty to those who produce the spills works and to solve the spills. And the people who go to report this is a real hatred and sometimes they end up being treated as suspects instead of being treated as suspects who do the dumping. Sogama, which has nothing to do with the fight against climate change. You announced that the garbage canon was frozen. No, you apply the IPC, Counsellor, you apply the IPC, you don't freeze, do you? And how long does the IPC go up? 3% is going to rise, 3%. So, the accounts are that you've been raising 33% of the garbage canon a few years ago, you've dropped 10% two years ago, and now you've risen 3%; that is, in three years you've just increased 26%. Those are the bills, and then he comes here and sells that he freezes the cannon. Look, in order to be able to manage waste compatible with the fight against climate change, what the People's Party has to break is its relationship with Fenosa Natural Gas, because you made all the decisions to maintain the business of Fenosa Natural Gas, and the business of Fenosa Natural Gas is to sell the gas, which has millionaire contracts with Sogama, and sell electricity to Sogama. That's the big deal, millionaire, millionaire, counselor, with contrary reports from the Board of Auditors. And you're still keeping a model that prioritizes burning; the more you burn, the more business for Fenosa Natural Gas; the more you burn, the better the business goes to Sogama, and therefore you can barely fight climate change with this model. Change the model if they want to be credible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u80	...when they talk about the fight against climate change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u81	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u82	Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning also to the guests who are in the gallery upstairs. Good morning, Counselor. Although it's hard to be able to synthesize everything we care about our environment, about the rivers, about waste, about the protection of animals and the natural heritage, and also about the management of the territory, you did, counselor, a comprehensive exhibition, with many and important news that I thought would attract more attention from opposition groups, but it gives me the feeling that you haven't been listening to your proposals, your novelties, but that you've already come with a pre-written script, which was what they dedicated to exposing from this rostrum. Yes, Mrs. Vilán, sixteen news told me about the lady's briefing, and I'm sure I left some on the way, and you completely ignored them, absolutely all. You even used to talk about the previous debate, because it turns out they didn't let you talk to Mrs. Paula Prado and I had to settle those accounts. [[Applause]] I, frankly, counsellor, believe that you demonstrate the Government's commitment to this group, the majority group of the House by the mandate of citizens, with environmental policies and land management, with the mandate of the citizens, as much as it bothers them. And very badly they are if they have to start adding their results, their percentages of vote, so they can say they're just one point from this majority. You are not at a point of this majority, you are at a third of this majority; you have 14 Members when you were 18 in the previous legislation, and our group has 41 Members. It's very bad for you to add the result of the rest of the groups. I think there's some consensus that this has to be the legislating of environmental-decided bet. We have very important challenges with the conservation and use of our natural heritage, with the improvement of the quality of our waters, with the progress of the circular economy, with the reuse and treatment of waste, and also with climate change. What I think is not an environmental challenge, even that it is a lack of respect for those people who are concerned about the environment, is to bring the local debate to this House. I don't know if because you have very little to contribute about the environment or if you think you're doing a favor to a mayor who doesn't count on your city's trust. This advisor, on the other hand, is here because the People's Party has the support and confidence of most Greeks and Greeks. May you come, Your Honor, with artificial problems and conflicts that you intend to build to divert attention, for I ask you to do a reflection on whether you think the Town Hall of Coruña is your reference, if you think that the Town Hall of Coruña is the model that we have to reproduce the rest of the administrations. An administration that was unable to execute 52 million euros, which would be the same as if the Galician Union had not executed nearly two billion of its budgets, which had not executed the employment expenditure, which had not carried out the rehabilitation expenditure, the humanization of the streets, which had not executed the expenditure of social services. I know you're going to say you're the victims of the blockade. But, Your Honor, what are you doing here? What have you done here? You tried to block the budgets that were approved yesterday, that's what you did here. You don't make contributions, you do what you so well know how to do in my city, which is the policy of blocking. They blocked a health center in the market in Santa Lucia, blocked the civic center of Four Ways, the building of the Command of Works that we managed to have been handed over by the ministry, you gave up to make a social center of okupas, assigned, lordship, to your friends. What a wonderful way to privatize all of us! What's public you have for your friends, and when I talk about friends, you know who I mean, your architect friends of the Crown. And it is to thank you — returning to the subject that touches us — that in the face of these challenges that we have as a society, you come to this House and appear, your own will, explaining what will be the Government's response to these remains, and in addition that this answer is clear, concrete actions, concrete strategies, concrete plans, even detailing the budgetary commitment to these strategies, with those plans. As I said, ladies and gentlemen, we have many challenges ahead. One of them is to update our regulations on natural heritage. Galician Natural Heritage Act is already sixteen years old and, as it is logical, it needs a point-by-point. We have to harmonise the policy of sanctions, which you say nothing; we have to introduce new figures like micro-reservations, which they don't say at all; we have to pay special attention to habitats in danger of disappearance. But, ladies and gentlemen, the advisor offered them dialogue, or otherwise she also asked them for their cooperation. It's true that for dialogue there must be will on the part of the majority group, but not just that. Besides, from my own experience, I can tell you that majority groups also want to have that desire for dialogue, and perhaps to a greater extent. Look, this government, ladies and gentlemen, has a citizenship mandate, through an electoral program that has been supported by a vast majority, but we also understand that this can be enriched through opposition groups. But do not ask us to reach agreements, to facilitate such dialogue, we renounce or disregard the mandate of citizens. We have an electoral program that has been supported by most citizens, and that mandate we plan to fulfill. We also have, of course, since our group is interested in further improving management tools by expanding, preserving and improving the conservation of habitats and species of special interest; by further expanding the Natura Network; by developing and approving the management and use plans of all parks; and in the launching of the Galician biosphere reserve network. But we also want to pay attention to the very important impact our natural heritage has on leisure, tourism and also on the economy. That is why we are particularly interested in the ambitious plan of promotion and value, which will allow us in the next four years to make the most of this wealth. And I'd like the opposition groups to talk about that too. We have natural spaces that have a projection beyond the conservationist sphere, and also in that sphere, but also beyond that; spaces that enrich our identity as Greeks and Greeks, spaces that unite us and fill us with pride. He spoke of the councillor of the National Park of the Atlantic Islands, he also spoke of the beach of the Cathedrals, of Mount Pindo, of the Sacred Ribeira, of the Sil cannons, of the six biosphere reserves, of the Straits of the Eume and of the rest of the natural parks, The Courel and many others. Your Honor, this is a plan, it's a tool for spreading and getting to know our rich heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, as the advisor has just said, this month the draft animal welfare and protection law will be passed and its parliamentary processing will begin. It's a law that has already come up with important contributions from animal protection organizations. PACMA, Libera, APADAN, adoptions of Galicia, Infocircus and the Galego Council of Veterinarians have already made their allegations, their contributions to this text. It's a law with objectives I think shared by almost all of us or by all of us here: zero sacrifice and promotion of adoption and promotion of responsible tenance, fighting for abandonment and also fighting for all kinds of ill-treatment, including misuse for aesthetic reasons. And in this law, as with the natural heritage, we hope that the passage through the House will enrich the text and not result in a sterile debate. Look, Mrs Vilan, if you haven't approved it's already because there were elections and you've had to renew this House; so now the board of directors will bring you back. There may have been no elections, you would still have 18 Members, and you would probably be much happier, but that's not the case. Counselor, you're right: we can't waste more time, we have to fight climate change with all the tools that are within our reach, as if we were remembered at the Paris Summit and also at Marrakech. We thought from our group that it was a great success to create a General Directorate for Environmental Quality and Climate Change, which will focus and promote policies in this area; the Welsh Strategy for Climate Change and Energy 2050; to incorporate climate change into territorial management; also to boost the Welsh Strategy for Environmental Sustainability and Circular Economy; to create the technology centre for the environment; and, of course, in this commitment to climate change we will continue to bet on modern and efficient waste management. Because, ladies and gentlemen, as much as you care about them, in Galicia we have an international reference, which is a public, solvent, efficient and sustainable company, to which 94% of the municipalities, councils of the People's Party, councils of the Socialist Party, of the Nationalist Block, and I think we can. But it's not all done, of course it's not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u83	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u84	...and that's why we're going to support the continuous process of improvement on this plant. We're going to increase its capacity by 81%, we're going to multiply its contribution to recycling by four, and if we increase what we recycling, we're going to reduce the landfill, looking to get to the zero spill. And we know that, ladies and gentlemen, it's not happening in other models, because they're increasing their deposit in the dump.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u86	Furthermore, of course, we are going to put in place an industrial composting plant in Areosa because we believe it is compatible and will be able to process 15,000 tonnes a year from large producers, which will allow us to obtain between 3,000 and 4,000 tonnes of good quality compost. By the way, ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u87	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. No, I'm done, we're out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u88	...signs, if we have to explain the difference between prices with current rates and prices, we're going wrong, we're going very wrong. I think that's college first.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u89	Thank you, Mr. Trenor, thank you very much. Replica, Environmental Adviser and Territory Planning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u90	Good afternoon again. I will try to respond to the speeches of the representatives of the parliamentary groups who participated in this meeting to clarify some of their doubts and also to point out — the redundancy — that models are absolutely different. Mr Bará, to me the environment is not a slogan, and I deeply regret that it is for you and that it conveys it in your intervention. The environment is one of the main components in which citizenship, society as a whole today and every day is more committed. And the fruit of that and the commitment of the president of Galicia's board today is an exclusive advisor, not to manufacture slogans, but to develop policies that improve environmental conditions. You said we had two big holes in our community, and I was talking specifically about the situation of our rivers and even the situation of Sogama. I would like to clarify here the position, which is not political, but it is a reality, around the laughter and also around Sogama, as the various parliamentary representatives spoke in their intervention. The first of all, laughter, indeed, was a commitment by the Government of Galicia since the year 2009 to improve its condition, its sanitation from the beginning. And we have to remember, because it's not a ballad, that the investment in those years, from the year 2009 until now, in the rivers of Galicia is 600 million euros. And I'm saying it's not a ballad because everyone we're here knows well the economic circumstances that our country accompanied in those years from 2009 to 2011. What did we get with this investment? So we managed to increase in eight percentage points the quality of the water in good state; that is, we went from 70% to 78% of the water masses of our community in good state. Are we satisfied? No, we're not satisfied, because 78% is not 100 percent. And that's why the new hydrological plan of our community has invested and will invest by 2020 some 131 million, precisely to achieve that good state of all the water masses of our rivers. With these investments, Mr Bará, who — as he said — will be executed or running in 2020. By the way, to speak of the commitment of the Government of Galicia, where obviously in the area of sanitation and supply is not an exclusive competence, which, as you well know, corresponds to the municipalities. So that investments committed by the Galician Union to improve the sanitation of rivers are finished will be a reality. Now, the municipalities, for their part, also have to do their duties; it's not worth not having the nets separated within their county, even if we have the best debuggers in the creeks. And you were talking about Sogama, too. For if, indeed, I continue to defend that model, that model of urban waste management, a model, however, respectful of the environment, above any of the environmental indicators that you want to evaluate, whether in gas emissions, or even recycling. It is the urban waste treatment plant of our community, of the three that exist, which is less derived from the landfill. I have to remember that the two waste plants that exist in our community, Nostián and Lousame, in particular, carry in the dump between 50% and 60% of what enters the door, and that here in Sogama to the dump is diverting 25% of what enters. We have a firm commitment, and that is why investment, to improve our share of material recycling, because, of course, as European countries, whether Germany or Denmark, we are committed to energy recovery, but, above all, we are committed to making this investment not only improve our share of material recycling but also reduce to what is technically called "zero-green", which is our goal. I may not agree with you in all the qualifications that you have given you to manage this plant, what if I can forward to you is that this plant is absolutely compatible — and in fact it is doing so — with another model of what you were talking about, which is the composting model. We think it's a model compatible with Sogama. That is how we are currently investing EUR 3 million precisely to create an industrial composting plant — and I say, industrial substitutes — from organic waste coming from large producer centres, precisely so that they can make a good compound, that is to say, come well separated. We are also betting, and so we have developed, with 6,000 private composers that we have distributed in our community, because we believe that it is very efficient the compost of self-consumption — as we say it in some way. And I invite you to evaluate the experience of the community compound, for example, developed by a deputy, the Foral Deputy of Guipúscoa, and after you evaluate how Guipúscoa was, you yourself will speak. Of course, since Galician Union we think it's perfectly compatible and that's why we're developing it. With the intervention of Mrs Vilán, the representative of the Socialist Party, or the fourth PSdG — as you wish, among which we are a room of environment, we walk there — I thank her very much for her confidence in my person and, above all, her confidence in my abilities, because she now wants from this councillorship to take the competences in forest matters, if she carries the competences in industrial and forestry matters, if she also takes the competences of the Sea Agency... Home! we could evaluate it, but, of course, the structure model of the Galician Union is already defined, and I think it is to respond precisely to each of these sectors in an efficient way. You said you didn't like Sogama's model either. Well, his political formation also had the opportunity to rule, indeed, and he did nothing about it; on the contrary, they took to the dump of that — when the Socialist Party ruled — almost 50% of what entered the Sogama plant. And you say, "and they're not, and they're continually polluting." Mr Vilán, we have made an investment — Mr Bará said so — of transport, precisely to get almost 50% of the waste transported to the Sogama plant today by rail. That, of course, did this Government. And then you said we weren't talking about sustainable urbanism or we didn't commit to sustainable urbanism. Home!, it's been many years to ensure that you have a new current text, a text that responds to the needs of our soil management, above all that protects rural and even the landscape. But the most important thing is to ensure the development of the municipal management of all municipalities. And you asked, how many plans were approved? Pick it up with tweezers, because the truth is I don't remember exactly if last year was eleven or ten, pick it up with tweezers; what if I remember exactly is that there have been sixty that have been approved since our arrival in 2009. That is, more than 140 percent of city councils' plans, the fruit of the city council's work, have been developed by the hand of the collaboration of the Directorate-General of Urbanism for the development of management. I believe that this is sufficiently responsible, as is also the fact of carrying forward a modern legislation that not only develops laws but also develops its absolutely essential regulation, which is a pioneer and the first one that develops in our community. Mr. Sánchez, I come here as environmental advisor and therefore respond to environmental concerns and policies. And you were talking about the thermal, coal, transport, "What are you going to do?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Well, as we don't like going to the troum, what we like to do is make that roadmap that's going to be the strategy of the fight against climate change, where we'll define what we're going to do with the thermals, what we're going to do with transport, and where I invite you to actively participate because you know it. The strategy will have to bring it and I want to bring it to this Parliament so that it will, of course, be enriched as far as possible. And you also talked about the spills and the healing of the rivers, but above all about the spills. Man! for it was this Government who, precisely in response to those calls you were talking about citizens, to invent what was not previously — to invent, only to invent — the spills of our community, which today are in nine thousand, and of which the percentage is very low and uncontaminated. And continue with the intervention of what we want to do in the future. Mr. Bará said, "You have a lot of homework." Home!, there's still to be done, obviously it's not all done, not for Galicia, for Spain and even for Europe. In fact, that's why there's a strategy that obviously marks targets, and that's why there are provisions that are adapted in state legislation and in community legislation. And since Galician Union we want to have duties, but above all, we want to know how to do it, and that's why marking the roadmaps to define how to develop our environmental policies. And I think I was — and I would like to clarify it — clear in the news we want to develop in the future. There wasn't and there wasn't a promotion plan and put in value of our natural heritage; don't worry, Mrs Vilan, we'll be able to protect it and even to dynamize it economically and socially. There was and now there is a network of reservations from the biosphere, which is currently under treatment and will allow them to work in synergy. There was and there will be a Welsh strategy of climate change to fix all those measures that concern Mr Sánchez. And even there was not and there will be a Welsh strategy of economy, sustainability and circular economy. Since there was no calculation of the ecological footprint in our community, which is a key tool, which is our X-ray, which is the way to tell Galicia and to measure effectively whether the environmental measures we are taking are influencing or not climate change. There was and there will be a technology center of the environment. And there was no one who could empower our rivers and there would be a river observatory, precisely to assess in-depth all the policies that we could develop, and there was no master plan for those rivers. As we also want to develop the green infrastructure strategy in our community, precisely a network of natural and semi-natural spaces strategically planned to offer a wide range of ecosystem services, and even develop territorial plans. Finally, Your Honor, this council, the Territorial Environment and Planning Council, specifically created by the President of the Galician Council to make this area not a slogan but a primary area for our council. From this council, we will strive to comply with and enforce all environmental legislation, to be consistent and to be committed not only to comply with the word given, with that word given that today it has placed us in the Government, but also, of course, to improve the circumstances that accompany our community not only in the present but also in the future. And that is why, with regard to the environment, because we want to continue to foster responsible consumption of water, because we will be able to lead the fight against climate change, because we will move forward in sustainable urbanism, because it is vital to have sustainable urbanism to be able to ensure the economic and social development of our community, and because we want to move forward in the protection of our landscape and the natural environment, this government will move forward with those roadmaps and those strategies that we want to develop in the next four years. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u91	Thank you very much, Counselor. We've opened a special fold of doubling. [[Pause.]] Mr Bará Torres has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u92	Yes, thank you very much. There are some questions that I would like to comment on regarding your intervention, both the first and the second. For example, you spoke of a master plan of natural heritage with twenty-nine actions and an investment of 4 million euros. I think it's quite a small amount, but in any case, you'll already explain to us what you're going to do. What we have already proposed to you in the budget debate, and we also propose here, is that they apply in expanding the Natura Network. We're at the state's last post, as far as protected natural spaces are concerned, we're at 12%. You've compared yourself to other areas, and I'm telling you to compare yourself, for example, to Asturias, which is really a model to follow in the protection of natural spaces and also in the use of tourism of nature. You also spoke in your intervention of the Animal Protection Act, and we make a concrete proposal to you: you ban the tournaments, and you pass the bill that the BNG presented to you in this Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] That is an effective and effective measure of animal protection. With regard to laughter, the reality is that, the reality is that you have made 600 million investments, but the maritime sector and the fishing sector are reporting every day the critical situation of our rivers, and there are complaints from the European Union as well. What we ask of you is that instead of patching policy they make a policy of integral regeneration of the rivers where they involve the Government of the State and also other departments of the Autonomic Administration, and, above all, that they fight for the competences of the coasts, in the matter of the sea, in the matter of water, which is truly what gives us the capacity to act in this area. You're still wrong that you're wrong about Sogama. They're not going down here. Indeed, I believe that we have already shown that it is an inefficient system, which is highly polluting, which is expensive, which benefits private companies and that it is not — you have not answered this — the State Waste Framework Plan, which provides for recycling, the reuse of 50% of waste before 2020. And with this system they won't do it; we say it to them: they won't. You're putting in huge amounts of money to keep betting on this system that won't allow us to meet those goals. And I'm telling them more: you in your own plan set out that the production of waste in the community is about a million tons. Well, Sogama's expansion goes on its way and they say it's going to have the ability to handle all the garbage that's produced in Galicia, which means that you don't bet on composting because you want to treat Sogama's system, that is, the incineration system, all the garbage that's produced in Galicia. They have just awarded contracts for 490 million euros. That's called dispensation, it's called waste, it's called waste. We propose a pact, an agreement against climate change that goes through the change of the economic model, the social model and the environmental model, and that it has concrete measures such as, for example, the change of energy policy. We're telling them to end the veto, for example, on renewable energies and to cut down on electric monopolies, because we already know where it leads us, apart from the consequences it has with regard to climate change. We also propose a change in the mobility model, which is not the responsibility of your advisor, but the Government has to have an integral policy against climate change, and mobility is a central element in that sense. And we propose that they bet on healthy, sustainable and safe forms of mobility, in addition to another model of mobility on the roads, as well as bet on public transport, which bet on the railway, which bet on the nearby railway, and which assume the competences, which demand competence in this matter. We also propose an alternative policy to the waste that they are applying. I've explained this subject, I think, with enough amplitude. We also propose that they develop a forest policy and develop a multifunctional vision of the mountain. That's also fighting climate change. It's not to favour the proliferation of energy crops and the free bar to biomass, because what leads us to an even greater deterioration in the landscape and the mountain of Galicia. It's also a different policy with regard to biodiversity and the increase in the protected area and land management, as well as the development of protection instruments. So if they really talk about dialogue and talk about a pact, it would also have to be a pact to end discretion in the distribution of public funds that you apply, for example, with the budgets of the Galician Waters, which we have already denounced here. If they're really going to make a local water pact, they also start by correcting these partisan practices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u94	And if you want a pact, which is not a pact to impose, to apply the R that you really like most, which is the R on the roller — that's the R that you really like to apply —. If they want to make arrangements here are our proposals, here we leave them. What we're not really going to do is we're going to support wrong policies that are contrary to the common sense and that are contrary to the environment and that involve excessive spending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u95	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. The Socialists' Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u96	Thank you, President. Counselor, of what you just told us, I'm going to focus on three issues, because the debate has been too long and we have little time. You're talking about climate change. And as for you, Sogama is that model that must be copied internationally, you set an example for several countries of the European Union, including Germany, saying that Germany had a lot of incineration. But there's a data, advisor, that you don't tell us, and it's how far it comes to plants and what kind of garbage comes to German incineration plants, and what amount of garbage and what kind of garbage comes to Sogama for its incineration. It must also be borne in mind that with the crisis the level of consumption has fallen and therefore what enters into Sogama is very different in quantity from what entered at the time of the Government presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño, precisely because there is less consumption that enters the Sogama plant, and you know it well. It would be nice if six thousand composers were installed in Galicia, by Galicia ahead, you recognize that making an integrated system with the other plants that are also responsible for composting and that I'm not Sogama would be a good integrated system for applying in Galicia. And, Counselor, you haven't done any more railways so Sogama can benefit. It's true that 50% comes through the railway, it's for something very simple: because the Coruña, Vigo, Pontevedra, Santiago and Ourense are connected with Cerceda through the railway, and they are the ones that consume most because they have more inhabitants. The rest—it's very simple, counselor—of Galicia's about 300 municipalities carry their garbage through trucks, not through railways, because they don't have it; it's not that only people can't move. [[Applause]] Counselor, I use the railroad every day, and really there's no railroad from Bande. From Bande there will have to be a truck moving to Ourense, and from Ourense will go through the railways that specifically have Sogama to move the garbage. If you go to the station here in Santiago, for a mouse in the afternoon and see how the wagons pass, but, of course, from Bande they certainly don't come. Counsellor, yesterday there was even a news—and today—that says Brussels criticizes Spain because of the twenty-eight countries of the European Union we are number 23 with lower incomes for environmental taxation. They criticize us because we're the last in line because we don't have a global strategy to eliminate environmentally harmful subsidies, because we don't have any taxes to increase pollution and disincentive activities. I'd like to know if you are in this very Galician strategy, that you are the last of the European Union's countries' queue of environmental pollution taxes. It would be good if you took a coffee with an economic and industrial advisor, and in addition to telling him that the Forest Industries Agency could come for his advice, because it also tells him what kind of taxes — and also with the Fairy Counsellor — will be imposed on environmental pollution, to stop being the country 23 Spain — and you can tell Mariano Rajoy and his cousin, what kind of taxes will be imposed so that we will not be the last of the queue, the "last of the row" that was said at a given time. You're talking about the good ecological state of the waters, advisor, and that since 2009 they've been a priority. And what did we get? So we have managed to get the European Union to punish us again — that is its result — for the poor ecological state of our waters. That's what we've achieved with your policy of sanitation and debugging. It is good that his model is that of the EDAR of Ribeira, with 475 complaints, not only that of the former Environmental Adviser, who promised EUR 3 million for infrastructure related to EDAR of Ribeira. That's your model of sanitation and debugging, by the way. And finished with biodiversity. We remain calmer because we believe that the debate might not have been in Horreo, but it would have moved to Maria Pita, with the intervention of the spokesperson of the People's Party, but what it might be. Counsellor, as his name sounded for the mayor of the Coruña, you may have a competitor who settles in Maria Pita, and what you want to install in Maria Pita came here today to defend that of the Solana... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u97	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u98	...—I have finished, President—By the way, the debate on Solana is right to arrive at Parliament when the legislation begins, because the debate on Solana was last week. Too bad you've just arrived this week and this full! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We are also more at ease because you tell us, Counsellor — and I am finished, President — that the observatory on our rivers is no longer making them more sensitive, like the stream of Pontevedra, but you are going to empower them. Well, we really stay much quieter. They don't empower women, and they just need to see how many advisors there are in their government and how many counselors, but they empower the rivers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u100	First of all, welcome Mr. Trenor, who is missing a full to call us Bolsheviks. He spoke, yes, in a tone of contempt for okupas, he did not speak in a despective tone when there were twenty thousand empty dwellings in the Crown, or three hundred thousand in Galicia, but the okupas did speak in despective tone. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] He talked about my friends. For now, I'm not ashamed of any friend I have. You've already taken several of those who have refused, eh! I'm starting to make a list of the friends they've disowned? There is one MP from the PP who does not disown Camps, who does not disown Gürtel, Correa, etc., none, none, none, does not deny, you... yes, sir, it's consistent, they should all be like you, all consistent, and they don't deny what they're going to fall from. [[Laughter]] Renega de Bárcenas, you? [[An honourable Member exclaims: I don't know him!]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u101	Silence, and let them speak to what is in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u102	...as I told you, Mr. Trenor, I do not refuse...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u103	And you don't address the Members. Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u104	I don't deny any friends, like you guys are leaving a row of friends of those who deny. And then from the model of the Town Hall of Coruña. No, no, of course, the model of the Town Hall of Coruña, who do you mean, the model of Black, Pikachu and Julio Flores, Mr. Trenor? I wish I wouldn't feel too proud. As in Compostela of the model of Count Roa and the other two mayors, I wouldn't feel very proud either. From now on, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He was talking about dialogue, Mr. Trenor, you see, you see, there's dialogue. First, you saw it yesterday... calm down, calm down. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You see, you see... Mrs. Prado, you've spoken a lot, oh! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u105	Please keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u106	You see there was dialogue yesterday, you see dialogue today, for two reasons: You've just said the usual: we've won the elections and, therefore, we don't have to incorporate any suggestions that the opposition can make. That's what you said here. And on the other hand, also the Counsellor, who didn't say anything, first, because, of course, the Solana and the one to vote in favour of the privatization of the coruna lands and the corunasas today doesn't play, because we're not for that, that's what he said, that we're not in the right place for you to answer. The other day I asked a question, he didn't answer either. I don't know what scope you're going to answer once because you voted in favour of privatizing the lands of the corunas and the corunas, and that explains it, of course. But it's more: he's here to show up and he's talking about four axes. One of the axes is the fight against climate change, and when you talk to it about transcendent and concrete issues, you say it doesn't touch because you have to bring the strategy here to Parliament. And then we still have no answer from the advisor about the mobility system, about the waste management system, about the food distribution system, about the issue of thermals, etc. So, what did we come here for? Because I didn't do demagogy, I talked about the issues that are 99% of the cause of greenhouse gases, and you answered that the strategy will come. Clearly, we are at that point. I mean, when the strategy comes, 2017, what have they done so far? Because I know you've cut up to 70% of environmental policies, that's right. But you'll tell me it was the crisis, that there were revenue cuts. Good. But to make a strategy for fighting climate change, you don't need money, you need will, and you've been in government for eight years, and you don't even have that strategy yet, you don't even have the diagnosis. You come here to make floral games. I got it right, and they're going to expand the surface of the Natura Network, so I said. What happened to the Nature Network Director Plan that you approved? Why didn't the surface expand at that time and now yes? Why didn't you heed the European Union's recommendations at that time? Because that Nature Network Director Plan didn't increase the surface and increase the deprotection of protected areas in theory. We've also been talking about the healing of the rivers. Well, we have many examples of how you work with that. Operation Frontino with Mr. Arias Cañete, overruns at the debugger stations. But here and here in Ferrol, here in Ferrol, they gave Florentine 38 million euros, and they were covering people the rate of clearance and the water was going out undegraded, eh!, that the mayor of Ferrol had to come to discover all that shame, you know? You're charging debugging fees for not debugging. [[Applause]] As for taxes, of course. Do you know how many air pollution taxes were collected last year?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u108	Four and a half million. Against these causes of 70% of greenhouse gases, you charge them four and a half million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Roll for the Popular Parliamentary Group, for Mr. Trenor López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u110	Yes, thank you very much. Mrs. Vilán, you will have to explain to me exactly what you were taking 50% to the dump because there was no crisis, and now as there was a crisis, or as there was a crisis, we took half. I mean, then even now you're going to say that the crisis has caused some positive effect, at least in waste management. But, Mrs. Vilán, you make some arguments that are very difficult to understand, frankly; perhaps because you are obsessed with some things that are to make him look. Look, you're with whom you're responsible for an organism or the responsible for another organism, whether you're an advisor, whether you're the advisor or the other advisor. Look, forget it now, leave the Bipartite, that's over; now there's a Government, there's no two; now there's no need to fight for organisms, there's no conflict to coordinate the various departments of the board of Galicia, because they belong to the same government. That's why I'm telling you, forget about the Bipartite. Mr. Sánchez, if you care so much about the housing of the people who live in my city, they run the budget that they have for housing, that they were unable to do so, and they also run the budget for social services, for the people who stay homeless, who also left it without executing. And after doing all that, they add up to the empty housing plan of the Galician Union. And surely that will help a lot more those people who have housing problems in my city. Ladies and gentlemen, as the advisor told you, we find ourselves at a key moment in order to achieve a real and global level of sustainable development; a development that allows the use of resources, the quality and the well-being of current generations, but which at the same time does not put itself at risk and guarantees their enjoyment by future generations. Protecting, preserving and valuing those riches of our natural heritage is a challenge that we have to face and overcome successfully. And that is the objective of the initiatives reported by the adviser, whose novel news are — these are the ones that I could extract, but surely there were many more—: first, it will have a plan to promote and put into the value of the natural heritage; the policy framework for the protection of our heritage will be updated with the renewal of the forthcoming 2001 rule; these are the ones that I could extract, but surely there were many more—: first, it will have a plan to promote and put into value the natural heritage; the policy framework for the protection of our heritage will be updated; the current policy framework for the protection of our heritage will be renewed by renewing the new policy rule of 2001; it will carry out the expansion of the area of the Natura region; it will also launch the first Welsh strategy of climate change and energy and climate change 2050 energy, where the main lines of action in the fight against this phenomenon will be strengthened. The main lines of action against this phenomenon will be strengthened and placed as a reference to us as a European strategy; it will also make the strategy of sustainable management management strategy; the management management strategy for environmental management of environmental sustainability management and stability and the functioning and the functioning and the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the functioning of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation; it; it will; it. will move of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation; it; it; it will be. it will be. it will also implement; it will implement of the dialogue; it will also implement; it will also implement of the role; it will also implement of the role; it will also implement of the role; it will also implement of the role; it will also implement; it will also implement; it will also implement; it will also implement; it will also implement; it will put; it will put; it will also implement of the full economy will And with regard to land management it will develop the first green infrastructure strategy, starting with the Metropolitan Area of the Coruña; it will update and renew the Land Management Act, obsolete after twenty years; it will put in place key measures in urban matters, which will complete all the work developed in this area — the autonomous basic plan, the municipal basic plans — and will also draft the basic planning standards; it will also develop the network of integrated territorial plans. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting legislation and you have two options: to collaborate, to contribute, to respect the mandate of the Greeks and the Greeks, or, on the other hand, to obstruct and block. For now you've been betting on this last option, but — as I tell you — we're starting legislation and they can even amend themselves. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. You now have the doubling round of the lady's environment and planning advisor, Mrs. Mato Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u112	Thank you very much, President. I will also try to respond in this last intervention not only to the Government's commitment, but also to the doubts raised by Mr Bará. It's four million euros, yes, but it's for a plan to promote our natural heritage, because it has to do with investments that we're dedicated to improving the natural park's own infrastructure, it has nothing to do with this budget; it's about two million euros a year that we're going to allocate only to natural parks. I don't have the data now to tell you about the rest of the protected spaces. You were talking about picking up my glove, that glove telling you to try and get into a pact. I can assure you that I will often evaluate those proposals — which you say will bring to this Parliament — of that pact in this case against climate change. Mrs Vilán, not because of the speech of the People's Member, but obviously 50% of what comes, 100,000, 400,000 tonnes, is 50%. What I'm saying is that I'd come in 50 percent to the dump. That was the policy that developed in Sogama when the Socialist Party was in front of the Government of Galician Union. And then you were also talking about what we were sanctioned in our community precisely by our debugging model. No, we're not punished yet. In fact, we have the firm hope that Santiago, Vigo and even Ribeira will not have that sanction of the European Union, precisely because we have been who, through the Government of the State and, above all, of the investment of the Galician Union, of making a number of infrastructures and investments that today have substantially improved the quality of the waters, including Ribeira. And you said, "You bet on the Ribeira model." I have the opportunity to answer exactly by the Ribeira model tomorrow. I bet by the Vigo model, for example, that it is the largest investment in debugging which has ever made the Government of Galicia's Union. By that model I bet. And you have to listen here to the Ferrol model in this Parliament and set me as an example of the model of management in the area of sanitation of the local government of Ferrol, Mr Sánchez, man! Because what leads to this council and what has harmed that council, uniquely and exclusively thanks to inactivity and, of course, to which they have no presupposition, to Ferrol's laugh, because for more than seven months now, in particular since June last year, it is available to the council the connection to the collectors who will ensure that the spills that go directly to the creek are eliminated, and that today is damaging the operation of Ferrol's debugger, man! That, of course, I can assure you that it's not the model that we've wanted since Galician Union. Since you speak to him, from what I see, ask him to connect already at once an investment that he did not make, that was developed by the State and the Council of Galicia, that he connects it already, that he removes the spills of the river, that he makes those collectors available to improve the operation of the debugger, that today is not working well because the mayor doesn't want it, or he can't; everything can also be: that he doesn't want it or he can't. Ah! And, by the way, ask him to sign some paperwork. Because because I can't sign some paper, I can't invest 7 million euros in stream sanitation, Mr Sánchez. I can't invest 7 million euros because the mayor of Ferrol doesn't sign a little paper. We did the job, we did the reports, all you have to do is sign it, and you're not able to sign it to improve the state of sanitation of a creek. And then he says he's worried about the circumstances of the seafood sector. Man, you worry, do what you have to do: first of all rule. In the meantime, we will continue to bet — as I told you — on the policy and environmental needs of our autonomous community. Today we are at the beginning of a legislation, a legislation that has placed the People's Party in front of this government. From a legislation where we actually want to take forward our roadmap and our strategy: first of all, in the fight against climate change. I'm not here to say exactly what the measures are going to be, but to say that I'm going to try to work with all the social agents, with all the entities, with the universities and even, of course, with all the administrations, with the departments of the Galician Union and the other administrations, to write that roadmap that's going to be the fight against climate change. Because, of course, we want to move forward and we want to be at the forefront of that train which has to be the commitment of administrations to something that we cannot and which is absolutely irrevocable, and which we are already taking from the Council of Galicia. And I was talking about how long I trusted him. Well, until the year 2050. Home!, you can understand — I suppose — if you are involved in the environment, that the circumstances and efficiency of environmental policies are not measured from year to year. And we will continue to make progress, indeed, in bringing forward a strategy of environmental sustainability and encouraging the circular economy, to do something that is important and that will mark the decisions of our policy, which is to know the footprint that we now have ecologically in our community; also to put in place a technological centre of the environment; and, of course, to move forward in a management that is more effective than waste, in a management that is sustainable and also in improving environmental legislation. I want to do special fincapé in a defense that we're taking forward, which is that of our natural heritage. We believe that if Galicia is a reference to its cultural heritage, it can also be a reference to its natural heritage. That's why we're going to increase the space of the Natura Network, and that's why we're going to continue to move forward in its protection, conservation and worth. But because we believe that for this we have the recognition of sustainable tourism, that is why we will continue to develop a tourism policy, an economic policy and a social policy that preserves it and keeps it dynamic for our autonomous community. And even we will carry out different laws: the Law of Natural Heritage; even the creation of the Galician Biosphere Reserve Network; the Animal Protection Act, which will shortly enter this Parliament; and of course, that objective in which the President of the Galician Union has been working anywhere since the first moment, since 2009, which is the sanitation of our rivers. As I said, the sanitation of our rivers is going to be the commitment of the Government of Galician Union, the first commitment, but I'm going to point out that it's of no use to get rid if the municipalities don't do their homework; that is, if the municipalities don't exercise their powers in terms of sanitation specifically improving their networks, if nothing will do. And that is why we want to take forward a negotiation in which we are already working with the Fegamp precisely to achieve that local water pact, which I myself will propose for a signature precisely so that we can define among all of us and optimize public investments among all of us, which is money from all of the Greeks, and, above all, the recovery of the costs of these public investments, because that is what the Community directive says and why it says the use of Community funds precisely to make these investments. And we want to put, first of all, our rivers, that Galicia, which we all know as "the Galicia of the more than a thousand rivers", with a body that we will create through a decree, which will be the observatory of the rivers, where they will speak, will participate, discuss and propose various measures such as universities, entities and associations that work, live or enjoy our rivers and, of course, all administrations. And, like not, I want to leave for the end something that is essential for the development of the whole economy of our community, which is urbanism; responsible urbanism, sustainable urbanism and, of course, the protection of its landscape. There can be no doubt that since the Government of Galicia since 2009 sufficient steps have been taken in the area of law just to protect not only our landscape, but also the rural environment, but to develop that responsible urbanism to which we all appeal. That was the result of all legislation, but especially the adoption of the Land Law, its regulation and the commitment that we now have in the next four years with the development of a new Land Management Act, with the development of basic plans, especially municipal basic plans, and, of course, with the development of territorial plans. For my part nothing else, today I outlined the main lines, which not all of us want to take forward the Environmental Council over the next four years, but of course, this Parliament is sovereign and I will therefore have the opportunity to stir up for the most part each of the actions that we will develop from this board within four years. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u113	Thank you very much, Counselor. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, on the position that the Government must defend in relation to the reform of the self-financing model planned for the year 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u114	And now we turn to the debate of the first motions, as was announced at the first hour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga. This motion was tabled an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. [[(G.P. Galician people, through their spokesperson and through the aberration of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submit to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Amendment of amendment and addition.It must be replaced by the text of the resolution of the motion, as well as the following:"1. Removal of paragraph 1 of Motion.2. In point 2(a) add at the end: "...as regards the budget financed from own funds".3. In point 3, delete points (b) and (c)]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. 4. In point 4 delete point (b) In point (d) add the word "more" between "participation" and "effective". 5. In point 5 in point (c) add after "AEAT will cooperate" the phrase "in a more effective way...". 6. in point 6 replace the text of point (b) with the following: "The regulation of the spending rule must be reformulated so that a more flexible application can be made to fulfilling communities with the deficit and debt criteria below the average of the CC.AA.""
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u115	Mr. Leicega has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u116	Good morning or almost good afternoon. This motion is a consequence of the interpellation we filed 15 days ago. And I think I converge on it two debates that have been taking place in this Parliament since the beginning: The first one has to do with the financing model of the year 2009, and here there are groups and other matches and differences. We believe that the characteristics of the model are improved, so the proposal that comes up with some of the comments that the advisor himself made in the inquiry, that, in addition to concrete proposals, we should incorporate references to more general criteria, and therefore we have incorporated it into the amendment. It's better — I say — that model in its characteristics. We try to improve it through these more than 20 concrete proposals organized in several blocks. The overall results of the 2009 model in purely financial terms of resources are insufficient, although they were incorporated into that model between 2009 and 2011 some 11,600 million euros additional. Among other things, because there was a fall in the collection by the impact of the crisis, very acutely at that moment when the model began to be implanted. Because the model lacked stabilization mechanisms and the crisis had a direct impact on the collection possibilities of the communities themselves, but also on those central taxes that then financed the communities, and there were no adequate stabilization mechanisms. But it must also be recognized by the tax policy of the Government of Spain as of 2012, which has brought about the adjustment of autonomous communities in a much higher proportion than its spending on all administrations. From 2011 to 2015 — government data itself — the deficit in autonomous communities is almost 70 percent, 67%, while the deficit in central government is reduced by 21 percent at the same time. The deficit is much lower, the adjustment is much greater in the autonomous communities. And it must also be borne in mind that they apply extremely controversially, with little respect to institutional loyalty, some elements of the model. For example, when Mr. Rajoy's government comes up with the EVV, which is 50 percent funding autonomous communities, however, they don't receive a euro more collection, the whole additional collection goes to the Central Government because, although transfers to EVV are increased, these deductions from the other funds, so at the end, in net terms, communities receive nothing. And the third element of the model we're discussing is Galicia's position. Here we know that since the beginning of 2009, the position of the current Government of the Union has been maintained — until 2015 at least. The government in 2009 was that Galicia was badly treated by the model, which was insufficient. We didn't share this criterion. Galicia received around 6.8% — summarizing almost 7% of the total resources, very above its population; the model was not taken into account, although it can certainly be improved and can be improved, factors such as aging or dispersion, so we said: this may be improved, but the starting position is not so bad. What do we propose in the motion? Well, first, we propose to improve the characteristics of the model. I mean, 20 proposals with openness. We are willing to talk about how to do the best of formulations so that we can all feel more comfortable with this proposal. Secondly, maintain or improve Galicia's position, and therefore that 6.8-7% may be kept, at least, but improved, on the rise. Thirdly, we also want the overall amount of funds allocated to autonomous communities to have a substantial rise in the short and medium term. And we do this for a number of reasons. First, because it represents regaining the balance broken by the evolution of these years of crisis in the behavior of different administrations, and therefore putting ac in a situation more in line with that of others. Adjustment has fallen too far on the autonomous communities. We must compensate for this phenomenon by incorporating now, when resources are discussed for all communities, by incorporating something additional. This would better finance basic public services. When we talk about self-financing -- we have to remember it over and over again -- we talk about health, education, we talk about dependence, we talk about basic infrastructures, we talk about justice, so we talk about basic services for the population. Another 10 billion for the community as a whole, which is 10%, is an assumed amount and so we believe that this effort would have to be made. Thirdly, we also want this to be done because that's what must allow the autonomic financing model to be revised. If there are no additional resources, if it's a zero sum game, it's going to be much harder for us to transform the characteristics of the model so that Galicia is better treated. This will not be achieved, because communities that lose in absolute terms will offer much greater resistance, and therefore it is necessary to lubricate — let us say — the review of the model with some additional resources to allow this reform to take place. And finally, as you know in the council -- the CEO-general has been in Valencia a short time ago -- other autonomous communities there also claim additional amounts. So this means being in phase, not losing control of the claim of other autonomous communities and going into a more balanced situation with others. And my question, in view of the amendment they pose, is why they're not willing to support this solution, because just at that point first, where we discuss these things, you say you have to suppress it. Delete the reference to funding increments for all autonomous communities; delete the reference also to maintain, at least, the relative position of Galicia. And this is shocking, it should be the first interests — because they're ruling — that this happened, because that would give you a much more clear financial scenario for the next four years. The truth is, it's amazing. Especially when since the campaign, in the investment, the president of the board has led us to say that Galicia itself, that Galicia is its unique commitment, is wrapped in the flag of Galicia... because this is the time to pass the cotton test! If one is involved in the flag of Galicia, in the moments when the central interests of Galicia are discussed, and autonomous funding is one of them, it is when an effective exercise of galeguity and willingness to sacrifice, if you want, peace, good relations within the party, good relations with the Government of Spain, to take a step forward and defend Galicia's interests. It's not very reasonable that the president of the board wants to avoid the rocks, frictions — I don't know himself with Montoro, I don't know whether with Vice President Sáenz of Santamaría, I don't know whether with Mr. Rajoy, or with all of them, and let Galicia's interests not get in the foreground. That's not Galicia yes, that's Galicia depends, Galicia depending on the circumstances, Galicia depending on the interests of the supporters. That's not putting Galicia in the foreground, that means leaving Galicia's flag aside and opting for a different strategy. Rectify, and correct, I think we'll get a good deal for everyone. If they don't correct, of course, we'll have a problem, because that means that, beyond rhetoric, when we're discussing cash and sound resources, things change and priorities are set differently. This is the central political issue of the motion. This is really what we're discussing. This is what will define whether this motion actually serves to move forward or remain in a well-intentioned statement, which I think can serve to reinforce, in any case, Galicia's position in the debate, but that remains — let us say — half the way out of what we could do. That's the debate that I'm using to give you a positive answer, because we can all find ourselves at a meeting point that is beneficial to Galicia's interests. It's your responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u117	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I agree that we are faced with a fundamental issue. First of all, because we are certainly talking about the sustainability of the welfare state, and I would even dare say that it is also about the sustainability of the autonomic system, the state of autonomy. That is precisely why there is a certain consensus. I believe that at the Conference of Presidents — which we had the opportunity to first-hand through the presence of the President of the Chair two weeks ago — we had a very commendable exercise of agreements. I remember that at that conference of presidents there were seven presidents of autonomous socialist communities, who all have government agreements or either with citizens or with the equivalent or what they represent in this House the Tides. Five presidents of the People's Party who are also supported in four cases with agreements with other political forces — the only exception, as we know, of an absolute majority in all the autonomous communities is this House — and there were also two nationalist presidents: that of Canary Islands and that of Navarra, also with different agreements and coalitions. Two autonomous communities were missing, which express the historically problem of autonomous funding, which is an asymmetric funding as a result of the application of the system, especially that recognizes our constitution to the two historic communities, and Catalonia, which, of course, is in political circumstances that are known to all. But the relevant thing is that there was an agreement between the presidents supported by the Socialist Party, by Podemos and the People's Party on the system of self-financing reform. I also agree that this is a fundamental issue for Galicia. On the basis of what was adopted at the Conference of Presidents, I think we can say that Galicia has come out very well on the basis of that agreement. In that agreement, I would like to recall that the new model of self-financing needs to be based on the principles of solidarity, adequacy, equity, transparency, fiscal co-responsibility and guarantee of citizens' access to public services on the basis of their actual cost, not to mention that they are fundamental public services, but rather on all public services, which is precisely something incorporated into the motion, principles which we consider to be fundamental, which we agree on, and which reflect, as I said before, an environment of consensus and a climate of consensus between presidents of the most varied ideologies, on the one hand. And second, that the president of Galicia has supported something that is good for the whole system, but which is also especially good for Galicia. That starting point had, as you know, another corollary, which was the establishment of an expert committee. Something that is new also in the reform of the system of self-financing, with representatives from all the autonomous communities present. Here we are taking a first step towards developing the agreement of the Conference of Presidents, with the appointment of a person who, if not unanimity, has agreed, precisely because of his academic quality and his political independence, a certain degree of support specific to the proponent of this motion. Today we have the opportunity to put that climate back together again, and we do so following the motion presented by the Socialist Group, about which I mean that we agree with the fundamental, with 90% of the motion's text. We have introduced some minor amendments, with nuances, for example, as to what it can mean the impact of the early retention, or the immediate transfer of the retention system, to taxes that manage the state, and how it can influence the development of our own budgetary process. But we believe that it is possible to agree nothing less than with the full fairness and solidarity of the system, with stability in the provision of public services, with financial autonomy, with institutional loyalty, with coordination with State administration is with the sustainability of the system, which is points 2 to 6 of the motion. However, in fact, we have a problem with point 1. In point 1 they are resource commitments in the system, and even if a specific resource result is required or suggested for Galicia. This, of course, is the result of the Conference of Presidents, which has an agreement on principles and there is no debate on the funds that go to the system, which will be in a second phase. But it is also a point of contradiction that we are discussing the principles that should inspire the system and, at the same time, predetermining the results of the application of those principles. Either we're talking about principles, or we're talking about money. In some ways, we can vote anything but point 1 and ask for those resources, regardless of the system of self-financing, or we do a more reasonable negotiation, which is to see what principles the system should inspire, and then, in the second phase, when it starts, of course there will be additional resources.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u119	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u120	That's why we're optimistic about being able to engage in dialogue. Our will is to support the fundamental principles that are incorporated with some shade; that is, points 2 to 6 of this motion. In any case, we also understand that point 1, if we cannot support it, could be voted aside, because we have the opportunity today to continue giving a good signal, which is that, at least in the principles that must preside over the system of self-financing, for the good of the whole of the autonomous communities and also of Galicia, there is an agreement in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u121	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. Today, in fact, we are debating a PSOE motion on an important aspect in relation to the financing and the future financing model, and in that sense I want to be very clear: that the Nationalist Block in Wales cannot support a proposal that basically wants to maintain the current system, that denies us the right to manage our resources and that ultimately passes through a wrong path and condemns us, to the Greeks and to the Greeks, to repeat the mistakes of the past. We have very clear that to move forward in a model of fair financing is not worth coffee for everyone; neither is this autonomy well understood to deny the country's possibilities. And of course we believe that, if Galicia went out losing in the past with this financing model, she'll continue to lose with the same model just with alterations. So if you consolidate this bipartisan agreement here, we'll see how we follow the chronicle of a new failure that will pay the Greeks and the Greeks. There's obviously Mr. Feijóo's responsibility here, which is neither expected nor expected on this subject. It has not done us all these years — despite the fact that we have been talking about funding reform — and not a single serious and rigorous study on the situation of the country. It was denied that this Parliament could have a commission of study in the past legislation, and today we are not familiar with the Government's proposal, which is a nonsense in terms of political initiative. We only saw Feijóo go, without any sort of schedule or claim, to the Conference of Presidents refusing to have bilateral treatment with the State and without any country proposal. His is to be diluted like a sugar pot in that coffee for everyone who — I insist — knows us very bitter. The only proposal that Mr Feijóo made here in the morning — absent from this debate — was to say that he wanted to deal with a representative on that technical committee, and in the afternoon he called us the advisor by telling us what the proposal was and thus giving us an early meal. And, I insist, we like, in any case, to participate in the elaboration of the final result. In addition, they choose a representative on that committee who defends that Galicia has benefited, over the years, from this funding system, and therefore we believe that, with that point of departure, we are neither in a good negotiating strategy nor, indeed, we have a position of strength, of intelligence, that allows us to address that debate properly. What is clear is that this is not going to respond to a decision made by four technicians in this committee, because if not, it is better to resign the parliaments, not to convene more Conferences of Presidents and, of course, not to tell us what this Technical Commission is going to be, who is really going to decide the future of the financing system. This is a purely political debate, and we continue to insist: the best thing for Galicia is that we have country ambition, that we manage our resources, that we decide with them how we want to distribute them and, therefore, that we have real autonomy also in the financial field, and not an autonomy that in practice turns us into managers of the decisions of others, which is what is, by the way, consolidated on this motion. It seems to me, of course, that it is obvious — in view of the two interventions — that both the People's Party and the Socialist Party share that the structure and model is essentially good. But some questions of the debate are also surprising. Getting into practice, talking about the system's adequacy. But what should be the system's capacity? Why is it not assumed that, in any case, the system should finance the real cost of the skills being exercised in our country rather than with weights and variables? That would be the least we would have to demand. However, this proposal — and it seems that it also affects the Government — does not cover or even correct the government's deficit in the financing of public services in our country, and really the contribution that it makes is that Galicia receives some EUR 879 million more, which is not used to cover the deficit in the provision of public services that our country has. According to the 2014 figures, and also by taking into the Union's settled budgets, we saw how the current financing system has only brought our country EUR 5,107 million to fundamental public services. The budget settlement data tell us that the Board has spent 6,217 euros; that is, there is a deficit of 1,110 million euros. But this isn't the worst data. If we take the series from 2009 to 2014, it turns out that there is a difference of more than 10 billion euros, an average of 2,000 million euros less than we are spending on financing those essential services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u124	So -- and I'm ending up -- since the Nationalist Block in Wales, what we can't accept is a proposal that we already say consolidates a deficit of EUR 10 billion and doesn't give us real autonomy. And we believe that, if we want autonomy and efficiency, the best thing is that all taxes that are generated in our country well for what people pay for, well for what companies pay for, we can manage them, because — I insist — is much more than the crumbs that leave us this funding system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In relation to the position of the motion presented by the Socialist Party today, it seems that, with substantial agreement from the Government party at the moment, we make a preliminary clarification regarding the position of En Marea, and that the whole debate on the new financing system has to start from recognition at the level of funding, at the financial level, of our political-constitutional status. First of all, the express recognition of Galicia as a historical nationality, which has been translated into its political expression in the autonomy of a legislative character, but must also have a correlation in the field of finance and economic policy. There is no legislative autonomy, no self-organizational autonomy, no economic autonomy; that is, the ability to develop own economic policies, which requires a model of self-financing, sufficient and appropriate to political autonomy. There is no political autonomy without economic autonomy in order to develop its own policies. Therefore, any other circumstance in which the debate of our funding system is intended to involve is a mistake that we will not accept. We are therefore going to defend a system which enables us to make our own policies of an economic one, not only of a legislative one. This pre-constitutional declaration, which is not new, leads to the re-establishment of a framework that can either be around a federal estate or a farm in a decentralized unitary state. We believe that it is up to us to have a financing system according to the first, not the second. And since the State explicitly recognises, as I said before, the national character of Galicia and also recognises, in relation to certain territories, explicit economic sovereignty in relation, for example, to the Basque Country and Navarre, it is clear that only a lasting economic system or financing system can be established, which is therefore stable, and which also gives rise to the fulfilment of constitutional principles, if it is done in accordance with the principles of a federal Fair. That's why the system we stand for is that, and therefore we are going to vote against the joint proposal of PP and PSOE. The PSOE came here to say we're in front of a model that's better. It's not that it's better, it's replaceable, so it must be replaced. And the fact that it hasn't been done until now doesn't take off so we shouldn't have to do it now. If it's time to talk, if it's time to make a deal, let's do it, but let's not form a model of the existing status quo that is notoriously insufficient for us because it doesn't even meet constitutional expectations, without need of reform of any kind; it doesn't meet them. And that gives rise to the assertion here by both PP and PSOE that resources are not enough. They're insufficient. The model doesn't guarantee enough, they just recognized it both. And if it doesn't guarantee enough, it doesn't guarantee autonomy; neither financial autonomy nor political autonomy in our country. Therefore, for us it is unacceptable in all terms. And we don't have enough zero. More people have said it here, too, but we want to be consistent with that and establish a new funding system. And because we're not worth it, we know that the only way to reach an agreement is to provide more funds, more resources, resources that the State has so far denied us. The State continues to say: There is this part for all of you; share as you wish, in that Conference of Presidents. We say, no. We also want to open up an increase in capacity both at the normative level and at the collection level, as well as ultimately at the level of sufficient resources that we lack and that has the state locked down. And we're not worth that system. So we don't bet on any of the systems agreed here between the People's Party and the Socialist Party. We agree on some starting points, indeed. There is a resource problem. But we must be concerned about increasing the resources of the system by means of fiscal reform, without the Spanish State or its different territories being able to become a tax haven that ends with the State of welfare that exists. It is necessary to comply with the purposes for which we are endowed with autonomy as a people, and to fulfil certain purposes of guaranteeing fundamental rights and guaranteeing social rights, for which we need sufficient funding. That must therefore be the parameter guide for that reform: ensuring resource-sufficiency; ensuring a single income so that we can develop these kinds of policies. Secondly, it is not enough for us that the criteria formulated to be resource efficient management. It's necessary, but it's not enough, because political autonomy is not administrative autonomy. Galicia is neither a municipality nor a provincial deputy, so we cannot aspire alone and solely to manage those powers that we have transferred with the money that they give us. We want to be able to make our own policies, of an economic nature, which is another matter of political autonomy and of legislative autonomy. It's not worth the statement of principles, the declaration of rights on paper, if we then have no financial capacity to carry them into practice. And that's what we want with our funding system; with the alternative funding system that you propose. For us this is therefore quite insufficient, and we will vote against it. We cannot reduce the level of the debate of the new financing system simply to an emphasis on more or less factors in relation to the need for expenditure. We have to set a higher level, according to the height of the Constitutional Juridical Statute of what we are talking about, and what is our country's position on this. And I'll be done. The new model of funding for Galicia must effectively discuss at parliamentary level the resources allocated to the welfare state, ensuring that the principles collected in the statute and the dogmatic part of the Constitution, which has been emptied of content in recent years with the excuse for the crisis, and that we are not good enough to continue to establish policies like this. Secondly, to discuss between all the territories — but not imposed from the state's point of view — we want an equal debate on what kind of solidarity we want to implement. Thirdly, we want to be able to discuss the degree of autonomy and the degree of fiscal sovereignty. And we also want to discuss what are the margins of such sovereignty to prevent a process of decapitalization and a process of tax dumping with low-level competences, with a kind of neoliberal policies that prevent us from having enough income to be able to make policies of redistribution of income and wealth and, therefore, economic policies that are based on and which have as a frontispic the improvement of the well-being of our citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u127	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Author group of the motion, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u128	I am not surprised at the position of the BNG, because it corresponds to what they are defending — let us say — these days. The truth is, I think the model they propose is prejudicial to Galicia and it means sacrificing Galician interests on the altar of its ideology. We can discuss the interpretations, but we must not discuss the data. And the data tells us exactly that, and from then on, we should reason and try to reach an agreement between all of us. But the worst thing is to assume that model would mean to be out of the real debate and to be waiting for the promises of an absolutely uncertain future to come. And we, of course, are not going into that position. I'm a little bit surprised at the position of En Marea. I know there's difficulty matching us and PP, though they might want to do it if the BNG is out. And that's what's behind your position. But if you do, it turns out that when they talk about fiscal federalism they don't realize that Spanish is already a model of fiscal federalism; that the system of autonomous communities we have, in which, by the way, autonomous communities have more competence than others, and those that are unique to Galicia have separate funding, as it corresponds, does not exactly go along the way of the model. So heterogeneous competences, heterogeneous funding, that already exists, that already exists. But to this model of autonomous communities, the model of self-financing rightly fits perfectly, and to Galicia's interests. And by a political issue, by a question of not matching other political groups, because you are in a position that is contrary to Galicia's interests. We should be able, quite rightly, to guarantee enough, to support enough. Do you know what the second point of our proposal says? "Ensuring the adequacy of autonomous communities in the provision of services, ensuring that, at the end of the first five-year period of supervision, the autonomous communities of common regime can achieve, with the resources of models, the average proportion of expenditure of the countries of the European Union in health, education and social policy." That's what they're voting against. And they're voting against the fact that autonomous communities can participate in decisions on EVV. And they are voting against moving forward in the transformation of taxes handed down into their own taxes. If you want more autonomy, that's how you do it, and that's in our proposal. So they're voting against all this. And I'm going to spend half a minute, which is what I have, just telling the People's Party that, at last, the Conference of Presidents has done its part, but we're at another point. In those days of Valencia, the Valencian expert placed the claim in 16 billion, so the autonomous communities are already in it. The question we have to choose is whether we want to participate in that debate as well and put a figure on the table that is realistic, whether it is possible or not. And that's your responsibility As for the amendments, we are prepared to try to deal with those that do not affect the first point, and trade the rest, and try to reach an agreement as long as we have until the debate and the vote on motions in the afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u129	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. We suspended the session until four and a quarter, 16:15; medium term that doesn't harm anyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u130	Good afternoon. We start the session and we resume item 2 of the agenda, which is that of appearances. Mr Vivenda's comparator of Infrastructure and Living, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u131	For this you have the word of the Infrastructure and Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u132	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I would like to compare today, my own request, to take account of the general lines of action of the Infrastructure and Housing Council in this X legislation — for the four years ahead — and to outline the main measures and programmes that we are planning to move forward at this new stage, a new stage in which we are beginning to overcome the effects of the economic crisis and which we trust is marked by the gradual recovery and increase of economic activity and employment. In the years that we in the board face new challenges and more resources: it is EUR 390 million for the 2017 budget, therefore an increase of 5%, and resources that we want to manage rigorously, seriously and with responsibility to achieve maximum social profitability, with a double objective that we have been working with for years: to increase the quality of life of the Greeks and also to contribute to economic progress. Two of those who led the council's action over the past years — it's a policy for people and for the drive of economic competitiveness — two pillars that will also be the work of the future. Priority to all those measures, therefore, more urgent from the social point of view and, also, more profitable and efficient. Managing with responsibility and doing more with less is what we learned during this whole stage of the economic crisis, and now we are checking a cycle change that I think is already unquestionable; therefore, in terms of public management, and with the greatest respect to those who continue to suffer the effects of the economic crisis, I think I can say that — after a long period of suffocation — it begins to run the breeze. So that line that we have marked, we have budgets, and they were approved yesterday, we have Law of Measures and Accounts for the Infrastructure and Living Council this year 2017 of 390 million euros marked with a social character, because budgetary efforts are dedicated to housing and mobility; therefore, two subjects that guarantee the quality of life of the Greeks. In the housing environment is where we're going to focus, in programs aimed at facilitating access to housing, to people and families with greater difficulties, measures to combat evictions, to put all means to counter homelessness and exclusion. So real solutions to real problems with programs that we've started, but also with new programs. And within the programmes that we have in place, we have the 12 measures to combat evictions, which have allowed us to care for about 1,150 families; families like 264 families who have paid the rental bonus of the Galician Union; by the way, the rental bonus we have just published, extending the deadline and, also, extending the beneficiaries. New actions that we also plan to implement in the wake of housing, always seeking the collaboration of all the agents involved: administrations, political parties, social entities and society in general. Solutions that we consider, of course, must be accompanied by the path of collaboration, to sum up efforts, and therefore this same year we will also create the housing observatory; the housing observatory as an instrument that facilitates access to information, that serves as a support for decision making, that directs housing policy actions and reflects the reality of housing in Galicia. Another important measure in the area of housing, and novice, is the Re-allocate Program, a program that complements the Empty Housing Program, a help that will be given to the owner who undertakes to incorporate his housing into the Empty Housing Program; a program that I remind you of is a pioneering social initiative in Spain, whose objective is to move from a set of unoccupied housing to a social housing stock exchange, from which 32 municipalities of Galicia already form part of different political colours, Ourense and Santiago, for example, and of course I would like the rest of the major cities to also be incorporated, because 7 municipalities already have the program operating and already have incorporated housing. The programme therefore re-alerts that it is to reduce the number of unemployed, in poor condition, and therefore to respond to housing needs by boosting a fundamental piar — which will be in this legislation — that will be rehabilitation. We therefore want to bet on rehabilitation as an efficient measure, as a sustainable measure and in the future, to respond to housing needs, because they have a direct impact on improving the living conditions of the inhabitants of the areas and neighbourhoods where we want to promote rehabilitation. It has added value, therefore, to recover that built heritage and revitalize those peoples, those nuclei, those neighborhoods of the Italian countryside. Besides acting, too, of course, as a dynamizing factor. We need to know that rehabilitation is the occupation that most jobs generate per euro invested. They're all scheduled programs in Plan RehaVita 2015-2020, and already in that program we gave you important role in rehabilitation in 4 axes, and it will therefore also be a fundamental axis in these four years. Our goal is to continue promoting existing rehabilitation aids, but also new tips: activating new lines like power efficiency aids. We have already published the call for councils that can carry out this type of action, with half a million euros, and we will soon promote new energy efficiency works in the public promotion homes of the Galician Union, 3.3 million euros, and also a new program to rehabilitate the old homes of the masters. Another measure, too, of rehabilitation is the Cooperation Fund, EUR 10 million which will be used for interest-free loans, interest-free loans, for municipalities of less than 50,000 inhabitants, to recover those buildings from their historic helmets and which can perform any kind of rehabilitation intervention in housing. It's also a non-interested loan program for individuals, so that they also carry out renovations of their homes, and we'll make a clear bet for direct rehabilitation as well. Direct rehabilitation through a new program, the Reurbian Programme, where we will concentrate on the rehabilitation works that will be carried out directly at Junta de Galicia. In this programme, what we are planning is to set up the Regurbe centres, which will be workshops to boost rehabilitation in those areas that we want to revitalize. We'll have examples and we'll deal with performances in Betanzos in the near future and, of course, in Lugo, Ourense and Mondoñedo, with more immediate actions. Special mention, too, I believe that you should have the new law of historical helmets in which we are working — it will be the first law of these characteristics in Galicia — that we intend to be a mechanism to facilitate the recovery and rehabilitation of the ancient nuclei, cities and cities of Greece. So we have a clear roadmap on housing, and especially to strengthen rehabilitation for access to housing. Of course, we will also bet on the increase in our housing park, they are more than 3,100 homes owned by the Galego de Vivenda Institute and Solo for rent, and we want to have more public housing, to restore social reality, and therefore we do not forget the promotion of residential soil: the Ofimatic Park and also San Paio de Navia, Ofimatic Park in Coruña and San Paio de Navia in Vigo. In San Paio de Navia we made a few years ago, last year, we started the public offer of land acquisition, 10 million euros of mutual agreement to get land in San Paio de Navia and start urbanizing. Finally, at the Galician Summit we promote a policy of housing aimed at improving and preserving the built heritage, a policy of housing for people and improving the living conditions of the Greeks. Another line of action that will also influence the quality of life of the Greeks, of course, will be the improvement of mobility. The improvement of mobility we will encourage it with different programs that we will put in place — some of which are already in place — with new services and new infrastructures, which will boost the movement by foot or by bicycle, thus placing an alternative mobility. Public transport. Public transport will, in fact, occupy much of the work of the Housing Infrastructure Council in this legislature. We want the Greeks to have competitive public transport, efficient public transport, which responds to the demands and needs of our neighbours' displacements, so we are already addressing the new reorganization and planning of the public transport system of road passengers in Galicia, to improve a matter in which there is still, of course, much to do, a long way to go, and what we want is to guarantee better territorial coverage of road transport in rural areas, with the incorporation of reservation systems, with the incorporation of transport on demand, thus offering a modern, efficient and quality service. So we're talking about updating the regular bus transport system, adapted to the current reality, because many of the services that are being provided today are based on regular transport concessions that have been imposed at different times in the 20th century, and they haven't really adapted to Galicia's rate of social and territorial transformation. So the end of the concessions we have to see, and we're looking at it, as an opportunity to intensely restructure the new road transport service map in Galicia. And we're already allocating EUR 2.5 million for the reformulation of that map, we've already begun to develop the first jobs, we've started the first studies, a new service map in six territorial areas of Galicia; we've convened meetings with all the Greek municipalities, to inform them of the entire first-hand process and transfer them the commitment and roadmap of the Galician Union to implement this new service map, the first phase in August 2017. In the near future, we will continue to work on the progressive introduction of new solutions, the definitive implementation of demand transport, which we want to see being implemented at the end of 2019, where we will implement and approve Galicia's new public transport plan, with new services and new technologies. Finally, we're working, we're working so that this is the reordinating legislation of all road transport in Galicia. You serve demand, to give maximum coverage in the countryside and to take the bus wherever you need it, to the place where you need it. And, in parallel, we're also still betting on making it easier and, of course, ruining the bus ticket, bus trips by the Greeks. There is the Metropolitan Transport Plan, a genuine social transport plan, which works in 5 areas, and 65 municipalities are joined. Therefore, more than half of the population in this metropolitan transport plan, a social transport plan that allows users to save up to 600 euros a year, which can even reach up to 1,000 euros in the case of those users who usually use the urban bus. By giving them a point of relevance, the Metropolitan Transport Plan in 2006 allowed 14 million trips — tickets — in Galicia, in the Coruña, Ferrol, Lugo, Santiago and Vigo; hence an increase of 9% compared to the previous year. This social transport plan strengthens it with the New People's Card, so that the under-nine-year-olds can use interurban metropolitan transport for free, and since you've had great welcome to that new people's card, it's already over 33,000 under-nine years old who already have the new people's card. Far from conforming to what has already been done, we will continue to bet on expanding this model, extending the benefits of metropolitan transport plans to Ourense, Pontevedra. Of course, it's also expanding more municipalities and coordinating this new metropolitan transport plan to redefine the transport map we're working on. So of course we will continue to work for the Vigo Town Hall to finally join the Vigo Metropolitan Transport Plan. That urban transport be incorporated, because this will make its incorporation effective, and it will be effective for Vigo's neighbours and the entire Vigo area to have the same opportunities and the same first metropolitan transport that the neighbours have, for example, the Coruña. I don't want to forget another line, another initiative by the Galician Council — which is a public transport bet — is the bus accessibility plan at the center of the city of Coruña. We want to have it implemented this spring, we're working for it to be so, and once we've finished these performances of about 100,000 euros at different stops in the center of the Coruña. An accessibility plan that we want to implement in a dialogue, consensus, and that's why we're taking it back to public information to introduce the approaches that the municipalities consider, as well as the transport companies. It's an initiative where we want to optimize public transport, give benefits to the user and therefore avoid transhipment, also reduce travel time and avoid stopping at bus stations. We are therefore convinced that all these transport measures will undergo a revolution in the transport of interurban lines by improving transport effectively and, of course, more attractive. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we all know -- and I think we all think -- that the different means of transport don't have to compete with each other, they have to complement each other. And that's why an initiative we want to ensure, and in what we're working on, is at the intermodal stations: these transport nodes that guarantee quality transport and also a simple connection of the different modes of transport. These are matters that the president of the Union himself spoke about and dealt with with the Ministry of Development, with the Minister of Development, where important agreements have been reached: making the joint urban processing of railway stations, bus stations integrated into a single project, and hence joint urban processing. And so this very week, in fact yesterday, we started the procedure for Vigo intermodal, the procedure by Law 3/2016, the law expressed to resolve the joint urban processing of Vigo intermodal. And next week we will have the first meetings of the follow-up commission to move forward also in the intermodals of Ourense and Santiago. We hope, too, to be able to close the agreement with the Crown and, in parallel, to continue working, as we are working, at the rest of the intermodal stations of the rest of the Greek cities. Efficient, useful intermodals adapted to the needs of the Greeks, and the forecast we have is that this same year we can bid the first stages, the bus stations integrated in the railway stations of Vigo, Santiago and Ourense stations. For that, of course, the collaboration of the councils is essential, because we are talking about projects that require collective effort from the three administrations involved: the Council of Galicia, the Councils and also the Ministry of Development. In our opinion — I believe that in everyone's opinion — intermodality is the transport of the future, therefore, it is essential to adapt the stations to the arrival of the high-speed train. The Ministry of Development, as you know, committed last Tuesday to the Chair of the Board to work on the completion of the AVE with the highest speed. The minister transferred a date of the arrival of the AVE which confirms that the political blockade suffered in the state had consequences and had consequences. They know that the date the minister set was the third trimester of 2019, we appreciate the realization and transparency for that new date, and that they work everywhere to prevent the effects of paralysis and political blockade from affecting the arrival of the AVE. We also welcome the commitment of the Minister of Development to come to Galicia every three months to monitor the work under way, and we therefore thank the Minister for that commitment. And that will also with renewed commitment to other actions, such as the railway improvement to Lugo, as well as the railway improvement to Ferrol — which was a matter we dealt with — and also with the variant of Ourense and with the variant of Sardinian. We will be vigilant and vigilant about these renewed commitments. And the important thing, of course, is when the AVE comes, but for us it's not only so important when the AVE comes, but how, even more important, I think it's how it comes. So we'll be watching as soon as the AVE arrives and as it arrives, it arrives as soon as possible and safely. And since we're talking about infrastructure that benefits all the Greeks, I think we're also talking about last week's meeting, we're confirming the government's interest in Galicia's decision-making decision-making on AP-9. And that bilateral commission will therefore meet for the first time in February, so it will be this February month, and the first meeting will be this February month. Therefore, a new stage is opened in the management of this strategic infrastructure, and it will have an effect — I would say — immediately: the assumption by the Ministry of Development of all the benefits of the beaches O Morrazo and La Barcala. It was 180 million euros that from here until 2048, as a result of that Bipartite agreement, had to pay them the pocket of all the Greeks. Well soon they won't pay the Greeks any more, as was provided for in the Bipartite Convention. In the German Government we do not forget the arrival of the AVE, which will entail a transformation, of course, in air transport; it will substantially affect the arrival of the AVE in air transport, so we must work for greater coordination in airport management. The truth is that you cannot coordinate with those who do not want to coordinate, much less if you do not have skills, and much less if you do not transfer the information requested from the municipalities as to the subsidies that each municipality makes to private airlines. We bet on an agreement between municipalities, a strong and competitive airport system. And the model to follow for the Galician Union, of course, is the promotion of tourism in all its aspects: industrial tourism, sustainable tourism, cultural tourism. And, of course, we don't bet on paying public money to private airlines, because the more passengers come to Galicia, the more competitive the airport system will be, and therefore the airlines will lower their prices. And the more passengers come to Galicia, since of course more economic development to Galicia. So that's our bet, our model: the promotion of tourism in all its aspects. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the mobility advisor's programs, which also involve the development of the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan. We're talking about green infrastructure. Green infrastructures are pedestrian and cyclist agendas that are intended to encourage the different modes of clean and environmentally sound transport. Mr Bará in the morning spoke of alternative mobility for climate change. Mr Bará, here we have the Galician Roadmap, which bets for alternative, safe, sustainable and healthy mobility. Healthy habits are what the Galician Roadmap responds to, which foresees the execution of 170 kilometers of new safe, sustainable and integrated paths in the landscape in Galicia. This year we will spend more than EUR 10.5 million, which will entail an important boost to the development of these roadmaps, these planned works. The first phase knows that there are 55 tracks in seven districts: Vigo, O Salnés, Santiago, A Coruña, Bergantiños, Ferrol and Terra Chá. We started the processing and execution of the 39 kilometers, and today they are being bided and in works 23 kilometers and 9.2 million euros. And we will continue to move forward with the second phase of the plan, which is 49 itineraries, 45 kilometers, in the districts of Lugo, Ourense, The Morrazo and Pontevedra. The forecast is to have the construction projects of this second phase this year to move forward in the bidding. And in our commitment to green infrastructure, to the promotion of tourism, there is an important line of action that we are carrying out in this council — with the perspective and with the view placed on the Year of Xacobeo, in the year 2021 — the improvement of the landscape integration of the streets of Santiago. At the entrance, in the city of Compostela enhance the current opportunities and values of the paths of Santiago to achieve the excellence of the pilgrim's experience. A pioneering initiative in which the Galician Union will invest 4.2 million euros. We are working together with the Town Hall of Santiago, and I hope that in the next few days we can sign that agreement that we have already agreed on at the Council of the Union and that this year — this quarter, that may be — we can move forward in drafting the construction projects, which are mainly given on the French, English and Portuguese roads. In our pursuit also to equip citizens with more comfortable and safer roads, giving priority to road safety, our planning is also continuing with the 2017 signing reinforcement plan, which is being launched and which also involves the development of the 2016-2020 Road Safety Plan. We've already started a campaign for this 2017 firm reinforcement plan, with a share of 15.5 million euros, which will allow us to act in about 700 kilometers of autonomic pathways. Next week we will bid the first works: three improvements with 2.3 million euros, on the following dates we will continue to bid the different projects planned in this 2017 Firm Reinforcement Plan. Of course, we will also put special emphasis on the vertebration of the territory, equal opportunities and improvement of Galicia's competitiveness, after fulfilling our goal that 80% of the population is less than 15 kilometres from a high-performance route. This is because since 2009 we have increased the high-performance pathways in full economic crisis by 66% with 210 new kilometres of high-speed routes free of charge. We will continue to develop new axes and those most urgent actions, with greater benefits and greater social and economic profitability. For example, I can tell you about the Morrazo bus, the largest infrastructure that would travel to the present day by the Galician Union, EUR 55 million: 2017 annuality, EUR 22 million, and will be fully implemented this year. The Ártabra channel, in the Coruña area, will also advance its connection with AP-9. And tomorrow we're going to start the public information process of this AP-9 track connection project and you can check this government's bet because it's a free highway. And we'll also move forward, soon enough, in the conversion of VAC Nadela-Sarria bus. This same week we will bid the drafting of the construction project for that first phase, to unlock the Nadela-Sarria highway between the links of poor San Xiao and downtown Sarria. And then, in the next few weeks, of course, we're going to continue to vertebrate other districts of Galicia like, for example, Bergantiños, Fisterra and Soneira, with the bidding, too, of the constructive project of the Highway of the Coast of Death. So these are some examples of the lines of communication that will immediately see results. If the channels of communication are an essential element of competitiveness, the provision of business soil in advantageous conditions also means an increase in economic activity, economic dynamism, thus generating employment and wealth in Galicia. In 2015 we set up an incentive plan, a bonus plan of up to 50% in the business parks of Xestur. We have been charged 730,000 square meters of business soil since the start of this plan, which is supposed to exceed about 20% of the sold jointly in the years 2007 and 2008, therefore in years prior to the crisis; which has led to an investment induced in those three years of 400 million euros and more than 10,000 jobs. We will continue these incentives of up to 50% in business parks and continue with pioneering formulas, such as surface rights. They know that it is a symbolic canon with right to purchase to facilitate the implementation of new industrial projects in Galicia, therefore, to offer facilities and to continue making available to entrepreneurs only affordable of quality — the goal is to generate employment, generate wealth. And also in this legislation, we will also create the business soil observatory, which will allow us to evaluate the evolution of soil demand and adapt planning to the needs of different economic agents. So, too, something we're also betting on, which is a sustainable growth with sustainable growth criteria. We will also continue, of course, developing PLISAN, the completion of the works of the general systems this year and at competitive prices, which is how we want to market the soil of PLISAN, 50 square meters, the first 100,000 square meters, and of course also, with the formula of law and surface, that is, a symbolic cannon with right to purchase. And in the province of Coruña. In the province of Coruña too this year we will reactivate the polygon of Moras, 1.1 million square meters that has the polygon of Moras, 600,000 square meters were profitable plots, we will allocate 18 million euros to perform all external connections, including the access road with A-6 also to the electrical substation, and of course also at bonus prices and with surface right, that symbolic cannon with right to purchase. I'll be done by now. I don't want to finish without referring to the new responsibilities of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency. They know that the new Galaga Infrastructure Agency is taking on works from other departments, in fact it is already being commissioned to hire and run health centers and educational centers, and they have already started last year with the extension of Burela hospital. The objective is clear, that health professionals are dedicated to health care, that education professionals focus on achieving educational excellence and that the professionals of the public work, such as the staff of the Galaga Agency of Infrastructures, focus on carrying out the great public works of Junta de Galicia. I'm done, I've been trying to move and track down the central axes of the board these four years. Half an hour is not enough to talk about four years and new challenges for four years of a legislation on mobility, transport, infrastructure, business soil and housing. In the next speeches I will try to deepen more, clarify, or concretely complete some questions that you want me to move on. So, for my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u133	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u134	Good afternoon, Counselor. I don't know if it's time, but the truth is, I thought it was a rather flat speech with little news. The environmental advisor in the morning showed here a lot of plans and strategies. You bring little news, you speak of some observatory that you intend to create for this mandate, but I think it's a proposal, of course, not ambitious. Indeed, we are talking about the importance of, for example, mobility policies and mobility alternatives to fight climate change, what we regret is that you act as stable compartments, that have so little permeability between the different councils and that you do not coordinate and cooperate more with each other to develop those ambitious and transformative policies that the country needs, also in the field of mobility. You talked about public transport by road, and I have to tell you that it's still a pending subject. And you with your intervention what you've come to recognize here is that you've been with your arms crossed for five years; that is, they've been sweeping under the carpet for five years, letting the subject pass, and now they come with improvised measures, with patches. They've just passed a law of urgent measures, the word itself says: urgent measures, when they knew for five or six years that this situation was going to happen. And in its accompanying Law itself, in Title III, they also put the management of the regular public transport system of travellers. They have — we have been obliged after all this time to comply with a Supreme Court ruling which annuls these extensions of concessions — to deal with, in some ways, the resolution of that cambalache when they extended the concessions by placing on the same lot school transport and public road transport. And now, of course, you have to sell it somehow, and then present this situation to us as an opportunity. Well, I don't know, you have to... Actually, you didn't tell us what you're planning to do when the summer is over to find a solution to all these concessions that companies have already said they'd give up on the next loan. I don't know what plans you have to solve this situation, especially it will harm the interior areas, the small municipalities, the villages of the country, which will be left without these concessions, which are absolutely defective and which concessionary companies are not willing to lend in these conditions. Well, you, with this announcement that you've made a plan and a new opportunity, a transport revolution, what you're trying to do is make time, you're going to do these studies, and what you're really preparing is the ground for the monopoly of big companies, to put an end to this whole fabric, with that whole network of small transport companies in the country, and to hand over the concessions of public road transport to big companies. What they're going to do is end up, it's going to have a negative impact because they're going to end that social function, also of economic dynamisation, of job creation that lends all these companies that we have in the country. As far as transport to demand is concerned, he did not announce and advance anything, simply the announcement that in 2019 we are going to have this transport revolution. I ask you, too, to work on this subject and seek solutions, but you don't have to wait four years to have them. And you talked about the metropolitan transport, I want to quote here the theme of Vigo, logically, because you are using this topic of the metropolitan transport of Vigo as a daring weapon, how to oppose Vigo and its metropolitan area, to paralyze Vigo's metropolitan area, when this topic could have a solution through dialogue, through negotiation, through agreement, or, if you want, through litigation, but you cannot use this theme to stop, to paralyze, to boycott, to put a veto on it, to make opposition to other administrations, as you are doing. If they have differences of interpretation of that agreement, clarify it either through dialogue or through litigation, but do not use this theme to paralyze the metropolitan area. He also told us about the intermodal stations, another classic, he didn't shed much light on how they're going to solve all the serious problems that these infrastructures have in cities. You talked about the processing of the law deliberately, didn't you? It is a joint urban process, but here there are serious difficulties and serious problems, too, of coordination between administrations, and I have to remind you, moreover, that you — until the end of 2015 – announced the start of the works of the Vigo intermodal in 2016, and we are still waiting for the Ministry of Development to come to an agreement, you and the Vigo Town Hall on how they will solve both the AVE station, and the bus station, these intermodal stations, and so I think there are some rare things that are being negotiated, and some ballacing or trying to promote private interests, setting up a trade macrocentre in the centre of Vigo, competing with local trade; but this is the policy that you practice with regard to trade. He didn't talk about the towns because in Galicia there will be more bus stations than the intermodal stations in the big cities. I suppose they'll have some plans, too, some forecasts, because what we see there is a quote, of course, that leaves much to be desired. Well, from the railway we miss — part of putting the blame on the employer, the others, because you have no responsibility for anything, the blame is for the political blockade in 2016 — which doesn't say why they executed 40% or less of the investments planned in 2015; then there was no political blockade, you were ruling in Madrid, and they were ruling in Galicia, and it turns out that they didn't run much of the planned infrastructure. So there were delays, there were delays, there were non-compliances, there were unfulfilled promises throughout all these years that you were ruling in Madrid and here, and you were silent all this time, they shut up, they gave up and they accepted the policies that were developing in this regard. I miss you, by the way, that you didn't talk about the surrounding railway, I suppose you disagree on this issue, that you have no expectation of really developing it from the German Government, or of demanding the State Government to develop that surrounding railway, which is a tool, of course, necessary to have a quality public transport and this century, as you like to say. Well, with regard to the road network of conventional and high-capacity roads, of course, we defend an alternative mobility model, especially with regard to the conventional network. You bet on large infrastructures, on high-capacity roads, and we think that much more attention needs to be paid to conventional pathways, and, of course, we have to start with the assumption of competences by the German Government in road, road traffic and road safety; it is essential to have those instruments in order to really manage all that policy. Also working on cooperation between administrations by making a mobility pact, because — as you have already said on previous occasions — there are more than 17,000 kilometres of roads in the country and, of course, the Galician Union is not the holder of most of them; therefore, you must articulate a joint policy, you must lead a mobility policy, a sustainable, safe and healthy mobility, prioritising, in addition, those actions that have to do with conservation and maintenance, with the improvement of road safety, with calm traffic and with these alternatives of healthy mobility. And you came here to present us with the Green Path Plan, but it really seems to us that it is an ambitious policy, which is a very timid policy. Of course, it looks good to us, but it's not going to be solved or an alternative mobility policy, safe mobility policy, with performances as you announced here in 170 kilometers. Of course, it seems to us that it is little, they must aspire to more and they must aspire to a restructuring, reorganization and reorganization of the entire road network, and not only these partial actions in certain sections of the roads, which are often not even connected to the rest of the road network. Finally, with regard to housing policy, some ideas so fast. I believe that you practice a policy of palliative care, of patches, which address certain situations that are dramatic situations, but do not act with foresight, do not act with planning and with an integral policy in this matter. We believe that action must be taken in a number of areas. Of course, with policy changes, with legislative changes to make a different housing policy, with public intervention in the area of housing, because it's a basic right to citizenship. Of course, we have to aspire to the public sector to have a greater intervention in this area, mainly in order to mobilize the empty housing, to allocate it to rent, especially the empty housing that is in the hands of the large bank of financial speculation, which was the one that took advantage of all this crisis situation that we have been or that we are suffering. In the area of public housing, we also need to promote more public housing construction, and you have also announced measures on rehabilitation, and of course we welcome it, but it seems to us that budgets, for example, in 2017 will give little of you for a new rehabilitation policy. And, with regard to business soil, of course, he told us here about PLSAN, which is the story of never ending. You're going to blame the Bipartite after eight years of ruling in a row, are you going to blame the Bipartite? But the reality is that PLISAN is what it is, they have been eight years without being able to get ahead of this business ground, which is fundamental for the development of the entire southern area of Pontevedra province, and the Vigo area, and which, in addition, is already coming too late, because we are seeing how it is producing systematically, due to this shortage, the beauty of the business soil in this area... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u135	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u136	...or the relocation of automotive companies to the north of Portugal, due to lack of capacity to attract new projects, due to lack of strategic vision, due to lack of promotion of that enterprise sole. So, in short, Madam Counsellor, from BNG we defend and propose, of course, another mobility, a sustainable, healthy and safe mobility, another housing policy, an active and proactive policy, not a reactive policy, such as yours, a social policy and equity policy. And these measures are, of course, to exercise fully the powers that we have to have as a government and as a country in the area of roads, in the area of nearby railways, for example, in the area of AP-9, too, that we must continue to demand this competence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u137	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u138	...planting the government of the state to demand that these infrastructures be done in time and form, and to plant them in the face of the powerful and the bank to end this situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u139	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u140	...for example, in the area of housing. Therefore, ambitious policies, courageous policies and policies with leadership and country ambition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u141	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today, Counsellor, he came to expose the general lines of his counseling for this legislation, and we heard it with interest, of course. What do you want me to say? That's a lot of iron for so little pandelet. [[Applause]] What you came here today is a policy of palliatives, Mr. Bará said. And maybe that kind of policy serves for a year, maybe for two, but we've been like this for the last eight years and thirty-six of the Autonomy. And Galicia is no longer to address shortcomings, it is to push and recover forcefully. With regard to housing policy, we see the lack of priority given by this government to promoting public housing. The offer of 104 dwellings as a target this year seems, at least, anecdotal and lack of ambition. On the other hand, despite the alleged promotion and increased support for rehabilitation policies, there has been insufficient execution in recent years of budgeted shares due to the low aid allocation, making us unbelievable about the viability of the proposed measures and even the justification for the ineffective existence of the IGVS. You have made your bet clear for the rent, for the rehabilitation, and for encouraging the creation of an empty housing park that will be put into rent arrangements for all the Greeks and Greeks. From a social policy point of view, whatever measures they take towards access to housing seems to us to be all right, of course. Another thing is that we don't think that by making a lot of plans these are coming to more people. What they're doing is dissociating in miniplans the money that this board has to offer. 104 dwellings is the target precarious for 2017, I repeat, Counsellor. There's a download of applicants for public housing in the community, so they say. Does this justify the slightest investment in this direction by your advisor? Absolutely not. You know why? Because according to data from 2012 the reality is that the houses of official protection in cities such as Lugo, Ferrol, Pontevedra and Ourense had higher prices than those of the free market. And this happened in many other villages, such as Vilagaría, Narón, Carballo, Artexo or Round it up. What was the attitude of this council? Minimize the impulse of the new home. In our understanding, the price drop in the housing of the free market indicates nothing more than poor public planning. It is the responsibility of the Union to encourage the supply of public housing to be more competitive, if not, indeed, something is failing. Because, besides, let's not be mistaken, the fact that free housing had fallen at prices doesn't mean that these homes are accessible to many Greeks and Greeks. You speak of 78 million euros planned for the period 2015-2020 for the creation of public and protected housing, but this year we only see 3 million. The reality is that we doubt that considering the level of execution of previous years' games, with a 63% compliance percentage, these 104 dwellings are a reality. Do you know how many houses of official protection were built in 2015 according to IGE data? Only 2, of 7,931 built throughout Spain, in Galicia were 2, the 0.025%. With these figures Galicia has won the sad privilege of being on the tail of all Spain. In 2014 there were 15,523 family units registered in the register as claimers of protected housing. If since that year only 44 -- data from the IGE, which I don't make up, of course -- have been built, what option is left for the remaining 15,479 families? We're in 2017, ten years have passed since the most critical moment of the crisis and the explosion of the real estate bubble, and although we might think that the prices have fallen since 2007, the reality is that while in the year 2000, the Welsh and Germans allocated 36.2% of their wages to the purchase of housing, today it is 50.3%. These figures speak of the loss of purchasing power from the Greeks and the Greeks. And what do you do to reverse this? They talk about millions of dispositions, but they talk about what they're talking about, there's no housing available for an increasingly impoverished Greek society. Because they don't try to cover their inability to offer real solutions. In Plan RehaVita, you recognize the importance of the economic impact of public housing actions. And then they even talk about -- you've seen it yourself a moment ago -- that for every million euros of investment, 56 direct and indirect jobs are generated in the cases of rehabilitation works, compared to 35 jobs if it's a new job. I understand that this reinforces you in order to justify your wager's wager for the rental house. But they will allow me to disagree deeply in this reasoning. The 56 jobs justify us with a study of the Ministry of Development and the 35, however, speak of an estimate. Estimation of what? People can understand well that in a rehabilitation they can participate in crafts, perhaps carpenters, Albanians, electricians... but in a new work they come in, if not all, many more: engrossers, ferralists, calculators, topographers, crystallers, the furniture industry, and so on, a logo and so on. So don't deceive people about their political motivations, make plans like RehaVita, but don't rely on false concepts. Be frank, be frank with the Galicians and the Greeks. This joint bet on rehabilitation and rent, because you understand it's an assumed patch for the current situation. And why do I say patch? Because at this time they've shown that they don't want or have the ability to boost new housing, either for their use in tents or for their renting. Because the budgets and the results of their executions are theirs and there you can't fool anyone. But since in this House the word "understanding" is always in everyone's mouth, and we were still being criticized in this House yesterday for our little willingness to hold hands, there's a proposal for collaboration with you on a topic that we understand talks about looking to the future and which is on the horizon of the housing policy. We understand that models are changing, that the concept of family, geographic mobility, requires new types of housing. But the reality is that current regulations make it difficult for them to be created. Small-scale housing to support the recovery of rural, new multi-family buildings that favor cohabitation, the so-called colliving for older people who can find in these new alternative formulas to the residences of old people, diverse family units that find in living together a sustainable way to live. We therefore call on the Council to work in this direction and to be its own advisor, who favours the creation of public housing that promotes cohabitation and to be an example for the private sector. As far as infrastructure policy is concerned, frankly, Mrs Vázquez, we are tired of speeches, citizenship wants to see facts. Many roads are still waiting for their completion, with partial tranches executed only partly and useless because of the lack of continuity of the realization. Where are the traps left for the high-capacity highway of Tui to the Guard? Does it make sense to have plans for them to be born and die on the conventional road? Do you think it is to receive the isolation to which the population of this geographic area is condemned? How long will they face their execution? When's the highway from the Death Coast? The Paradai de Lugo Plan? The extension of the high-performance route on the north coast? The highway from Celanova to Portugal? The first phase of the eastern round of Lugo? The break-up of the road from Pontevedra to Vilagarcia? The connection of the 120 Ourense National to the Trives Poor? These are just some of the big unfinished infrastructures, old commitments that we bring back to this House year after year. You have many duties, Counselor, and those are some of the infrastructures that one day started but they didn't finish, but for the ones we've been waiting for, and also for the entire network of variants of the major cities of Galicia, all without running. And we're talking about Aradas in Santiago, Carballo's, Valdovino's, Pontereas', Alba's in Pontevedra. Of all of them, indeed, we have promises, many promises, but, of course, until now all of them have failed. And you also tell us about programs like the firm reinforcement plan, I did it a few moments ago, you call it that, but for us it's just the realization that what it is, it's an obligation, to guarantee road safety, and for you this is a motive for propaganda. This plan, Counselor, is therefore not to boast, is to have done it already. We're talking about the safety of all road users, something that should be consistent with the obligations of this board. The opposition has long been warning us of the abandonment of the roads. There are studies that show that road quality is falling worryingly, with the result that there is an increase in paternality. With the creativity they show in their desire to create plans, I sincerely fear the announcement of this board of plans like "Founding roofs in housing", "Impulse of asphalts in the highways." Redundancy, Counselor, Redundancy. Counsellor, let's be serious, highlighting this kind of plan is to underestimate your own advice. What you're presenting here is nothing more than a technical question that will imply the maintenance of road networks. It really saves us moments like those lived in last Commission 2a, where the Director General, Mr. Menéndez, explaining the Roadmap, told us about technical issues, issues that talked about road typologies, varieties of gravels, compact soils, variants of widths depending on the steps... the saying, it told us about technical detail, but very little about commitment to the execution of projects. I've told you before: a lot of ferrets for so little pandelet. Here you can speak of the lines to be followed by this council, and such interventions as that of Mr. Menéndez waste time on everyone, and what is most important, on all the Greeks and to the Greeks. Nothing else for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u144	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. You always come out here and give us nice speeches. Today they speak of road safety, of sustainable mobility, of people who have suffered the most from the crisis, of social budgets, of fighting against evictions, of offering real solutions, of responding to housing needs, programs, plans, promises... However, their facts and speeches, when it comes to obtaining benefits for the majority of society, are not likely to be coincidentally, and today's promises almost always end up being tomorrow's defaults. They're done, it's the history of their political action, it's the socialization of bank losses that wouldn't cost any citizenship, they're weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, they're the plastic threads of the Prestige, it's the security of the Yak-42, it's the viability of the fusion of the Welsh boxes and the need for a hasty sale at the price of balance to Venezuelan oligarchies, they're Pemex contracts, it's going to be the AP-9 and it's also going to be the Alvia accident. I suppose you will be sympathetic to our absolute mistrust that they fulfill the content in their speeches and focus on the facts in the face of the parliamentary debate. We know that your promises are worthless, they are good for you, so that in the media your propaganda may appear, but for us you will understand that they are no more than to point out in the future the breaches of your speeches. Except for certain exceptions that they do, which we often disagree with as opposed to the common good, as is the issue of infrastructures and mobility their bet on high-capacity roads and private motor transport. Their commitment to this plan that each Welsh or Galician has less than 15 minutes access to a high-capacity route is a less secure, less sustainable, more polluting and more energy-dependent transport bet; the worst bets to ensure what the speeches contain: declarations of intentions, which demonstrate the absence of a country plan, of a future plan. You guys work with short-sighted plans. What this strategy is is very profitable for business-friendly friends. In infrastructure and mobility, attention should be focused on sustainability, rationality, road safety, reduced energy dependence and better service to citizens. And you know, as well as we do, that you can't get through the territory of the Galician high-capacity track and bet on the particular transport of the motor. To achieve these goals, you have to do the opposite of what you're doing, you have to bet on public transport, internally optimize rail, intermodality or pedestrian and cyclist routes. We need a Galicia connected internally and also with the rest of the world, optimizing our network of ports and airports to have a comprehensive and country policy, allowing our connection to the outside, internally optimizing the railway and whether AP-9 is at the service of general interest and not to the service of private interests. Galicia must face mobility policy taking into account two future challenges: climate change and energy dependence. The model you defend is that of moving in a private vehicle and fast-track, and on the railway, the AVE and connection to the Meseta without being able to offer a solution to the connection to northern Portugal, the proximity train, or the transport of goods on a level well below most European countries. The reduction of Galicia's energy dependence in a global context of fossil fuel depletion should be a fundamental objective. We'll have to explain, after ruling this country for so many years, why we don't have a proximity service or why the dismantling of the train in the countryside and the absence of a proper vertebration of the country through rail. We'll have to explain, too, why intermodal stations are a promise that never comes up. In 2009 they signed the Coruña and Compostela agreement to do the intermodals, and we're still waiting. Yesterday's promises are today's failures. You know that the Compostela and Coruña tides arrived at the government in 2015: bad alibi to blame them, as they do, for the inability of this government. They'll have to explain to us, too, why they either deceive the Greeks and the Greeks with AP-9 or you don't paint anything. Because you know, like us, that the Government of the State report is an insult to Galicia, you know that the calculation of the ransom cost resulting from multiplying the collection of fees in a year multiplied by the years of concession is an insult to intelligence. The argument that it is an infrastructure of general interest because it reaches the border with Portugal is an aggravation, when it is public and notorious that in identical circumstances have been transferred self-directed in Catalonia and in Basquedi. And what about the AVE, yesterday's promises are today's failures. You try to justify the failure of your last promise of the arrival of the AVE to Galicia in 2018 arguing that the works could not be executed during the year because the Government was in office. Bad alibi in Galicia, one cannot perform a work that is already approved, but, however, if they were able to give concessions to harmful companies in public domain space such as Ence and Reganosa. You have something to be able to do, and you better choose the arguments that hide your disabilities. We are also waiting for the Alvia accident investigation commission in the Galician Parliament to study the causes of the railway accident in Angrois, as well as to determine the safety conditions in the high-speed rail network in Galicia and determine the political responsibilities with regard to the Anrois accident. And they're still suspending, too, you in road safety. Galicia is of the state's communities with greater sinisterity, with greater deaths of pawns and cyclists. We will see how we are in the future, with these new proposals, we hope that they will help to improve this dramatic situation. With regard to housing, its policy is purely cosmetic and superficial, it does not attack the structure of a model that focuses on housing as a business and not as a right. There is no housing policy that guarantees the right to a decent home for all the Greeks and the Greeks, both legislation and budgets are insufficient to cope successfully with the solution to this tragedy that hundreds of families experience year after year. According to official data, evictions are still a problem of first magnitude and represent a figure in our country of about five daily evictions. The results show the inefficiencies and unwillingness of the Galician Union. The balance of the programmes for prevention and realisation of refugees is devastating, 250 realos in four years. And before that, there are minimal changes to the next exercise: there is no critical assessment of the results of policies applied in recent years and a very timid budget bet. Budget budgets of the Housing Rehabilitation Program are increased while the effort for the Housing Access Program is stagnated. The execution data of these programs and the decline in rehabilitation activity in these years are very obvious and rehabilitation actions — even in the dwellings owned by the Galician Union — shine because of their absence, as official IGE data shows a sudden decline since 2009. The guarantee of access to housing remains a matter pending in Galicia, a failure that is causing great suffering. Not only are the decisions taken not only aimed at finding a decent housing for all the citizens of Greece, but since the time of development policy, residential construction has been used as an economic engine and the city hall's funding front, and irregularly from games in municipal governments, with the consequences already known. However, despite having one of Europe's largest housing parks, the guarantee of access remains unresolved. The latest OECD report points out that Galicia has the most expensive housing in all developed countries in relation to existing wages. If you want to address the serious problem of housing, you don't promote the culture of property and promote the culture of rent, through social rent or the mechanisms associated with the land-right assignment, a fundamental question to achieve the satisfaction of constitutional law: the housing of broad layers of society. One goal that should be marked by the advisor is to reach the market share of the European Union's social rent that runs around 18%, far away from the 1% that we count at this time in Galicia. To comply with this right and start approaching that percentage, we have pointed to some of the measures that would be very effective, that seeing the results achieved during all these years of the People's Government we ask them to take into account. We need to increase budget allocations for housing access policy to reach the whole — and with the horizon of two legislates — quotas similar to the average effort of the major European countries, which is located at 2% of GDP. We must phase out, in a progressive manner, reductions and other tax or financial figures that encourage investment or access to housing through purchase for new applicants; return a policy framework that defines in which cases a housing is considered empty and the creation of a register of empty dwellings in each municipality; establish meaningful tax fees for empty dwellings, which will have to be progressive depending on the number of dwellings treasured by each owner, time of occupation of the immovables and surface. Significant increase in the allocation of resources in the tax agency intended to cover tax fraud affecting the real estate sector, the elimination of direct aid to owners and promoters, and the use of funds in other initiatives that facilitate access to housing and ensure their enjoyment by the most needy social groups, such as temporary or definitive expropriation of housing by financial institutions that carry out processes of defiance and housing for the refugees. I continue with the following statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u145	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u146	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor, good afternoon to all. First of all, thank you, Counsellor, for this attendance at your own request and, above all, in good time. In good time for those intentions of the Government and for wanting to face those challenges that we have to deal with in the coming years. I hear the opposition speak of a lack of novelty, it speaks of the opposition of continuity, for also, the truth, thanks for the continuity, Counsellor, because after two legislations that these policies are proving their benefits, and that they have just been referendumd again in one of the elections, because nothing more than thank you for continuing these policies. [[Applause]] And I'm going to give you -- because I see you like it -- thanks also for something else, Counselor, thank you for bringing here a program that meets the election program of the People's Party with which we win the election, because there are some of this opposition that you must believe you want to do the program of those who lose, which is what they want, but they don't do it that way where they rule, Mr. Cal, do you know how they already know the governments of the Tide? Those who don't meet the first line of the program, or the first line! And I take his words. Yesterday's promises of the Tide are today's failures of their governments. [[Applause]] At least let us fulfill our program. I'm sorry to disagree also with the global vision they have, no palliatives, no pandereta, PSOE lords. That's how you see politics, we don't see it that way; we see very serious policies, and it's global policies and general policies that we put in place, not pandemic and palliative policies, as they say. Policies for people, as much as they hurt them, and besides, policies that they need most, and social policies, especially in housing and public transport, and in a new mobility, because it is true that they not only used public transport, but told us, the Counsellor, other modes of mobility. And this is already beginning to be reflected in budgets, plus 5% are expansive, but also in policies of greater social impact. And Mrs. Pierres, of course, we can make an immense list of works, all you want, it's very easy to get here, but they come back to cheating, just as they did in the budgets, they cheat on the lonely, they put a huge list to be able to say in the cities and villages that they asked I don't know or that we reject such a fine, but they don't say where the money is coming from. You get the money from the Agency without telling where, or the commitments that are signed by the Bipartite with the concessions. At least let them pay for the concessions you signed when they ruled. As I told you, these policies, moreover, Counsellor, we especially like them because we believe they are in line with European policies. I was here to listen to the opposition people asking for new housing to be built, with the empty housing park we have, but instead their municipalities do not join the empty housing program of the council. All of Europe is working on the board, rehabilitation and empty housing, and you're proposing to build new housing. That's the policy they propose, and that's why I think they had the referendum they had in the polls. On housing issues, of course, come here to hear living things in municipalities that don't join the empty housing plan when you put the whole council... but, of course, when you see what the governments that represent the Socialist Party have done: the Vigo Town Hall, the biggest challenge of Galicia's rejections. Pontevedra, Mr Bará, are you a concelerator, in seventeen years how many public housing did Pontevedra Town Hall? Zero, that's housing policy, Mr. Bará. And already talking about the Tide, I'd like you to tell me a single measure, one measure, one good or bad, I'm the same! one, as good as bad. In the Coruña, in housing policy, I'm going to tell you that we're glad that here you're betting on rehabilitation, but by setting you an example of the Coruña, Mr. Cal, not only assume less than the previous PP government in rehabilitation, but in 2016 you just closed it with 3 million euros in non-executive rehabilitation, 3 million euros, that's the policy and that's what they didn't have or have to take out the order, because there were already files on the move and processed. That's the policy they're defending. Of course, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, the only thing that has been rehabilitated in the Coruña was the Order of Works for the Okupas friends with public money, so they're more comfortable; fixing the chalet to the people of the Okupas is a privatization of public equipment, not what they were talking about this morning. But, well, if there's anything I really would like to underline from the presentation, it's the theme of mobility and transport. It is an ambitious goal, and of course a sentence must be made an opportunity to modernize, to reorganize and to restructure public transport by roads in Galicia, and so glad to consider it; I see that you have seen it; but, of course, there are others who prefer to see things from the black side, from the dark side. It's not our case. In any case, we believe that this reorganization and putting those services on demand in rural areas will be a huge government action that will greatly benefit families and Greeks. But what really worried me about what I heard before was to see that Mrs. Pierres didn't know anything about the other day in the commission, because if something explained correctly the Mr. Director General is how they were each of the 55 tracks that are already running from the first phase of the Roadmap. He said exactly how each one was, but not only that, they're from the first phase 10.5 million this year in budgets and all going on in some other phase, either in bidding, or in either work, or in expropriation, or with draft drafted, all those of the first phase, and already explained those of the second phase, that will come in successive years and that they are doing the project. I'll send you the participation link, or I'll ask the Director General to send you detailed details of how those 55 tracks are all underway. A great plan, by the way, advisor, not only for road safety — a very important issue and where counsellors don't exhaust their efforts — but also for alternative mobility, what they have to do with road safety, what they have to do with environmental policies by reducing the production of CO2, because here there are transversal policies, as the advisor said, and not only that, about health. In any case, they could help a little in the transport too, because of course, when you see that a transport plan is boycotted directly by the Vigo Town Hall, because it says, "What difference! why do Vigo citizens have to be different from other cities?" Well, no, because the important thing is to keep generating opposition and using the demagogy that everything is against Vigo, but that Vigo citizens miss out on opportunities, and they really are those who end up sacrificing themselves because of these policies. In any case, what's really nice is to hear about intermodality, too. More stones can't be put in the way. I was even ashamed yesterday when the mayor of the Coruña came here and -- so that they wouldn't tell him that in 19 months he didn't do anything about the hydroplanning accesses -- he presented in the press an infographic of what he wanted to do, an infographic! We don't want infographics, we want approved documents, and we want the soil available to the council, and we want access to the Coruña, Santiago and Vigo. [[Applause]] Infographics, this is the only thing they do, letters, infographics and speeches, but what they do is they don't move a single plane. We were talking about roads, too — I don't have much time and I'm going to finish now — and all the road works are going in security. He was talking about the maintenance plan, the firm plan, of course we have to invest in firms, we are one of the autonomous communities with the highest number of kilometres per inhabitant and per square kilometer. In any case, we are the ones we have most of our own territorial management. What is the fear we have, too? Well, that's the same thing that's going on in other things. It frightens me when I hear the counselor, with good intent, who wants to make the extension of the Ártebra road and will find himself with the Chamber Council, which only makes it difficult. The only thing that remains to be invented is the same as his colleague in the Coruña, and that to stop the Ártebra track invent a gas step as they did at Alfonso Molina in the Coruña. He's the only one left to stop the track. Let's see if they help you a little bit and so we can count on that track, because it's very easy to ask for a metropolitan area, but when we have to do the ways to structure it, it's all about getting stuck in the way. In any case, we believe that these policies are in line with what is expected of a government in the 21st century...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u148	...which are policies that are in line to make a better quality of life for citizens, to generate jobs, to be socially inclusive and, in addition, to improve that quality of life for all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. Replica, Madam Infrastructure and Housing Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u150	Thank you, President. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bará and all the other Members, I heard all the plans here, short look, pandereta. Do you look like you're short-sighted, panderete, flat, deploying demand transport in Galicia in December 2019? And solve the problem of non-rural transport? For me, of course, it's a real challenge, and the easy thing, the easy thing is not to do anything, that's the easy thing, that's what was done during the Bipartite, for four years, but we bet on implanting it and we're working on implanting it, of course yes. [[Applause]] Do you think it's a plan, you think it's a pandeireta, you think it's a short-sighted look to take advantage of the synergies of school transport to solve rural transport? Take advantage of the taxi, take advantage of the different modes of transport to solve rural transport? Let's do it, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's do it in December 2019. We have a roadmap and we're going to solve rural transport. [[Applause]] Take the bus where you need it and when you need it. Because it would be easy not to do anything, as you did for four years at the Bipartite. In any case, 065 from the Bipartite, of course I have to say it, while you're talking here about the subject of concessions. Mr. Bará, do you know that in the Bipartite, the 065 concession contract, the fourth part of the contracts you've been awarded? To a big company. The fourth part of the 065 Service contracts at Quintana time went to a large company, the fourth part of all contracts. So, of course, I didn't accuse this government of things that aren't. I can also admit that I am criticized for absences or forgetfulness, as Mr Bará did, by the topic of bus stations, the repairs of bus stations, that we will continue with Plan Renova, but of course it would be lack of concretion, because in half an hour one cannot explain everything that he will do in four years. Of course, it's not absences or forgetfulness, I've transferred the general lines of what we can do in four years. Mr Bará, you also criticized — and I don't know whether Mr Cal too, and Mrs Pierres, but in any case Mr Bará itself — about the measure of the Accompanying Law and the waiver of concessions. Look, last year what we did was to mark that roadmap with a new law, to guarantee public transport after the Supreme Court's ruling annulling the extensions. So it's a new law to ensure public transport, and it's going to share with me that public transport has to be provided, and not that it stays in limbo, and also in the Law of Measures we put the normative provisions to clearly fix the processing and to resolve the transport to demand, because it's our objective to take the bus where necessary, and at the time and place where necessary. It is therefore to lay the foundations for coordinating and integrating different services in transport mode, taking advantage of synergies, implementing the mode of transport to demand and, of course, clarifying the procedure of adjudication, because in August 2017 there will be transport, Mr Bará, of course, new efficient, sustainable transport lines that solve transport in rural areas. And on the waivers of the concession, I again say that for four years the Bipartite did nothing, and in six months — because in those four years I was obliged to adapt the planning to the European regulation — we had to resolve it by law in 2009, in record time, six months, to give stability to the sector and ensure public transport. Mr. Bará, Mr. Cal, of course, what guides me in my work, day by day in public management, is the public interest. I see it as a management to the service of the citizen, and to me the only thing that guides me is the public interest, of course, they don't doubt it, and that's what we're working on here: for the public interest. You were talking about neighborhoods, too. Galicia has to plan its transport services with responsibility and efficiency. I don't know if your proposal is to deploy all the services everywhere, take the boat, take the train, take the bus to all parts of Galicia. So transport in Galicia is not solved, I think in that I hope and hope that we can agree, we have to analyze demand and make transport viable, which are, as I said in my first intervention, compatible with the different modes of transport. We don't have to take all the means of transport to all parts of Galicia, especially having 30,000 nuclei of population as we have. We have the Atlantic Axis, which offers some needs that are covered, we have the Metropolitan Transport Plan, but to me the most surprising thing is that Mr. Cal comes here to tell me about the AVE, when his colleagues — the political representatives of the Podemos Seas — are those who say that the AVE is a rich train. And what really surprises me is that I'm coming here to talk about trains when they publicly transfer AVE is a rich train. [[Applause]] On PLSAN, I am determined to deny the evidence that PLSAN is moving forward. It bothers you, in any case, to invite you again, and of course Mr Bará will also invite you, along with what I have already committed with another Member, of course invited to come and, of course, I will not forget to invite you. Register of plaintiffs, who transfers Mrs. Pierres, public housing, low execution. The question of the low execution of the Galego de Vivenda and Solo Institute here has often been explained to Mr Bugallo, on repeated occasions. The Galego Institute of Housing and Solo what had been budgets of the State Housing Plan of the Zapatero era, which made the transfer of inexecutable funds, unique and exclusively to say that the State Housing Plan was executed. Therefore, inexecutable funds that could not, therefore, be executed, if you knew. In any case, I ask for tranquility, because, at last, that matter is already settled. About public housing. The past legislation has given 600 public housing, in addition to the 150 homes in rent, and we are developing soil to make shelter protected, of course in the Coruña and in Vigo. 1,600 in Vigo and 1,100 in Coruña only for protected housing. But what surprises me most is that Mrs. Pierres doesn't bet by mobilizing empty houses and not by rehabilitating empty houses. It's what surprises me most, that's also the highway to the Coast of Death. From the highway of the Costa da Morte, which came here to transfer the question of the highway of the Costa da Morte, let me remind you of the first two or three stones of the Socialist Party, and we in the midst of economic crisis, this government in the midst of economic crisis executed 27 kilometers of a free-to-foot bus. Therefore, to take the opportunity to thank the entire infrastructure team that pulled it out of the car and helped to get this out of the way, but, of course, who implanted one, or two or three first stones was a party, and who executed 27 kilometers of free toll-free bus was this government, and in full economic crisis. [[Applause]] On AP-9 we have moved here, we have certainly not given up to achieve its title, we will continue to insist on the claim for the transfer, but what we must recognize is that we have achieved something that has not been achieved until now, that has not been achieved, that is to participate in the decisions on that fundamental infrastructure which will vertebrate 60% of the territory where 60% of the Greeks reside; therefore, it is an extremely important bilateral commission, without precedent, that will be constituted and held the first meeting this February. So share the decisions for something very important, which is the first decision we will make, which is that those Morrazo-Barcala bonuses are assumed entirely by the Government of the State and are not assumed by the Greeks, as reflected in that Bipartite agreement, which involved 180 million euros from 2017 to 2048 paying for the pockets of the Greeks. For that EUR 180 million will pay them entirely to the State Government. And Mr. Cal, I was talking and giving evidence of rejections, I thought I understood five defeats a day. Repeat, repeat, and repeat unfiltered statistics, will not be true. Of course, for you, it's probably the same as a garbage dump or a garage, or an industrial ship, or a habitual housing, or a summer house. Not for us, what matters to us is the usual housing rather than the launch of an industrial ship. So statistics have to filter them, and, of course, the usual housing is not comparable -- it's best for you, but not for us -- for other types of releases. So statistics have to filter them, and they have to be explained correctly, and as long as they say so, it's not going to be the data you say. Returning to the competences of the council, of course we work to improve services, to improve quality, to vertebrate the territory — that they don't care to vertebrate the territory to work for equal opportunities, focused on people — and, of course, for rural people, because I always say it, that I don't understand a prosperous Galicia without a living rural, and what we want is to work to bring benefits to rural areas, with better communication, with improvements in homes and facilitating access to a rural home. That's why we'll bet on new lines of communication, of course, yes, for improvements on the roads, to have a more vertebrate Galicia, and we'll do it by providing public services, basic services, health and education. On the Roadmap, Mrs. Pierres, the infrastructure planner, 170 kilometers that we have planned for this legislation, is explained. But the most important thing is that we start at the beginning, we have the money, so we have the technical designs that you say, but we also have the money. So we have everything to do these 170 kilometers in this legislation, the 11 first defined districts and 95 new paths to facilitate these usual movements by foot or by bike. Therefore, a safer mobility and also a more sustainable mobility. The first very advanced phase, works already in full execution and that we will continue to bid. And the second phase of the construction projects, which will be drafted this year. But a key line for quality of life in this legislation, for this council, from the point of view of transport, for transportation, for people to approach the different centers of interest in necessary times; in competitive times, of course; and at the lowest possible cost. That's our challenge, it's key in this legislation, for this council, to redefine, of course, the public transport system. For us an opportunity, of course, the end of the interurban transport concessions. And we'll redefine that new map of bus lines to give maximum coverage to rural people by deploying transport to demand, which for us is not flat, nor is it pandeireta, nor is it short-sighted; of course, it's the future to solve transport. A real challenge is this model with which we want to meet Galicia's transport needs, especially in rural areas — once again in rural areas. The older people who don't drive, who need to meet their needs: go to the doctor, buy medicine, go to the market... of course that's what we want to solve. That's why it's important the planning we're doing, because we're already doing it. You can talk to the mayors, we invite all the mayors from throughout Galicia, and we explain the road map, we explain the model we want to implement. A big challenge, but, of course, we're involved in doing it. At the intermodal stations, Mr. Cal, of course we're working; also, as in the Roadmap, we start at the beginning, we have the money. And, of course, we have much more advanced than some council. Ask the Town Hall of Santiago if you have clear access to it that you have to define, because the project has not even started, and we are already with the basic project, with the construction and putting solutions on the table to solve the urban problem. We want access and we want the land that makes the Town Councils available to us. We still wait — and with collaboration, because we are talking about a collective effort, as I said, to the municipalities — to give an important boost and to be able to bid Santiago, Ourense and Vigo this year. Because it will be new opportunities for all citizens to exchange these exchanges in axil and safe mode of transport, which are intermodal. And also housing policies, with a zero tax program that has the Business Council and that we complement our measures and the rehabilitation strategy. They're not miniplans, they're fully coordinated aids within the RehaVita Plan, we're not talking about miniplans. Of course, the rehabilitation areas, in my opinion, are not miniplans, is a pioneering and reference figure across Spain: 70 declared rehabilitation areas, the Santiago Road area and this year 12 million euros, therefore 30% more than the previous year. Also rehabilitate public promotion housing, infra-living, half a million euros. Rehabilitation of residential buildings. And I also see that neither the Regurbe Programme nor the Cooperation Fund were important. Since then, the Reurbian Program is direct interventions by the Galician Union to revive the historic nuclei and our towns and historic areas. So, a pioneer program and a program that is a clear bet for rehabilitation, and also the Cooperation Fund, as well as the Law on Historical Helmets—which I see doesn't interest them or does not seem interesting to them— We want to offer solutions, therefore, in terms of housing, we are implementing measures to offer solutions and also housing in rent, also important to us. This year we will allocate EUR 11 million for rent through the various housing programmes we have: the social rental bonus, the housing plan aid, the empty housing programme and public promotion housing, which will benefit about 6,500 families. This is the Galician Board rent program for this year; therefore, I think I can affirm that it is a complete housing policy for this year and for the four years of this legislation. For my part, nothing else. I look forward to my next intervention. Of course, we work for the welfare of citizens. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u151	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. [[Pause.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u152	Yes. Mr. Fernández Prado, you did here an exhibition of a critical spirit, a true display of a critical spirit. You say you're here to govern, to apply your program; this seems more like that of the "order and command" of past times. The government is supposed to also be dialogue, wake up, negotiate, consent, listen to the proposals of the other groups... It won't be just "order and command." [[Applause]] That was a better thing than the past, of the past that is also, well, in its prehistory. And, of course, you're talking about running the program, we, yes, we ask them to do the program. Comply with your program, for example, with regard to the transfer of AP-9, why don't you comply with the program for the transfer of AP-9? Why do they veto the transfer of AP-9 in Madrid? We ask them to comply with the program too in that case; or to comply with their own program, for example, within the deadlines for high-speed train work; or in the case of other transfers that you have also put into your program as promises that they then systematically fail. So do something. Also another repeated promise, which also came to tell us here the advisor, that of airport coordination. Because you blame the municipalities again, the mayors, but you do not take any initiative to put some sort of solution or proposal on the table to really have an effective airport coordination in Galicia. Well, Mr. Fernández Prado also told us about Pontevedra. Well, if we apply your criteria, because it turns out that the BNG in Pontevedra won the elections, you went to 7. So, we'd do something good to win the election and something bad for you to get to 7, which was the worst result they've ever made... yes, Mr. Tellado? [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u153	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u154	It was the worst result they ever had in the cities. In any case, we are here — we have told you many times — to oppose, to criticize, to denounce what we understand is wrong; but also to make proposals, to bring forward proposals. And we also offer our proposals, our ideas, which are also contrasted by experience, and there's Pontevedra again. Counsellor, you now have a kind of feeling or idily with Mr. Mayor of Pontevedra, who has such meetings, come to an agreement, it takes better than with others... well, I withdraw the idily, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Political Idylio, I mean, they're there. So, I would also like you to take note of proposals, solutions, alternatives that are developing in Pontevedra. If not, ask Mr Moreira, who is now a Member again, who knows a lot of things about it as well and who can report it on those solutions that are being applied in Pontevedra, which are awarded worldwide and which can be moved to the rest of the country, to many towns, to many cities, to many urban areas, to the peri-urban areas, to all that network of conventional roads that has the country; areas where many people don't have to live surrounded by dangers where their lives are. And if we don't also have another example, which is the Move Plan, of the Deputy of Pontevedra, which is also an example of effective measures in terms of road safety or calming traffic, and which is also a reference and a path to follow, to be imitated by other administrations. Of course, I've told you that the subject of paths is good for us, but it seems to us an alternative, an incomplete and partial proposal. I think they have to be more ambitious in this regard and have a more comprehensive policy, try a country agreement, a genuine country pact on road safety, alternative mobility, safe mobility, healthy and sustainable mobility. A pact to sit on the table with the deputies, the councils of the country and also the administration of the State, trying — or pressing — to transfer competences in this area as well. In the big infrastructure you do is mortgage the budget for the next few years, because really the spending on debt payments in the coming years 2018 and 2019 will prevent many things from doing. You spoke about public transport by road, and really what you came to show here is that you've been during the past two legislatures in a situation of paralysis, of inaction; you haven't taken measures and that's why all this is about to be done. You promise to transport on demand for 2019, but we could already have it now, what have you been doing these eight years? Why didn't this solution happen to them before, if it really is a fundamental problem of the country, especially in rural areas? You say in 2017 we're going to have concessions working with efficient rural lines after summer. Well, I use it to talk about this after summer, see if it's really like this, and if we have those solutions. As far as the surrounding railways are concerned, nothing is said at all, you are going through this issue, to have a really ambitious policy on the surrounding areas, and they also allow the dismantling of the service infrastructures. Recently, you just announced the disappearance of the public service and the sale of face-to-face tickets in six German stations, and you shut up and grant them; they don't say anything and allow these decisions to be made, and they still don't complete those infrastructures. Finally, let us ask them, as I said before, an ambitious policy, a brave policy in AP-9, claiming the transfer, leaving that position of submission and dependence, avoiding this policy and this aggravation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u156	...that is the current situation of AP-9; that they assume the competences that we have to have as a country in road, traffic and road safety; that they defend the proximity train against dismantling; that they make a policy of housing really ambitious, public, active and non-reactive; that they work to create business soil in areas where it is vital for economic development and employment activation. Therefore, opposition, but also proposition. Here we bring proposals, alternative models, options for the future for this country. Keep them in mind, and I think things will be better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u157	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u158	Well, first of all, I want to make it clear that when I said "a lot of iron for so little pandereta" I was talking about the noise that they make and the ineffectiveness of their measurements, in case they didn't understand it correctly. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Because, Mr. Fernández Prado, yes, I recognize him, I am a panderete, I am a singer and pandereteira, and that to me is a pride, not a shame, at least for me. [[Murmurs.]] I was talking before infrastructure. It is quite true that both AP-9 and AVE are not the competences of this council, but it is your duty to defend or claim that the road and railway network of state ownership is in the best conditions for the Greek and the Greek users. We demand the intervention of the Union to request from the Government basic and strategic issues for this community. The latest news about the arrival of AVE only shows us their inability to defend our interests. The delays follow and follow the unfair and discriminatory treatment of our community by the Central Government. They were even complicit in the suppression of frequencies and stops of the traditional train, which provided so much service to villages and peoples throughout Galicia. You condemned the users of these populations to looking for an alternative of mobility with your own means. And with regard to the transfer of AP-9, more so: what was possible in other communities, here becomes inviolable. And in relation to transportation, intermodality is a magic word as often used by counsellor as often betrayed. They say intermodal stations are priority, but tell me what the story is: 100,000 euros reserved this year for Pontevedra, 209,000 for Coruña, 500,000 for Santiago, 76,000 for Ferrol, 350,000 for Vigo, 365,000 for Ourense and 75,000 for Lugo. These are the forecasts for investments in stations this year, which is just for possible start-up of proceedings. And now we've just moved that they'll start with Vigo, Ourense and Santiago. So, do we also trust the amounts charged for the rest of intermodals for this year? But intermodality — and you know it well — is a concept that embraces something more than a building, intermodality implies the coordinated functioning of several transport systems. And, of course, we already know what happened to regular transport in Galicia. All that matters is being done in demand transport is only a bad response to a situation of regular road transport, which is being carried out in precarious terms as a result of a resolution of its council annulled by the European Court, for violating the European Union Regulation. So you have nothing to boast about, you're doing what you have no choice but to do, by decision of your own Government and the president, Mr Feijóo. And in August this year you'll have to cover all the services to which the concessionaires have resigned. So more palliative politics, too, in transport, the fruit of their mismanagement. And they stop stressing the opposition mayors in the municipalities and apply the tale in the Coruña area: two PP mayors are the first to support the metropolitan area project. Neither the AVE entry in Galicia nor the regular transport will be completed until the next legislation. You know it well, Counselor, and so do we. And it's also true that in the air matter, you talked a lot about airport coordination, the suitability of your expertise, where is this coordination, where are the results of your management? In short, no public passenger transport, no regular road transport, no airport coordination, no proximity train, no intermodality, no medium distance train. This is the summary of your transport policy. The same is also reflected in the practice of the disappearance of industrial soil policy: clearly insufficient appropriations, as has already been demonstrated in the practice of these past years. He said in early 2017, companies would be setting up on PLISAN land. Counselor, let's go there whenever you want and teach us. We continue to demand performances in industrial polygons as important as the one of the Guarda-O Rosal; the one of the Lumba, in Ponteareas; or the polygon of the Pousaeiro, in Vilagarcía de Arousa. Claims already made in recent years and which, together with others, have not yet been heeded by this government. And by the way, I remind you, Madam Counselor, that on the part of the Socialist Party we expect this council to assume, once and for all, the fundamental role it has. Because we can't keep waiting for the roads, for access to housing, for the efficiency of the train service, for the arrival of the AVE that connects us to the rest of the country, for the title of AP-9, for the regular transport network, for the intermodals of Galicia. It's so many duties they have to -- I repeat -- it turns out to be ridiculous to hear them talk about paths. Set priorities and follow schedule. This is the responsibility you have on top of it. Waiting is supposed to stay behind in competitiveness, and that's a price that they don't deserve or can't afford the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u160	Well, on the subject of housing, the difference between your model and ours is that you understand housing as a business. His model pushes the business of housing as an engine of economics, and therefore makes good news the revaluation of the prices of housing and bad its depreciation. However, both those of En Marea and the Charter of Human Rights, as well as European directives or the Constitution, we believe that housing should be a fundamental right protected by institutions. The right to housing and the recognition of it as a first-needed asset is reflected in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. And yet access to housing is still a problem in Galicia, I don't know whether or not you're defending the fulfilment of the Charter of Human Rights, if that's how you use your reply to say it. The European Union, despite its lack of competence in this area, also indicates to the Member States the need to provide security at home, promoting the right to a decent housing, providing equal opportunities in access to land ownership, promoting equal opportunities in access to credit and promoting access to basic services. The Constitution says that the public authorities will promote the necessary conditions and lay down the relevant rules to enforce this right, regulating the use of the ground, according to the general interest in preventing speculation. You can see that during these years you have not complied with this article of the Constitution. If the media aren't put down, right disappears in practice. They potentiate rent and rehabilitation and facilitate the mobilization of the 300,000 empty dwellings in Galicia. With regard to the transport of demand and the use of school transport for ordinary transport, it seems good that they defend that line, it would be more lacking if they hadn't brought something here! They're going out here saying they put that on the table, it would be more like they didn't put anything on the table! but it's not just about defending transport to demand and ordinary transport in school transport, but about how they do it. We had a meeting with the Federation of Taxis and they didn't like this draft transport, the transport law they're generating. And it's also true that they're going to change this law to the coup de judiciaire, not out of self-interest. It also says that they make policies for people, of course they make policies for people, especially for friendly people, like when they deliver social housing to voitre funds. There are policies for people, but for a few people, very few people benefit from those policies. With regard to AVE, which whenever we talk about AVE come to us with the same story, if we were to rule, of course, we would develop the railway plan differently, we would consider the AVE differently. What we're saying is that now that the project is underway and that it's started, what we're asking is that there are no discounts and that they finish the work that they've promised, and that they finish it, as I say, without discounts and with the necessary security systems so that we don't have to live a situation like the one we live with Alvia's accident in English. With regard to the challenges, he says that we talk about five daily challenges and we don't take care of those that have to do with habitual housing. We would like you to tell us how many of these defeats have to do with habitual housing; if we had that data, we could go to that particular data, so we ask you to -- we ask you -- that in your reply you give us that data, and we can speak with a better approach on that issue. I would also like you to take advantage of your reply to explain why you do not solve the problem of public service in the parish of Caves in Ferrol, where the concessionaire has undertaken to guarantee and improve the hourly frequencies so that they are compatible with school services and health services; they are always using their private transport, and the Ferrol Council commits itself to — well, if it is already solved, I would be very glad to hear it — to cover the expenditure, the difference of expenditure, and only lacks the approval of its council. So we'd love it to be solved, to tell us it's solved, and otherwise, to explain to us why it's not. Another issue that also seems to me to be important — and I missed you very much in your presence — is that you talked about the railway service. We all know perfectly well and all of us in this House who is the safest, most sustainable service possible, and I missed a lot if I didn't talk about rail transport, and I'm going to ask you two more questions, which I'd like you to answer: What do you think and what will you do about the recent closure of the ticket sales service and attention to the face-to-face traveller of the stations of Guillarei, The Carballiño, Sarria, The Boat, The Street and Ribbadavia? And I'd also like you to give us your opinion about the proximity train, if you've been thinking about taking some plan forward. And as far as road safety is concerned, it seems good that they do a few miles of green roads, we would like many more to do, it seems to us a good, insufficient initiative, but a good initiative. But one of the main causes for which the Galician community is one of the most sinister autonomous communities — the second with more fatal accidents of pedestrians and cyclists — is because the network would travel...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u161	It's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u162	...passes through the center of many populated nuclei and does not have traffic calming measures in the urban hull. Some examples of these routes of competition from the Union are PO-551, at their passage through Marín, Bueu, Cangas and Moaña, or PO-308, at their passage through Poio, Combarro and Sanxenxo. This situation poses a high risk in urban crossings, which is where pedestrians and cyclists are concentrated. Here are the measures we need to take in a double solution: on the one hand, we must comply with the measures of traffic calm, which contemplates...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u163	Thank you, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u164	...and, on the other hand, make rounds. What measures do they have for these types of situations? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u165	Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u166	Good afternoon, again. Look, Mr Bará, of course we have a critical spirit, and what we do is — once critically analysed — new proposals, we incorporate them into an electoral programme and present them to the citizens with the new ideas, and we do so, because we are committed to the programme. No taxes, but responsibilities with our voters, which I see, perhaps, are some who don't. Electoral results, speak in Pontevedra, I'm talking to you here about a compromise with voters and a program, and we want to fulfill it, and we also congratulate the advisor for keeping him informed. He said there were no new themes. I'm going to talk to you about some, apart from the housing observatory, which was the only thing you've named. The program re-allocates, rehabilitation of housing with social destiny, aid for rehabilitation of historical helmets, the Reurbian Program, aid for energy rehabilitation of housing, the law of historical helmets, has new programs, what happens is that we just want to see other things. I was saying that about AP-9, we're still asking for it, yes, in these two months I've been here as a Member. We maintain the demand for AP-9 transfer, but we don't fool people about the themes of the beaches. We speak clearly and continue to demand that transfer. We also carried out the election program. He spoke of the intermodal councillor, spoke of the mayor of Ferrol with the train for the rich, he also forgot the great statements — we speak of the intermodal — of the mayor of the Coruña, who said that the intermodal of the Coruña was not strategic to the city. Another great statement by the mayors of the Mareas. Mrs. Pierres, when I said that about the pandereta, I understand perfectly well that I was talking about noise, but that's why the only noises here are you, the Junta that bring in are serious policies and those are what we want, not noises, but really serious policies. [[Applause]] Look, intermodality, don't they like the laws we bring about urbanism? But if access to the intermodality of Vigo can be made, it is because of the laws brought by this parliamentary group and approved by those votes of the parliamentary group. So I think you should have more respect for that legislation and not criticize it so much. Investments, I was talking about intermodal investments. You shouldn't have any management experience, because if you didn't know that if you put up the works today, you wouldn't execute them, because there are a few bidding and adjudication times that make it necessary, first, to complete those projects when you can give us those solos and then to bid the works, if you wouldn't be running as they are in other municipalities where they rule. Look, I was talking about the Vigo Metropolitan Area, and I'm going to tell you something you don't know: the Coruña metropolitan area doesn't exist, it's pure smoke, it's a smoke curtain that comes out every time you run out of budgets, every time you lose a choice or every time you need to distract something. The only thing the mayors of the Coruña, the PP, the border of the Coruña tell us is, what do we tell them about the metropolitan area more than a label?, tell us what services are going to have?, tell us who we are going to be in this metropolitan area?, tell us how we're going to manage?, etc., etc., etc., etc. No, it's just a smokescreen. Mr. Cal, he says the PP housing model isn't your model. He says you understand as a right what PP understands as a business. That's what, do you explain Ramon Spin? Is that the business you understand? [[Applause]] I'm going to tell you something else, that this one doesn't wait for her, that one already knew she was going out. I'm going to tell you something else, I had the chance to meet the company of the United Left of Rivas Vaciamadrid, where they were born to the former Churches, the father, the father-in-law, all these. And the day, the day that things are known from that company of Podemos, Ramón Espinar's is a story of children. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] But look, see if we're interested in the subject and we think it's a right that only this year 11 million euros in rent programs, 11 million euros. Meanwhile, in the Coruña they continue without joining the Empty Housing Program. I'm done, Mr. President, thanking the advisor again and giving him good time for these policies. We'll have them here whenever we need them, and we also believe that, frankly, these programs will greatly improve the quality of life of the Greeks in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. Close the show, Madam Infrastructure and Housing Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u168	Thank you, President. Mr Bará, I am glad of this covenant for road safety, of course we have been long ago a proposal that we proposed by moving the Road Safety Plan for observations, that we have not moved any, but, in any case, I am glad, of course, and I accept that covenant for road safety, would lack less! So, I bet for that safety pact I'd be traveling with you. As for the intermodals, Mrs. Pierres, I've explained here the annuals of the intermodals, it's an already educational question. Which criticize realistic budgets to me, of course, surprises me. I think we all know that the works are done annually, multi-yearly. I think this same year the total amount of Santiago's intermodal would be wrong. Of course, I'm not mistaken, we make realistic budgets, and what I said is we'll bid this year. So these are budgets that will allow you to bid this year and do these works as they are, of course, the budgets designed and approved. And also to downvalue the work of getting European funds, let me think that maybe you don't know what that management involves. Of course, it's a lot of people's work for a long time. So we can't downvalue the work of many people for a long time to get funds for intermodals, to get funds for roadmaps and to get funds also to try to transport on demand. It's a lot of people's work for a long time. And in the airport system I made it clear to the Galician board to invest in tourist promotion, in all its aspects. I expected you to share with me to invest in tourism promotion, and not invest — or rather spend — giving money to private airlines. That's our bet, investing in tourism promotion in all its aspects. Mr. Cal, the bus service to Covas, is waiting for the Ferrol Council to ask us what he said he was asking us to do. We, technical cooperation, ask for it and we will authorize it quickly. What you're asking me, what you're proposing, is that I ask myself. I think the Ferrol Town Hall can make a request, and we'll authorize it in a safe and agile manner. [[Applause]] In any case, I tried in my presence to offer you the big lines, the great outlines of the strategic lines that we have for this legislation, so that all the team in the board work with effort and dedication. An action with a social prism, with a focus on housing, which has an important social scope, and we will also bring that social reach to the rest of the subjects: mobility; of course infrastructure; and also, even industrial soil. Because, ladies and gentlemen, when we improve services, when we bet on making it easier for citizens to live, when we increase the quality of life, when we invest in vertebration — which I think you don't bet on for vertebration — when we make it easy for entrepreneurs to develop their projects by creating jobs and creating wealth, we're working to give the Greeks more opportunities and, therefore, we're working to create more well-being in Galicia. As far as housing is concerned, we will continue to develop the measures proposed and collected in the RehaVita Plan, with particular attention to promoting and strengthening the 12 measures to combat evictions that the people's own valet has indicated that the Galician Union is the most ambitious autonomous community with programmes and measures to combat evictions. We must not forget, in addition, to urge the county of Ferrol and the Vigo Council to adhere to our programmes. Reinforce the Rent Housing Program as well. Our proposal this year, this year's investment, will enable 6,500 families. And also putting emphasis on rehabilitation and urban renewal as a key to improving living conditions, an opportunity to recover the built heritage, to rationalize the occupation of our territory for a stimulus to employment and an important asset of geographic dynamization. Rehabilitation will have a prominent place in this council this year and the following years, this year with 40 million euros. Continuing with existing programmes, rural rehabilitation, historical helmets, public promotion, ARIs, integral rehabilitation areas, but with new programmes, the Programme regurgitates, the Programme re-allocates, the Cooperation Fund, energy efficiency aids, zero-interest loans for rehabilitation and also the recovery of old homes by teachers. In the field of mobility and transport. I've moved that the goal is to extend the benefits of the Metropolitan Transport Plan to more municipalities, Ourense and Pontevedra, so it reaches 70% of the Greeks. Today it reaches 60 percent of the Greeks, we aim to reach 70 percent of the Greeks and implement this transport in rural as well. The priority objective, of course, is to be able to overcome, solve the obstacles and obstacles that are putting us in the Vigo Town Hall, failing to comply with the word, breaching a signed agreement, breaching a pact reached with 13 municipalities. As I have pointed out in transport, our goal — and we have already begun our work — is to redefine the maps of the bus lines in six areas in Galicia, define and determine this new transport map, implement it in August of this year and continue to move forward so that in December 2019 it is fully implemented and we can approve the future transport plan on demand, giving maximum coverage in rural areas. As I said, take the bus wherever you need it and when you need it. And also, of course, to advance in the intermodalities of the big cities, bidding this year the first phase of the intermodal stations, which is the bus terminal integrated in the Santiago, Vigo and Ourense railway station. Of course, I'm also watching and paying attention to the arrival of the AVE. For us, the arrival of AVE is irrevocable, it is a country goal, and we will also work to improve the integrated transport network. And, of course, more industrial soil in advantageous conditions, we're talking about PLSAN, and, of course, we also want to move forward -- and so we're going to do it in Moras -- by offering advantages in business soil with bonuses of up to 50%. And also special attention to road safety, and, of course, I am glad of the pact for road safety with the Galician Nationalist Block, and we will also bet on an important effort in the Plan of Firm Strengthening. Roadmap. Of course, our bet pays attention to the most vulnerable users, and also because it's also a line of action that combines sustainable mobility with road safety. I'm going to finish, we have great challenges ahead, four years to make it easier for families to get through the most difficulties, regain the value of the built heritage, expand the metropolitan transport plan to 70%, reorder the new road transport map, boost intermodality, make the provision of industrial solo entrepreneurs in advantageous conditions to generate jobs and wealth, extend the network of high-performance routes and ensure road safety. Vigilants, too, on the fulfilment of the state's commitments. So a new social policy on infrastructure, on housing. A policy aimed at promoting sustainable infrastructure for economic progress and social cohesion, with rehabilitation as the centre of housing policy, with business soil as an incentive to invest in Galicia, create jobs and create wealth, also, of course, by public transport; useful public transport, modern public transport and attractive public transport. That's our responsibility, it's our challenges, our goal is to work for and for all the Greeks, and I think it's a responsibility for all of us here. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u169	Thank you, Counselor. Before continuing with the motions, report changes on the agenda. In particular, that tomorrow, at the end of the vote on non-legislative proposals, the third question will be raised, is a question by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And then, in the evening, the questions. The question contained in number 9 will be raised in the second place. All of this is already discussed with interested parties. And we continue with the motions. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez and Ms. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the milk sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u170	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate the motion, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u171	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The reality of the sector today is for all of us and all of us well known. The volatility of production costs and milk prices creates great insecurity in our farms, and when the first go beyond the second, the gain profession is ruinous, causing millionaire losses in the family economies that live from milk. As is the case today, the prices of milk come from industry, so the only thing that moneywinners and moneywinners can exercise some control to improve income today is in the expenditure chapter. The average of these expenditure per farm, according to several studies, is placed in a bay between 27 and 35 cents per litre. Key factor in this chapter is livestock feeding, which averages 60% of production costs in the dairy sector in Galicia, and can range between 5 and 7 euros per cow in production and day. We set ourselves up as a reference model in the dairy sector: Ireland, totally based on pastoral care. In the Irish dairy sector production costs are at 21 cents per litre of milk, with 60% or 70% of the useful agricultural area of the farms around the farm itself. While in Galicia technicians recommend feeding the cattle on the basis of silo and concentrates, in Ireland the following pattern is to base food on green grass and not exceed 100 days of silo per year. There is no doubt that pastoral care models are highly efficient in reducing the production costs of a farm, but they would need to be adapted to each case. The truth is that Ireland's territorial structure is diametrically opposed to that of Galicia. While in the Gaelic country, rural areas are structured on the basis of farming and farms have enough land to feed, in Galicia there is a total chaos, with illegal land forests that have usurped 10% of the land surface and difficulty in access to more land on the part of our farms. One fact that reflects our situation is that only in 2014 Galicia imported 190 million euros into fortresses. As for the consumption of concentrates, Galicia is one of Europe's most consumed areas, compared to 568 kilograms per cow and year of Ireland, our land has an average of 3,940 kilograms. This makes the Galician glovery very dependent on the import of cereals and concentrates and therefore highly vulnerable to the volatile prices of these inputs or on the world market. The green grass, whenever you have enough, is enough to feed the cattle, and it's the cheapest and most efficient crop we have in our country. The problem is that in order for the Greek dairy sector to make a transition with guarantees to a grazing-based system, it would be necessary to recover about 220,000 hectares of pasture land. Milk is the main product of Greek agriculture both in economic and social terms and from a territorial point of view. The rise in the prices of fertilizers, thinkers and fuel since 2007 has not been associated with a similar rise in the price of the product, and this imbalance is causing heavy losses, debt and a higher rate of closure on our farms. So we already know that in 2007 they closed more farms than in 2016, we also know that members of opposition groups are advertisers of the apocalypse in rural areas, we are aware that since September 25, the People's Party has won the elections and that many peasants and peasants also vote for you. But believe me, I think all the members we're here today in this House are worried about, and a lot, where the sector goes. And the sector's going to close the curries, leave the lamerías up, pick up the suitcase and emigration. While last year multinational Lactalis was reported by the prices and abusive conditions imposed by the Greek producers and producers. Most subsidiary companies showed great benefits for the group in 2015. Galician milk, the group's Greek subsidiary, a benefit of €2.5 million. Lactalis Puleva, 19.8 million, twice as much as in 2014. Pulva Food, 10.5 million. Lactalis Forlasa, 5.3 million etc. Despite the historical gains of this group, in August 2016 around 1,200 producers and producers in Greece have seen milk prices again lower due to the abusive contract that the company made them sign in June, with formulas that result in a lower price than average in Galicia, which is already the lowest in all Spanish territory. The last average price — which on our land does not reach 27 cents — would give a price of less than 26 cents with the French multinational formula. In addition, the contract aims to include the possibility of delaying payment of milk to two months, which is illegal under the law regulating payment of perishable products, and also requires confidentiality to ensure that all such abuses do not go out into the light, and thus can continue to operate with total impunity. Lactalis' dividends and profits are made with sweat and tears of Greek peasants and peasants, and with the loss of hundreds of jobs that depended directly on the 425 milk farms that were forced to close in 2015 and the nearly 600 that were forced to close in 2016. Lactalis became a leading invoicing company, highlighting the 8.7 million euros of dividends distributed by Puleva or by Puleva Food, while imposing contracts at continuous prices. What about the failed Milk Agreement of 2015. Almost two years from what is supposed to be that so-called dairy agreement submitted by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Rural Environment to end the mobilisation of the sector, it is shown that industries continue to impose abusive conditions with total impunity and that they have become paper wet the contracts without price, with all the conditions unilaterally imposed by the industries, the voluntary agreements and the famous historic agreement to have a sustainable value chain, in which each party had guaranteed its margin. From the Rural Media Council and from the Ministry of Agriculture they will be complicit in these abuses, since, despite being aware of the situation, they are not putting in place appropriate measures to ensure that the prices paid to producers cover production costs and pay decently for work, so that contracts cease to be a tool to extort producers, and prices and sales conditions respond to objective indices and guarantee the margin sufficient for producing people to live dignifiedly for their work. In fact, we don't know anything about the multiple complaints that have been made of these abuses. We ask the president of the board and the Rural Council to stop voting balloons outside and assume responsibility for defending a strategic sector like the dairy sector, which depends thousands of jobs in different regions and which is seriously threatened by unfair practices from companies that impose more abusive conditions every day while increasing their share of benefit. The German and Spanish Government are showing their inability or complicity to get the agricultural sectors — especially the gutter — to get rid of themselves, without putting the government machinery in place to try to remedy it. In the case of the dairy sector, at prices below the average of the state and below the production costs — even below 20 cents — that are receiving some farms, and that do not carry anything but their closure. It is a fact that it is increasing, and at present it accelerates the rate of closure of holdings in the milk sector. From this reality, they have to respond to administrations that assume efficiency. The promise of back-up help is not a solution to shorten the underlying problem. If no measures are taken to ensure that prices on farms cover their production costs and persist over time, the outcome of the sector will be irreversible. Because of this situation, the German Government, if it hasn't done it before, has to do it now. It is urgent that you immediately call all parts of the food chain on a permanent basis, using all of the Government's machinery to reach agreements for a solution that is sustainable at prices. This is necessary for the dairy sector, but it is generally necessary for all sectors of agricultural activity, which see how the work is increasing and the viability of farms is becoming more difficult. It is not assumed that producers and producers have to conform to the spells that can come from European funds, without attacking, in the exercise of their own competences and responsibilities, the structural problems that affect various sectors, and particularly the dairy sector. The Rural Middle Council almost questions the relocation of production with the argument that there is still a percentage of higher increases in other areas compared to Galicia; the total amounts here are always smaller. In 2015 they closed 474 farms in Galicia, 93 in Asturias and 10 in Andalusia. In 2016, in Galicia more than 500. According to the board, most farms disappeared in the stretch of up to 300,000 kilograms, and they increased something more than 700,000 kilograms. With this data, the council intends to justify the disappearance of farms, indicating that it's older or because they're small than because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u172	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u173	...have no quality of life or because there were mergers and now they're in other societies. I therefore urge this House to take the necessary measures to support milk producers and to slow down the rate of closure of farms so high, which is affecting the depopulation of rural areas in the face of lack of prospects. To do this, a strategic plan for the dairy chain set must be put in place, as they did in other countries before the quota system was dismantled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. You have the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. In this sea of grass that is Galicia, anyone who starts a visit would be to rural and have a sensitive look can appreciate the remains of a great battle, the deliverance there in the 1980s and late last century: brick constructions, mid-fall uralites, small purin wells and to go shooting, modern cuts, etc., and a territory — in a large percentage of extraordinary potential wealth — that walks agonizingly towards a eucalyptus desert. Of course, you can also appreciate the other side of the epic tension: powerful and modern tractors, cutting-edge facilities, vast silage corn extensions, meadows of a vizzous green, food cars, etc. These latter ones are the ones resistant to that great war that in the fighting over the past two years they have left beyond the thousands of victims; that is, thousands of closed farms that have left tired and tired of working for English or French or dependent on those who save their milk. I always wondered why in the village the herdsmen don't tell whoever sells the milk, but who gives it to them. Once again, our speech is accurate in the formulation of concepts. In the last big goat in the producer sector, and however he accompanies him in services, which is very much, the corresponding Council and the President of the Government of Galicia were absent. Even many PP mayors were holding banners, elbowed with elbows, with the rural mayors of other formations. They even took part in some self-convictatory to defend a dignified life in the countryside, until they were called to the chapter. Mr. Feijóo, he didn't receive anyone or tried to mediate either, and the Counselor's lady won't give me any pitazo or forward or back, absent. Obeying who? The document to be signed in Madrid and the stolen points in hours before the signature are proof of the betrayal of the People's Party and its political apparatus: here H, in Madrid B, and sending it. But don't be mistaken, as soon as you have the rope, we'll have another one again. People have a limit! As a government, you have an obligation to intervene. On the one hand, they have the political mandate: use it. They feel the parties are negotiating, pressuring, standing next to the producers. These are ours, they're Germans. And you, too, don't you? Do you remember the sectoral tables, the milk table? Well, they recover dynamics, what a shame they make us, don't be ashamed! Mobilising agricultural land for producers. Give air to the Land Bank. I remind you of the two miseries that are budgeting you this year. Free the desertization of eucalyptuses and give life to the countryside. Take the initiative, quit face-washing campaigns! "It's 100 percent gallage!" No wonder it didn't work! In Galicia, the milk, it's Welsh. Where did they have their heads when they designed the campaign? [[Applause]] In another language and elsewhere, possibly; in Madrid, surely. They have to bet firmly on supporting the Welsh transformation industry, of Greek capital, of Greek vocation, of course now the boxes have flown, and the Greek capital... They know that we need Galicia to have a loud and clear voice in defence of the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. Even if they definite at any time; though instead of singing they yell from time to time, for them to be heard. That role they've never played, that necessary insubmission, corresponds to you, who are government. Or aren't they? Since BNG we've been praying the same price and singing the same song. That's what I've just told you about transformation, and more an emergency plan for rural people, which must necessarily have their feet on the ground on this earth. It'll have to be integral; it won't be enough to plant a few hundred chestnut trees to wash your face again. They will have to sit with all the groups of this House, with all the economic and social agents involved in our rural areas, make agreements, negotiate, consent and act. They'll have to, because this defence situation that you consent to and feed makes no sense. Because, without catastrophes, the situation in rural areas is dramatic. I come from there, I live there and always come back there. That is why we will vote in favour of this motion tabled by the En Marea group. We're going to do it because it points to the same direction as I was previously exposed, and we're going to be making a lot of effort with who it calls and moves around the sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. The Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The dairy sector is a strategic sector, because it is of the few that cannot be developed living in the capital of the province. The day-to-day work converts dairy cattle into one of the activities capable of fixing population to the rural environment, in which farms are found, from which in 2016 a total of 561 farms were lost, from 9.078 in January to 8.517 in December. The value of milk and milk products must be properly remunerated. It doesn't make sense that it's worth more than a litre of water than a litre of milk! In this sense, fair prices for producers, which at least compensate for the costs of producing livestock and livestock. Despite the average rise to 29.8 we centite the liter of milk in the month of December, the sheep and the lambs continue to collect the liter of milk with the lowest average of the whole of Spain, being the Greek milk, in qualitative characteristics such as fat, with an average of 3.91 %, the highest percentage of the whole of Spain; and the protein characteristic is 3.32, which corresponds to the Spanish average. We also find ourselves in the existence of intermediate operators, i.e., first milk buyers, some figures that work as milk processors. The existence of these operators, which operate between livestock and dairy processing industries by buying milk to the first and selling it to the second, lacks sufficient guarantees for producers, since these intermediaries do not have to deposit any type of downstream or guarantee for the product they move. This is a subject that has been publicly denounced from different areas, and in recent months it has become more relevant, given the number of non-payments to the owners. Agricultural organizations speak of around 200 farms that would be affected by this situation throughout Galicia. And in order to finish, it's necessary for the industry to supply milk produced by gloves and Galicians at fair prices, and to be able to convince the consumer of the enormous quality of Greek milk products, so consumer awareness and original labelling will play a key role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u178	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u179	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a motion that brings cause — the motion I think is, Mr Rodríguez, 1.334 — in an interpellation that was debated in the past full in the Rural Council. I'm saying that I think it's 1.334 because you have three points, and you haven't talked about those points in the explanation you gave us here. The first two points refer to the theme of the price of milk. At the first point, they talk about taking the appropriate measures to intervene in the milk chain. Intervir, that's what he likes. And that at least a price of 30 cents per litre is fixed by the Government to cover the costs of production. In the second point, they ask the Government to transfer the proposal to establish minimum reference rates for the price of milk as other countries of the European Union have done; and they quote France here. Well, to me — before starting the motion debate and talking about these points — I would like to recall here a few words that the advisor said in his intervention in the interpellation. He spoke to the advisor and insisted at that time on the need to start considering farms as what they are: companies. And from there on, speaking in business terms: reduction of costs, profit margins, because only in this way will the owners themselves be able to regard them as companies. Yes, companies, private companies that create jobs. They're companies, too. Look, the Popular Parliamentary Group defends a rural area where there is a quality agricultural production, at a price — and I tell them slowly to understand it — that they allow added value to reach everyone. That's what you say. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, us, we're in defense of this. May it reach all those who are part of the chain of production, therefore also to the gainful. The important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is not the cost of production, it is the added value, it is profitability, and we have to deal with the problem of profitability without adopting interventionist positions, which do not match European standards. How can we ask ourselves to impose a minimum price on milk? The Government must maintain a neutral position, which has already been warned by the competition authorities at European level. Do you remember what happened to the coastal sector at the time of the Bipartite? We had to pay 3.9 million fines, precisely because of imposing minimum prices. We're talking about a basic approach that's not being discussed at any level. What can we ask the Administration for? What we can ask you to do is to ensure that all ends of the regulations of the milk package are complied with. We can ask you to actively monitor compliance with milk regulations. We can ask you — and this is indeed important — for producers to have broad and operational associative structures — milk producer organisations — to be able to develop their role that all milk produced by their partners is negotiated in a position of force. We need to have agents in the sector with enough force to be able to negotiate with the industry. So we cannot of course support the first point of your proposal. At the second point they seem to imply that the French Government did do this. Not so, what happens is that, when milk quotas end in 2015, the Minister of Agriculture Galo asks the sector to agree to increase prices. What happened was a negotiation within the sector, and as in the French sector, agents, producers, they're stronger, they've been able to defend better prices. They speak at the last point of their motion that we take the necessary measures to slow down the rate of closure of farms so high that there is a strategic plan. Look, the strategy or shock plan in the dairy sector we don't have to do this, because all the measures that the Rural Middle Council is taking are also designed for the dairy sector. As for closing farms, you use the data as appropriate. They live to find some negative numbers, and from then on, they throw them over us, without further analysis. If farms are closed, yes, yes, it's PP's fault. We are the ones who are going to exterminate the rural environment, we are going to fill it with eucalyptus, eucalyptus Galicia! If we're going to use the data according to our convenience, we also know. Look, farms closed in 2016, it wasn't five hundred and peak, it was 615. But do you know how many were closed in 2008? 1,050. Do you know how many were closed in the 2007-2008 campaign? 1.637. That's the number of closed operations, eh! We have to be more rigorous with analysis, as the counselor did the other day. The reality is that the sector is adjusting its dimension. There are steps from individual holdings to associated farms. There are cases in which the headlines were 65 years old or older, so they retired. I've finished my speech, and I'm telling you that in support of the sector, we're always going to be found. What they are not going to find is for us to vote motions or proposals that do not favor our owners, who only seek – like this one brought here today – is to advertise and propose measures that know that cannot be implemented, and ultimately search for easy owners, but not help the sector solve their problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u180	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Author group of the motion, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u181	Well, he missed not to blame all the mayors, less than Ourense, than they're doing! They must also be responsible for the dismantling of the dairy sector. The measures that have so far been taken by the board to deal with the crisis, in addition to ineffective ones, have made the problem worse. Voluntary drop in production was an absolute fiasco, as surpluses continue to occur in other autonomous communities, while industries here in Galicia are threatening not to collect and prevent more production, while they are crushing our market with milk from other Community countries. Remember technical and economic results from the Map to Galicia: it places the cost of production in 0.43 euros. Inlac also publishes and places it between 0.33 and 0.39. The purchase price does it through the unilateral imposition of prices by industry, abusing its dominant position on the producer people. The administration must ensure compliance with the applicable legality — that is the sense in which we act with this motion — and put an end to these abusive practices, ensuring a sustainable margin for producers, the mandatory application of formulas and objective indices that ensure this margin and guarantees of compliance. We insist on the need to apply public mediation to dairy contracts which ensure that producers' rights are guaranteed. Not only do we need good wishes and goodwill from this council, we need facts. Right now there are 119 farms in Galicia that are receiving less than 15 cents per litre; 63 that are charging between 15 and 16 cents per litre; 73 between 16 and 17; 114 minus 20 cents. And between 26 and 27 cents, 1,056 farms. There are only 2,050 farms that charge more than 29, which also doesn't assure them that they cover production costs. The reality of the sector, today, is by all well known. We're seeing the glovers drowned in a situation where they hope for a very bad future. I think that since your advisor's office, only there's a farm that's getting a price under production costs, you shouldn't be quiet, and we won't be. A finding that it is increasing, and that it is now accelerating, is the rate of closure of holdings in the milk sector. And these realities need to respond to administrations that assume efficiency, such as the Galician Union and what the Central Administration is. Because of this situation, the Government — if it hasn't done it before now — urges that it immediately call all parts of the food chain on a permanent basis, using all the Government's machinery to reach agreements for a solution that is sustainable at prices. This is necessary for the dairy sector, but in general for all sectors of agricultural activity. It is not assumed that producers should comply with alms, without attacking — in the exercise of their own competences and responsibilities — the structural problems facing the various sectors, and particularly the dairy sector. Thank you very much, and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u182	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. G.P. motion. of Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the prevention of gender-based violence in schools
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u183	This motion was tabled with an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u184	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u185	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I wanted to begin my intervention by recalling that, unfortunately, we started the year exactly as we finished it: there were women killed in December, women killed in January, women killed in February, and today even a woman is added to the sad and painful list of women killed, this time in Barcelona. We say this because, from the Parliamentary Group at En Marea, we want to call attention to the response that we have been giving to these feminicides since the institutions. Let us spend at least a minute thinking if the answers we're giving are enough, because it seems clear that we're failing. To start the debate from this point of view of self-criticism, it would help us not to engage in the usual circular opposition debate in which we see ourselves involved. Focusing on discussing concrete proposals, we think it would be the most useful way to society out there. That's why I would like to acknowledge that we are aware that the measures we propose from the Parliamentary Group in Marea will not end the problem, but they can be solutions. In fact, we've been discussing them with experts on the subject, and we think that they can help advance in that society free of macho violence that we certainly want all of us. I was saying to Mr. Román the other day, when he was answering my plea, that the fight against violence against machos doesn't understand political colour, that we're all going together here. The truth is that we wanted to believe that this is true, in fact we were not the ones in this House who denied certain people in the Chamber the ability to talk about macho violence. And you're not Mrs. Paula Prado either. Curious of your way of calling the dialogue! However, political practice makes that common commitment to violence against the machos not as clear as it should be. It's like in everything, statements go on one side and political actions across the border. With one hand the flag of equality, and with the other the scissors for equality policies. So it's the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party who fund educational centers with macho practices that separate the student. They are the ones who reduce the resources to fight against macho violence; those who have abolished the autonomous agency of the Galician Equality Promotion Service; those who have stopped convening the Education Forum for equality since 2013, or the country and mother Days on equality since 2015. Or those who voted against removing homophobic trash from the classrooms. And, of course, it is you who have been using for years to excuse the economic crisis to dismantle the welfare state and undermine equality policies. The cuts are neither inevitable nor much less innocent. They respond to a specific ideological model, as much as they try to conceal it. Because it cuts into dependents, cuts into school dining rooms, children's schools, kindergartens, implies — and they know perfectly well — a greater commitment by women to the invisible reproductive economy and care; it therefore implies more inequality. You were also the ones who at the time presented an unconstitutional remedy against the equality law of Government Zapatero. And you're also the ones who eliminated education for citizenship. But, finally, we're here today to talk about the future, and today we'd like to ask that we start to dream of a plan to build a better world, a fairer world, and that's the way to start. We must educate our daughters differently, and we must also educate our children differently. The words are not ours, but a Nigerian novelist named Chimamanda Ngozi, but we signed them completely. As we said in the previous session, the importance of today's motion lies in the conception that school is the main area of social transformation. It's true that school can't be the only trench against inequality, but it's no less true that it's one of the essentials. And in that sense, we would like to point out that this proposal is not a point of arrival, on the contrary, but a point of departure to start working. What is the proposal of the En Marea Parliamentary Group? First, urge the Government to develop an economic memory that compromises a budgetary departure to accompany its action plan for equality in educational institutions. It is simple: resources, resources and resources. To make equality policies require resources; to fight against macho violence requires resources; to really have a plan of equality actions in schools needs resources, because without them everything remains in the usual, in a mere toast to the sun. In fact, a clear example of the need to shield concrete budgetary resources we have at the second point of our proposal. From Marea we think that budget constraints cannot be an excuse for those centres that wish to have programs against violence against the masculine. That is why we intend to eliminate that limitation of ten centres that can accommodate the Project of Equality plans, and that it is not the Administration itself to limit the capacity of the centres. The target can't be in ten, we can't be very happy because there are ten. The goal will have to be that all educational centers in Galicia have plans like this. Thirdly, we want to talk about the creation of equal agents squares in educational centres that enable us to move forward towards joint teams of guidance and equality, with specific training in this area and in the prevention of macho violence. This is not an extraordinary proposal, but we are talking about a figure which, as you know, already exists in other communities and which is producing very good results. Among the functions of these agents would be, for example, the prevention of macho violence; affective-sexual and self-esteem education from equality; the application of non-sexist language in the centres; the monitoring of transversal content in this area. Why do we demand a specific figure? It's simple, because from the schools themselves, both the teacher and the mentors say they're overwhelmed and they're unable to answer this question. On the one hand, there are time problems; the teaching burden makes it impossible for teachers to devote the time they need to impart the content of equality. But, on the other hand, there is training, which they themselves say is clearly insufficient. That's why in our proposal we specify that, in order to be considered as such, equality agents must have at least 300 hours of specific training. In the same vein, we propose the development of an equal training plan for the entire faculty. At present, the training offered in this line is clearly insufficient; or just as for you, it is not enough, I wish you would answer me on your own! Because, according to the information offered by the board itself, in this academic course, only three courses are being offered in the field of equality for teachers. We are talking about three courses that are offered to 50 teachers each, 30 hours of network duration; in addition to 31 hours of initial training for teachers in practice. Moreover, in the Annual Teacher Training Plan 2016-2017 there is not a single line dedicated to equality, not a single line! That's why we're proposing an integral plan that starts in the first phase of university training. Do you know how many hours they receive specific training of equality who are students today and who will be teachers tomorrow? None. Zero. It doesn't exist! There's not a single kind of material. Thus, in our proposal we speak of an initial and compulsory training in equality, prevention of macho violence and co-education for all levels, both in Maxisterio's career and in secondary education teachers needed to teach. But we also want a wider offer of continuing training, because, as we have said, three courses for 50 teachers each do not seem sufficient commitment to equal training. Less isolated courses and more integral programming! Fifthly, we talk about the need to extend gender equality to all educational centres, adapting the contents to each stage and including among the same specific blocks of affective-sexual education. In the previous session, we explained that for us an optional matter in a course is an insufficient measure. It goes ahead that we consider that a specific matter is not the ideal solution, and we advocate the development of specific content in all subjects so that equality is really a cross-cutting matter; but, really, not as it is now, that transversal is a perfect synonym for nobody to care for. Of course you can and should learn equality in Mathematics and Physics, or Social Sciences. Yes, you can and should, as the counsellor told us in the previous session, but it is not done. The data is clear. After analyzing ESO's books, Ana López Navajas concludes that women's presence in textbooks is only 12.8%; and in science subjects, that percentage falls to 8%. So little cross-sectional. So in addition to strengthening transversal content, by evaluating its inclusion in educational materials and materials, we think that having a specific space in which equality is taught is a positive and necessary measure at all levels of education, both in the fight against sexism and in an affective-sexual education on equality. Point 6 proposes to establish an annual recognition of good school practices on an equal footing. It is collected in a public catalogue, so it serves, in a band, as a recognition of those centres that do a better job in this area; and, on the other hand, as a service to the directors and teachers of the centres in Galicia to look for initiatives that work. Finally, we propose to develop, together with professional and expert persons, a protocol for detecting macho violence in secondary schools, bachelor's and vocational training; a proposal that, if it is good to collect its Equality Plan for educational centres, has not yet been drawn up, and from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea we consider it to be of utmost urgency. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Mrs. Chao, I thank you very much for the speed of your intervention, since I was about to fail to understand what was being said to me. Look, I know we're in another not-law proposal, but, as my colleague Mr. Losada said, that intellectual superiority still has to prove. [[Applause]] And, of course, the best way to prove it is not to underestimate anyone you're debating. Because that, in addition to psychologically demonstrating certain types of complexes that are not the subject of debate at the moment, supposes, at least, a lack of elementary education. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Having said that, I will be allowed — of course they will allow me because I am going to talk about the GNP, our position — we are absolutely in agreement with the substance of the non-law proposal. And we also agree because there is something that unfortunately needs to be recognized and that, with all due respect, Mrs Chao, you have not mentioned in your speech. And it is unfortunate that today the transmission of elementary values — among which it is, as it is not!, equal respect for women — cannot be guaranteed, unfortunately, in families or in society. And there is a transvasion of competences from society, families and educational centres that can be palliated when we continually introduce it at all educational stages — obviously adapting it to the level of students — certain contents; among which it should form part of this priority, to which its non-law proposal refers. So, at the bottom, absolutely agree. But, as you know, we do present a series of amendments to your non-law proposal, more than anything for technical issues and issues that would require a greater definition of the wording that you propose. In point 3, you're talking about creating squares with a given profile. Obviously, the creation of certain profiles in the teaching field is a state competence, and therefore I understand that the Galician Union could not in itself create certain types of squares. And much less already defined from this Parliament what would be the minimum training in hours that these staff should have. You realize that in order to be an instructor at an educational center, both primary and secondary, you need to be in possession of a degree or a degree, so 300 hours of training seems to be insufficient already a priori. So we amend -- as you know -- that point number 3 of your non-law proposal. In point 5, when you talk about extending the matter of gender equality, I understand that they do so by analogy with the matter of free self-configuration of secondary education, it is therefore necessary to define how new subjects are introduced in stages that in principle have not been included in their curriculum distribution outside the subjects that are already in the actual corresponding decrees and in the corresponding decree of the autonomous community. So the wording we propose is to encourage in all educational stages the inclusion of content related to gender equality and the specific treatment of affective-sexual education. Of course it does, extend it and look for ways to enter those contents permanently. Finally, we propose that a point 8 should be added to your proposal, not by law, where the Government of Galicia — through the Council of Education — annually inform this Parliament of the actions that are being developed or developed within the first Action Plan for Equality in Education Centres, within that plan 2016-2020; and that it should refer to this Parliament, through an annual report, the conclusions of that plan and its implementation in the centres, as well as how many items are considered necessary to assess the effectiveness of that plan. As you well said, if we use as an indicator only the number of training actions currently underway with regard to equal training, the result is not that it is poor, it is practically irrelevant within the general teacher training plan. We therefore believe that it is of the utmost importance for this report to come to this Parliament to contrast the effectiveness of this plan. Nothing else, for my part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u188	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u189	Good afternoon. Besides subscribing to Mr Álvarez's statement — by Luis — about the previous debate, I did not want to miss the opportunity to make an assessment either. I think sometimes you notice too much when there's a person or a group of people who don't come from a house where you saw selling milk or rabbit meat — it was my case — under the cost of producing it. And if you've ever seen it, or if you've ever lived your own experience, I assure you that you would agree that if you set a minimum price. Just like all of us we defend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u190	Mrs. Rodil, that's been discussed before. To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u191	...the minimum interprofessional wage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u192	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u193	I must be the first person to call it into question, I think. It's also worth it, isn't it? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u194	But it was discussed earlier, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u195	Yes, calm down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u196	Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u197	Come here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u198	No, no, I know what I'm saying. I'm saying it was discussed earlier, and I don't think I said anything offensive. And there is an article in the regulation that says: And the question in this case is another. It's okay! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u199	Well, well, calm down...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u200	It's okay. Absolutely quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u201	We can go on, or?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u202	Mrs. Rodil, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u203	Thank you. Well, we're moving forward — let's give a little bit of a shot to the debate now in the afternoon too — the support of the Galego Nationalist Block Group to the motion that it presents in Marea because it introduces concrete and tangible elements in the fight against macho violence from school, with actions specifically focused on youth; the only way, from our point of view, to effectively confront this serious political and social problem that reaches half of humanity. [[Murmurs.]] It's not a collective, it's not a segment of the population, we're talking about a form of terrorism that killed more women in ten years than ETA in all its history of armed activity. And we all know that this is unique and exclusively the tip of the iceberg. Luca was referring, in his speech, to the woman murdered in Barcelona, the eighth in which we've spent years in the Spanish state as a whole; one of them, Virginia, in Carballino, in our country recently. In spite of this reality, that tip of the iceberg, or even all the violence that is still invisible, there is little social awareness about it. According to CIS data, which even today has published its last barometer: only 0.1% of the population places male violence as the main problem that exists today. The fear of Catalonia's independence, rather than violence against women for the mere fact of being women, is at the front of it — so that we can make ourselves a collective image. And in this sense, we understand that something we're doing is wrong. If we add to this fact — as it was published by the Secretariat of State for Equality in 2015 — that 1 out of every 3 people aged 15-19 consider violence of control acceptable, and even if it is inevitable that the couple prevents them from seeing their family or friends, it shows that until now we have not been able to transfer the idea that male violence goes beyond a beating and that starts with normalized and naturalized attitudes and behaviors. There's an initiative -- it won't give me time -- very interesting about this, of the Head Company, a few years ago in the village of Monforte. In addition, that survey, hand-crafted by the CIS and the State Secretariat for Equality, in relation to women in a situation of violence, was advanced, which 39 per cent of men — between that age group I said earlier — and 35% of women — between 15 and 29 years of age — considered that a woman who was in a situation of violence was because she consented to it. In this sense, public education is a key piece to transform society and to break down prejudices and stereotypes, to deconstruct what is meant to be a woman or a man, to break up conceptions of toxic love linked to the myth of romantic love, or to provide tools that enable us to detect situations of masculine violence and respond to them. But for that we agree with the motion that we need to train the teacher, incorporate the gender perspective into all subjects, not only a matter of free choice. Besides, since BNG, we believe it is necessary to start talking, besides, other socialization agents of enormous importance to this day. We live in the society of information and communication, of the media in a broad sense; that is, cinema, advertising, television, social networks, and even the porn industry influence the construction of models that set what it is to be a man or a woman, because to a good extent — it said recently a study by psychologists Vanessa Rodríguez and Marta Lezcano — these elements, these media, the mirror of society through which we adults transmit messages of how we want minors to understand the world and the society in which they live. In this sense, we will support all initiatives — such as this motion — that come from where they come, always work or contribute to eradicating male violence, focusing on the root of the problem, focusing on the line of flotation of patriarchy and machoism. She said these days to the actress and director — and already finished — filmmaking Leticia Dolera: "All political and social change has to be supported by a cultural change to stop her from enduring." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u205	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. The truth is by listening to the previous voices I have to say one thing, and we have agreed on many of the appreciations that have been made. The fact that we agree with many of these appreciations of what we must all understand is a central theme in our current reality and that it has to be a central theme in the policies of any public administration, is precisely the consensus agreement reached on the 25th of January. There's an agreement agreed by all political forces precisely on the subject we're dealing with right now, in a motion that brought the BNG about the policy of the German Government in relation to gender violence in minors. I don't understand why we now want to run away from these consensus spaces. The truth is, when we all make it clear that it's a subject where we have to set an example for society and walk together and work hand in hand; we have reached agreements, and fifteen days later we already want to walk in lines different from those agreements, the only thing that can show us is an insatiable appetite for confrontation by certain groups. And we, of course, will not fall into that trap. He said this because in the initiative that we agreed and that we agreed in the whole past we were talking about promoting a Greek pact against gender-based violence. There was talk of developing the co-education measures provided for in the I Action Plan for Equality in Galicia's educational centres during 2017. We were talking about launching information and awareness campaigns aimed at the general population, and specific to youth, in school, cultural, sports and so on. It was about training in prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence for all public administration professionals; of course, it was also about teaching professionals. All of this we agreed to in the past. I don't understand why we have to get out of that big deal we got fifteen days ago. You now propose to flee from that consensus, to continue to become a political confrontation that unites us, and in what we should precisely set an example for society to tell them that, working together, we can eliminate gender violence. In this sense, they now intend to focus on education, as if education were the only way to solve this problem, when you know -- I think it comes from their interventions -- that we are talking about a wide spectrum problem, an integral problem of society, and in which society as a whole must be involved; of course also the educational field, as it cannot be otherwise. It would be a mistake to face this matter both from the idea that education is the magic and exclusive solution, and from the idea of giving up education from classes on equal values. It would also be a mistake. We know the importance of the educational field, and also the importance of giving a comprehensive approach to combating this scourge. That is why the Education Council, in collaboration with the Vice-Presidentship and in collaboration with the General Secretariat of Equality — hence the transversality which we believe is present in the treatment of this problem — has drawn up the I Action Plan for Equality in the Education Centres of Galicia 2016-2020; a plan consisting of 28 objectives, 87 concrete measures and which is based on four fundamental principles, which I believe is what unites us, and we have demonstrated it on many occasions. To introduce gender equality as a cross-cutting and always present in educational activity. To build an equal society using education as a means. Look for the goal of zero violence in classes and in society. Education in the full integration of all people, above their affective or sexual choice. But in addition to including equality in the curricula of all educational stages cross-sectionally, this course 2016-2017, mentioned above, is a new matter of free self-configuration: gender equality for the first and second time in the ESO. Now they ask us to extend it to all educational stages. On December 13 Mrs Acuña, when she defended a proposal from In Marea, a non-law proposition, laughed and ridiculed the subject of gender equality. Hurry up, because it's a tool that we can ridicule and laugh at, and now we're asking it to spread to all the educational stages. Mr. Álvarez has already commented that, of course, it is very good to say that it is compulsory at all stages of education, but they should also say that subjects then withdraw from the curriculum or take hours to introduce the subject of gender equality. Obviously, we understand that this is a step forward, but that it is accompanied by other kinds of measures that are making it, in some way, progressing in the fight against gender-based violence from the educational point of view. I would like to highlight, for example, the Strategy of Cohabitation — and I will end school — 2015-2020, which includes concrete tools such as the Plans Project and Educational Innovation or Educational Protocol to ensure equality, non-discrimination and freedom of gender identity. In addition, the future implementation that the advisor has already announced in his interpellation and spoke about it, to include the gender perspective in a higher grade formative cycle in vocational training. And, of course, what is present in the teacher's training projects. Finally, as I said before, I think it's good to try to confront a subject that should join us all. We have agreements, we have the capacity to agree, and so we prove it. Let's try not to get out of what unites us and work hand in hand for something we all agree that we have to change. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u206	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Author group of the motion, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u207	Of course, thank you for the support expressed by the Socialist Group, as well as its amendment, which we will accept because we believe that it will improve our proposal. And thank you also for the support of the Galician Nationalist Block. Question, because you spoke here five minutes ago Mr. Fernández Gil, but we don't know where we reopened the consensus. If you understand that reopening the consensus is talking about the issues that we consider important, then we also break the consensus. Yes, we consider education to be a major issue, so we'll still be here talking about education. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because it turns out now that not only do you do it as a marvel; not only do you have all the measures that can be done in schools to fight against masculine violence; they are the only ones who know of budgetary techniques; they are the only ones who know of legislative techniques and, of course, they want to be the only ones who mark the agenda. Unfortunately, the agenda we all call it, and yes, we believe that concrete measures must be taken to talk about education. He did not explain to us why it is against the concrete measures we proposed, and that was the debate, not whether we have a consensus or not. If we have a majority consensus to fight against male violence, let us tell us where you are at odds with our proposal. Where do teachers have more training? What more hours are there devoted to this matter? He didn't say! Then you say we're trying to rediscover the Mediterranean. Another thing not, but of popular wisdom here we learn a lot. For we think that it is not, that it is not all invented, and that in this sea that is the educational system must navigate with humility, without arrogance and, above all, without losing curiosity; it is not going to be that, because it is so arrogant, if you are losing ideas that have other parliamentary groups, which I say so, by chance, we bring one that is worth it one day. After all, Odysseus was up to ten years old trying to discover the Mediterranean, so we still lack a lot of time to talk about this matter. We already know that the ideas of all the others are nonsense, but we still don't resign to defend them, because that's what the opposition work is about. We have already spoken in this Chamber about the alarming data on the violence of the macho: the decline in the average age of the aggressors and the victims; the increase in the violence among the minors; the normalization of control and jealousy in the relationship. And they say: school isn't the only place to fight against macho violence. No, of course not. But can you do something at school to avoid it? The answer is yes. The answer is that there are scientific studies that prove that they do, that you can do a lot. Studies showing how children and girls who received specific education at school in the prevention of male violence had lower rates, both as aggressors and victims, in respect of children who did not receive them. That's why we consider it so important. But that's not all. There's a very recent study, just two weeks ago, published in Science, which says that gender stereotypes are beginning to consolidate with the six-year idea. The answer wakes us up. Only six years last in the head of the younger ones is the conception of being equally valid as their peers, so we believe that school is so important. In this study, it is said that six-year-olds have less tendency, though they may be brilliant than their peers. So you're assuming, just six years old, that the activities for very, very, very smart people aren't for them. This happens at school, it doesn't happen anywhere else; it's at school. In this way, the assumption of stereotypes is shaping expectations, desires and, finally, the decision-making of today's children, which will be the women of tomorrow. That's why we think it's such a transcendental subject. We can't normally say that at school, six years old, girls feel less ready than their peers, because this is not something natural, but product of the macho society in which we live, and the school can do a lot to change that society. We want the gales to be doctors, lawyers, engineers, teachers, mayors and presidents of the board too, if that's what they want. And, of course, free and independent women, and that can and must be learned at school. For that, we have to fight against Machism, which aims to define what is for them and what is not. Of course, we have to tell our daughters that the differences in society do not respond to ability, nor do they respond to chance, they answer a very specific question called Machism, and Machism can fight. Because as long as this one relies on ignorance, it can also be cured with education and training. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u208	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the execution of the high-speed railway line in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u209	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u210	Mr. Losada has the floor to formulate the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. This humble Member will try to be at the People's Group's intellectual level to make them comfortable on the issue. And I'm going to start, yes, quoting the Church of Science. [[Applause]] I know it doesn't have much to do with AVE, but the phrase that appears in your frontispicy does have much to do with the political reconstruction of the facts that happened around the AVE in the years of Mr. Rajoy's government. And that phrase is, "If it's true for you, then it's true." It has a lot to do with the alternative facts of Mr Trump's press office, and it has a lot to do with all this manufacture of an alternative reality which, unfortunately, has nothing to do with the reality that the neighbors of Laza, Campobecerros, of Baños de Molgas, or of Vilar de Barrio, come next to their houses in relation to the high-speed works when Galicia enters between Lubian and Taboadela. And I say between Lubian and Taboadela, because from Taboadela we have a cosmic void that we still don't know very well how it's going to be solved; there seems to be a and option b. The truth is that I fully remember the sentence of the current Minister of Defence from dismissal to dismissal. It was in connection with the Bárcenas, that gentleman who was a member of the People's Party who didn't know. Well, at least ears, more or less... Then I also remember the words of the minister of education saying that you were talking... yes, Mr. Bárcenas, he of box B, Switzerland, 43 million euros, those little details Well, well, well, I understand that you're upset, but the more upset you, the more I'm going to talk to you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] So it's much better if you don't bother them. [[Applause]] Finally, in any case, I do not know whether it was 3% or 3.5 % or 2.5 % — it would depend on the exchange rate. [[Murmurs.]] Well, apart from the redundancies, there was outside mobility. Do you remember that? It was when university students and doctors in science and technology emigrated from this country, which I also know upsets them, but it's true. It was external mobility. It was the moment that that minister himself said they were still college students, but they were never his children. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. President, I would like to thank you a little... [[The President said words that were not understood.]] But I don't see you with much motivation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u212	I'm a little tired. I'm a little tired, really... but you're calm, you can quietly expose yourself, that I'll try to keep everyone quiet. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u213	We moved on to the third methodological framework, about the post-verity. And it was the sliding of the completion of the AVE. We went to a theory of tectonic cards, where, if you remember, exactly five months ago, in the election program of the People's Party it was said to be irrevocable in 2018, and in these five months it has slipped twelve. So this is what I want to talk about. I am very calm, because the counselor, before, in her presence, said they were very attentive in the Greek Government. Then I remained absolutely calm of the extreme attention of counsellor Ethel Vázquez and the president of the board. [[Applause]] Look, the slip of the date of the finalisation is actually the only thing that hides itself is a scandalous political use, a systematic lie — if they want, a systematic political lie — well, political falsehood. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr President, I remember a commission in which omerta was mentioned referring to a government of the Socialist Party and it seems that the People's Party has been completely undisturbed. And the Socialist Party's appearance had to hold it there. Then I would demand the same sensitivity in plenary as in committees. Perfect. [[Applause]] Okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I say it because I have the same rules of play and to avoid gender discrimination. [[Murmurs.]] There are some problems with this date slip. The first is that the paralysis in 2016 is false. It is false because the public works auction of the Ministry of Development in Galicia was greater in 2016 than in 2015 even. In 2016, 512.6 million euros—it's true that I haven't broken it down, but almost everything is the AVE, as you know—and in 2015 it was 446 million euros. First lie. That paralysis has taken since 2013, where there was a government of Mr. Rajoy with an absolute majority, and it was a strategy of Mrs. Pastor to delay the works, minimally changing the projects. And that's why there was a need for timely changes in the environmental impacts and projects, and so the works were delayed and there was no need to spend what was planned. And that's what allowed them later — Galician level to Mr Feijóo and Spain level to take Mr Rajoy — to suck at the deficit. So I don't know if they like it or not, but that's the way it is. Then we should know. Look, it's so much so that the National Markets and Competition Commission, which is little suspected of left-winging — because all of its members are appointed by the direct PP, indirectly or via the Electric Network — because the truth is that that same commission... yes, of course, I have actions of the Electric Network and the truth is that it bothers me a little that in the board of directors there are people with such high qualifications. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm worried about the dividends I get every year. But I don't want to sell. [[Laughter]] What I want is to be able to go to the shareholders' meeting asking for a new advisor's resume, that's what I want to do. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Okay, good. [[Applause]] I appreciate the financial advice, Mr. Tellado, I know that you are highly qualified to make financial advice. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I thank you very much. For the National Market and Competition Commission itself told the Ministry of Development, textually, that it didn't cheat on its website, that there were plans to open in 2016, and we're in 2017 and it's estimated to open in 2018. I insist on the Ministry's own website. They lie about what is public, what will not lie — politically, of course, Mr President — about what is private? Like the title of the film, private vices, public virtues, we all know it usually works. We moved on to the Taboadela-Ourense project, 17 kilometres away: in nothing. We're from Ourense and we know what that's like. We see two alternatives. One is to fix the current track. Fixing the current track means a high-speed train for an average slope of 2%. Again, we skip the technicians. All technicians say the limit is 1.5%. Anyone who knows the San Francisco tunnel knows that it is actually built to pass two trains, that is, there are two tracks, in 1956 — I think I remember. But there's a little detail, which I'm sure the counsellor's attention has slipped slightly: that it's not designed for electric trains. And then we're going to have a problem, like with PLISAN's works: that the chainwork will have to be underground, because it doesn't take. [[Applause]] And exactly the same thing happens with the rail viaduct of the Mine River, which were made the resistance tests, actually, for two diesel trains, but it turns out that the electric trains have chains. And here it doesn't have to be underground anymore, but it has to go under the Mine River — imaginable — to get the bridge to hold that track. So another mistake. And what bothers me is they don't cheat on me, because they don't cheat on me, they don't cheat on me, I guess they don't cheat on me. But the president of the German Government, when he comes out and talks about the date slip and talks about all those milongas, says something absolutely surrealist, says that the minister will come and check every three months. And who checks what the minister checks? Of course, do we know what the targets are every three months? [[Applause]] Do we know which targets are marked every three months? Or what we're going to have to stop is, every three months, a press conference in Rajoy where Mr. Íñigo de la Serna says it's all about fucking mother? I'm sorry, it's all going great... — of course, it's true, I'm sick of posterity — that everything is going great but that the works in Campobecerros are stopped, that the San Francisco tunnel is what it is, and that the viaduct of the Mine River is what it is. [[Laughter]] So that's what we're talking about on this initiative. And that, indeed, is what I present... Well, then there's another approach that's also extremely interesting, because the fact is that the methodological approaches of the People's Party always bring some level of knowledge. The mayor of Ourense said he was pleased because the minister had present the variant Taboadela-Ourense. That theological approach seems to me to be the whole thing. I don't want you to have it present, because it's not the Holy Spirit, I want you to do it, I want you to do it. And to do it, you have to bid and you have to do the project. And we need to know something about where he's going.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u214	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u215	We need to know something about where he's going. And the Greeks are full of possibilities, of science and milongas, because the truth is, in 2019 it won't be. And if not, we'll see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u216	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u217	By the way, all the German experts, some of them... because there are engineers outside the People's Party, uh, there are engineers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u218	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u219	...out of the People's Party. There is a world of engineers, economists, neurosurgeons outside the People's Party. We know that most of Western wisdom is deposited there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u220	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u221	But out there, there's also wisdom.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u222	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u223	So I'd appreciate something very simple and that's what I'm presenting... [[Murmurs.]] If they let me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u224	Quiet, please! It's over. It's been a while.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u225	That's what I present in this motion. In this motion I only ask you to build a true account.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u226	Thank you, Mr. Losada. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u227	Yes, they don't like it, gentlemen of the People's Party, that they tell them the truth, that they sing the truth. But that's the way it is, the story is the way it is. [[Murmurs.]] Well, of course, it's an endless history of AVE, an endless history of non-compliances, delays and deceptions, and now, in the terminology Feijóo, "date slip," which is the terminological invention that the president created to talk about these deceptions and those delays. Well, in that story, in that long story of deception and delay, there were also its star moments. One of them was the Workers' Pact, because the truth is there are shared responsibilities here. That embrace, also that political idelio between Mr. Blanco and Mr. Feijóo, who promised and agreed nothing more and nothing less in that pact that works worth 4,700 million would be adjudicated and that the works would be finished in 2015. Then in 2010, these 4,700 million already turned into 6,000 million, with a public-private funding system to ensure precisely the execution on that deadline. And Mr. Feijóo said "amen," he loved that proposal, that project. But well, then things weren't, it seems, as he predicted. Then in 2011 Mr. Feijóo solemnly announced that the next Government of the People's Party would shield the works of the AVE so that they could be executed within the promised deadline of 2015. We see what the blouses, the compromises, Mr Feijóo's and what the result is. Well, the reality is, we're still in default. This 2015 deadline remained in the role of the People's Party governments, in 2011, in 2012, in 2013, in 2014, in 2015, ruling in Madrid and ruling in Galicia. And don't blame them, as they're doing, for that so-called 2016 political blockade, because in all those previous years he's been ruling the People's Party and there's been breaches and delays, deceptions and lies. The reality is like that. They did not meet the 2015 or 2018 deadline. Therefore, responsibility is clear. And you, yes, a lot of belligerence in some cases, but in others that belligerence becomes docility, in submission, to accept everything they decide in Madrid and to blame them always on others. Now we're on a new announcement of delays, delays, defaults, a new date, a year's delay, which we'll see where it comes from. And so there are truces that are seriously compromised by their completion, and let's not say the case of these 17 kilometers of access to Ourense, which are not even bid. That is therefore the sole responsibility of the People's Party governments in this case, of those who rule in Madrid and of those who say that they do, of those who say that they love everything that is done in Madrid. We therefore support this initiative of the Socialist Group. The thing is, we also want to complement it with a broader vision. Because here it is made a fencapé and, of course, we understand that if you want to focus on that connection with Madrid, in that most plateau view, specifically on the problems that this line has in the case of the province of Ourense and in Zamora — especially in the case of access to Ourense—. But we want to enrich that vision also with a proposal to complete the Atlantic axis network — with characteristics of the 21st century, of course — both with regard to the connection between The Coruña and Ferrol and with Vigo's connection to Porto, with times of travel, of course, that are also of the 21st century. Because we don't comply with that reduction in the duration of the trip between Vigo and Porto from three hours to two hours and a quarter; which, you'll tell me, have eliminated 11 stops and I don't think we're conforming to anyone. So we're also asking for that connection to Porto in reasonable times and assuming a commitment to make the southern exit of Vigo, which is the one that will ensure the fulfilment of that objective. And also -- because we think it's about justice and receipt -- we include a point for an apology. Because they have to apologize for the defaults, for the delays, for the deceptions and also for the slips on the dates. We therefore hope that the Socialist Group will respond to these proposals and that we will be able to complement their proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u228	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u229	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Chronic of an announced delay — fifteen years, six months and a few days —. In 2001 — July 21 — Fraga, Aznar, Helmets and Cuisine, on election evenings, put the first stone, the first stone of the line The Vigo-Courne, germolo do AVE galego. In 2009, solemn and mythical date, date when connections would arrive with Madrid. The Minister of Development, José Blanco, arrives, and signs with Feijóo, indeed the Covenant of the Spear. In principle, the technical characteristics envisaged are improved. On January 10, 2009, in a Lugo rally, Mr. Feijóo said, "The board will assume the execution of the Vigo-Pontevedra-Ourense high-speed frame and the Ourense-Lugo frame. Then we will pass the bill to Fomento, but the board will make the AVE between Lugo and Ourense" — Gustavo Freire's auditorium will end in applause. "This infrastructure is basic for Lugo province and I wish to do it." Greek skeptic — this is a fictional character — "true or false?" In April 2009 there were autonomous elections, right? All right. José Manuel Barreiro: "The AVE will arrive at Lugo with autonomous funds." "Five years later, the project fades into state budgets and does not appear in the government budgets." In 2010: commitment buried when the polls gave them an absolute majority. Also in 2010 Ana Pastor says, "I will maintain that impulse of works." In 2011, at the end of the Zapatero mandate, paved by the first wave of cuts: "Dignify the Faijóo-White advance to complete the works by 2015. The PP starts a deadline-marking ferret." Núñez Feijóo says, "PSOE counts stories from the milkman." Ana Pastor says, "PSOE spends more on the office and the tour car than on the AVE." Rueda says —2011, this is very interesting: "Today is 21, José Blanco has ten days to include the AVE game in the BOE. Pending bids end this same month in March 2011. If the work is resumed outside that margin, the Government of Spain will return to the path of ill-treatment to which the Socialist Government is submitting to Galicia." Pepe Blanco says, "It's okay, instead of hiring March 31th, it's April 15th." All right, 2012, month and half before the elections, Adif authorizes the disconnection of ERTMS. In 2013—provisionality—with the security system turned off, before the first curve of the entry into Santiago, that of Angrois, for which we saw every day who we saw from Ourense, the train derails, as we all know. 80 people die. In 2015, the degree of execution of the games does not exceed 40%; 2016, the degree of execution of the games does not exceed 16%, according to the official data of the State General Intervention. On December 30, 2016, just two months ago, a wonderful holder of De la Serna, Minister: "600 million euros for four minutes? Is this investment worth four minutes? —he asked. On the 20th of December there is the alert in Ourense of all groups, there is alert, and you ask the minister, we have to ask him all and all of the oransans, all of the Greeks and Greeks, and this question should also be asked to your minister: Are you able to equate the largest infrastructure, the greatest opportunity of urban development in Ourense to which you will have to deal with the Council — the Council of PP, by the way — in the next century with the saving of four minutes? It looks like an insult, an insult to intelligence, an insult to citizenship. We denounce this date dance that starts, first, in 2009, 2010, 2012, 2015, 2018, 2019, a year of provisional tests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u231	And the cause, says Mr. Feijóo, is the government in function. A government in functions cannot legislate but can run the assigned games. There were recorded shares. On January 27, eleven days ago, the Commission said what was said. Alert and warn: "Network information has to be [...]"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u233	The minister recognises enormous difficulties and at Marea we say that his task is not to come every three months, his task is to carry out the budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u234	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u235	...that there is no delay, that the deadlines are met. And then we support, of course, the Socialist Party's proposal and we believe that we should take into account the suggestion of the Block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u237	Good afternoon again. The truth is, Mr. Losada, I saw him come up here a little excited. I want you to calm down, but let me tell you a couple of things in another tone. Because mine is not what you use when you get up here. He was talking about the cosmic vacuum of AVE. The cosmic vacuum of the AVE was what his friends were creating Knight and Tourin when they were ministers and secretary of state, that the AVE ended up in Valladolid, in Valladolid! [[Applause]] But look at one thing, Mr. Losada, since we're talking about Vigo and his friends, if you want to talk about accusations, look at Vigo, who has four defendants there, four! Or if you want, better, we're talking about ERE in Andalusia, which is the biggest fraud in the history of democracy in Spain. Look at your house before you come here to teach lessons. Second, he talks about slips, about date slips. Mr. Blanco is the king of the slips, or the other minister, that, Maleni, that of the Galician Plan of "m...". Do you remember? Do you remember? That's how the socialists treat the Greeks, that's how they treat them! [[Applause]] He says they're full of lies. Of course we're full of lies, lies from the socialists. Because we're all pretty tired. They said the other day, "The minister's commitment is not to come here." Well, you have to thank him for trying to figure out how the works are done every three months. And not only that, but the commitment to having the works finished as quickly as possible, which was the commitment that reached the other day. As you say, it's three quarters behind, not one year behind, because of course the works, Mrs. Marea, the works assisted, but you can't modify contracts, contractual affairs, when you have technical problems with these works. Therefore, it is clear that if there was a political blockade in Spain, the works would notice it. In any case, the unlocking of four of these five sections is already being moved, and we hope that they will continue to evolve. The minister also confirmed his commitments to Lugo's railway improvement, also to Ferrol, and to continue studying and working on this subject. Also with Taboadela's variant, with the Sardinian variant and, like not, with the intermodality of the stations. It is true, and I share it with you, that we are tired of the continuing delays. The Greeks are tired of these delays, as they don't! they're many years and we're all tired. But we also have to say that AVE is better than others in construction. Even last week Mr. Erkoreka literally said, "I wish the VE Vasco had been as good as the Greek." And he said, "For Mr. Rajoy's personal preference." As you can see, there are others who look at the German AVE and how it evolves. The same thing was said last week by mayors of León and Asturias, who wished his tunnel had been with the same commitments and the same speed as the German AVE. As you can see, everything is like you look at it. But I understand you have the same concern as we do why this work ends as soon as possible. Look, today we have only — beyond technical things that may arise — uncertainty, and it's having state budgets approved to be able to do the works. To see if they are so committed in Madrid to budgets and vote in favour of budgets. And they can be sure of one thing: the budgets will have the necessary matches for the Greek AVE. [[Applause]] We'll see if the votes of the opposition groups in this House are. Speaking of points, if you ask us to vote for a date that is 2018, I would ask you to change the date from point 1 to 2019, so that we can vote. Ask for an annual commission. When we just said there's a commitment to create it quarterly, it's going back. This second point, of course, is not going to support it. The third point says we activate a Ministry website. Home!, I would ask you, at least, to change to urge the Ministry to activate the website, so that we can vote for it. And in the room he talks about making joint bidding of project and work of sections. Look, those projects are already in writing, part of those projects you want to do in project and work; so we'll delay, they're already auctioned, they're adjudicated, and they're in writing part of those projects. And besides, you know that, beyond the demagogy, the current contract law makes it very difficult to bid for project and work, and more in infrastructure. So we think it's a song to demagogy and the gallery. In any case, we hope you can change those points so that we can show our firmness in the demand for this AVE. And I don't know if you're going to accept the amendments to the Block, but, of course, to apologize to the president of the Board, we think it's a joke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u238	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. For the motion's own group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u239	Thank you, Mr. President. A couple of methodological issues, Mr. Voice of the People's Party. The Spanish Minister of Government was called Magdalena Álvarez, not Maleni, because this is no road bar. And by the way, she was a Fairy inspector and no one paid her children's birthdays and she knew the cars she had in her garage. [[Applause]] That was the Minister of the Government of Spain. I'm saying it if you have any problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u240	Quiet, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u241	You know that I am absolutely shielded, and therefore — I insist — Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez, who was a minister of the Government of Spain and was not called "Maleni", knew what car she had in the garage and nobody paid her birthdays from her children. No big deal, right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u242	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u243	Thank you, President. With regard to the budgets, if it was not necessary for Minister De la Serna to commit himself so solemnly that the budgets were approved, there will be no need. If he didn't need advertising and propaganda or powert point, he won't need it now. See if it turns out that the date slip is going to be the fault of the Socialist Party, which was already the last one I expected. I go back to the four questions I talked about, of which, by the way, the spokesperson of the People's Party told me nothing: budget restrictions, low execution, around 40%, a change in the reduction of projects to slow down the works and, therefore, not being forced to invest the amounts that were budgeted, and a theoretical parallelization with the companies. But you know that in all this someone cheats. It is true that President Feijóo has already said that since 2010 he was being deceived. The truth is, if they had cheated him since 2010, what a shame it would have been in the elections of the year 15, autonomous, saying that 2018 would be the AVE! Because I... see, please!, calm down, really, that they have a anxiety problem, I think. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] Look, the People's Party program — September 2016 —: "High speed and the AVE to Galicia, its arrival in 2018, is irrevocable for the PPdEG." Is Mr. Feijóo still not wrong or is he already wrong? Or was he deceiving the citizens? [[Murmurs.]] So here the suitcase of this film was Mrs. Ana Pastor, because I understand that she would already know what she then lied to the president. Look, please don't laugh, not the Socialist Group or the opposition groups, don't laugh at the citizens, don't laugh at the citizens. Mr. Rueda, the former infrastructure spokesman of the People's Party, Mrs. Ana Pastor and Mr. Núñez Feijóo said that he spent more on the offices and cars of Tourinño, which is an absolute smallness, because cars, as you know, even though they were upset, had bought them the former Franco-Channel Minister Fraga Iribarne, a small detail of no importance, but it's true, I know you're upset! [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u244	Silence! About the amendment, about the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u245	About the amendments, too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u246	No, but it's over, we're out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u247	I know you're upset, but how did you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u248	Tell me about the amendment. Do you accept the Block Amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u249	Before the amendment, I'm talking about another mistake. Next in Five Days: "Fomento pacts the unlocking of the works of the AVE" [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u250	Let's go to the amendment, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u251	I mean, they were locked. What's wrong? Didn't Mrs. Pastor tell Mr. De la Serna? Well, don't fool anyone. We're going to accept the first point in the amendment to the Nationalist Block Galego. So, the second one, it's not because we don't share it, but because we want to focus it primarily on that Lubian-Taboadela plot and that empty sidereal Taboadela-Ourense, where it seems that only the spokesperson of the People's Party knows exactly where he's going.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u252	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u253	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. We voted in favour of the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the position to be taken by the German Government in relation to the reform of the German model of self-financing for 2017. There is a transaction and a point vote is requested, separating the first point from the rest of the points, which include the transaction to which they arrived. We therefore vote first of all on the first point. Point 1 vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, on the position that the Government must defend in relation to the reform of the Italian model of self-financing planned for the year 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14 and against 58. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u254	Quiet, please! If not, we do not know what we vote for, and it is important, it is the most important role of a Member to know what he votes for. We voted on the rest of the points, including the transaction they reached with the agreement. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, except point 1, at the initiative of D. Xoaquín María Fernández Leiceaga, on the position that the Government of Galicia must defend in relation to the reform of the Italian model of self-financing planned for the year 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; votes in favour, 19. The voting is positive. Accordingly, the compromise text of the motion is adopted except for point 1. G.P. Motion vote. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez and Ms. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the dairy sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u255	We now vote on the motion from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao. He said he accepted the amendment of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. De En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao. on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to prevent gender-based violence in schools. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u256	Finally, we are voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mr Abel Losada. He has already stated that he accepted the first point of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, do you accept the point vote? [[Murmurs.]] You don't accept it. There's no deal, therefore. We then vote on the motion with the acceptance of the first point of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block in Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, it's just that we vote as you are, with the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block accepted at the first point. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in connection with the execution of the high-speed railway line in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u257	Now we move on to point 4 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the impulse by the Greek Government of an initial plan of reversal of pharmaceutical co-operation, as well as the establishment of a timetable of measures for their progressive elimination for Sergas patients
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u258	This proposal was amended by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and by the Group on the Environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u259	To formulate the proposal, Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u260	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, almost evening. We will try to contribute to a little debate. Today we have an initiative on the issue of coke, a coke that worries most of the Greek society. And that is particularly concerned at a number of groups that care and care for the good of public health in Galicia, health groups, parties, trade unions, patient and NGO groups — some of them represented here today in the gallery. And in front of which we observe a certain somewhat irresponsible game; for example, with the statements of Minister Dolores de Montserrat, considering increasing it, then turning around, saying yes, as soon as he does not. By the way, Minister Dolores de Montserrat, not Maleni, not Loli, not Lola, Minister Dolores de Montserrat. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Montserrat pain, yes, yes, Montserrat pain. Pain gives many; it therefore causes a lot of pain. Montserrat's pains, very Catalan, Montserrat's pains, in addition, that's very good, it's very good. I don't know that you guys don't have that much, but I'm talking to them about Catalans and even I'm falling for the pens, huh? [[Pall out of the rostrum an object to Mr. Torrado Quintela.]] You're already nervous. [[Murmurs.]] For this minister, who is not named Maleni, probably as a smoke curtain so that no other thing — or perhaps a novelty — is not spoken of, made this story of threatening with a tree, because the tree threatens. The origin of this pharmaceutical copego is in Royal Decree 16/2012, which we, like other political parties and as many associations that have to do with health care, who defend public health, are asking for absolute repeal — Decree 16/2012. Because that's what introduces the exclusion of the health of many collectives and also initiates the installation of the coke. I wanted to propose our analysis of the tree, why not, what is our proposal and how to carry it out. Why not the cop? We believe that coke is an unfair, ineffective and inefficient element. Why is it unfair? It's unfair because we're recording a right. Treatment is a right, just as health care is a right. No one is considering — at least for now — that we have any other treatment, as in some cases there may be rest. And I don't want to give them any ideas so they can save their rest and you can rest for three days, but if you rest the room, you have to come around and pay for it. I don't want to give them any ideas about this. But it is the example that treatment itself is part of health care. If we consider health care as a free necessity — free of charge between quotes, because we actually pay it — if we do not pay directly for health care, we should not pay for treatment. Because if you don't, the attendance's half-way. Treatment as such is that right, and therefore we assume that it must be part of the guarantee of the health system. So we shouldn't pay an extra for him, as if he's doing it. Progressiveity, the bad progress that you make about the tree, is a mistake, is a failure of the concept; as they say about the textbooks of the schools. It's not about paying more than you have for a right. Rights are guaranteed absolutely for the entire population. What we're asking is that whoever else pays more taxes. That's right, they don't do tax amnesties and things like that. But what we do need is that rights are guaranteed for the entire population, because that's what we're equal about. We therefore consider it unjust in that sense. And it's ineffective. It says the real decree that it improves the quality and safety of the benefit. And you constantly argued that the system was becoming unsustainable by the old, accumulators of medicine in the homes. I think about those people who are accumulating shop in the houses to see if they sell it in the black market, there, putting drugs. We go to the data, because maybe it's very important that instead of using false arguments, we go to the data. The revenue number in 2006 in Galicia: 54.5 million. Number of revenue in 2012: nearly 61 million —60,8—. Number of recipes in 2016: 61.8. Since the introduction of this measure, the number of recipes has increased. Are we watching a series of old pill accumulators in your home, or are we prescribing too much? Because it's not the patient's fault that they prescribed too much. I don't say so, the president of the Galician Association of Family and Community Medicine, who literally says, "Who talks about system abuse is absolutely out of reality." If we're overwriting, if the system allows too much prescription, it's not the patient's fault. What's going on -- and this is a reality, and it's good enough that it's not PP's fault -- is that the population in Galicia is getting older, people get older. And when you get older -- and we have a lot of the larger population -- you consume a lot of drugs. It's not a problem for them to build up more. Now, you, who know, use that argument to say that there's a lot of bad people accumulating drugs at home and that you have to charge them so they don't accumulate so much. Poor them! The question is, therefore, that we're raising an old-age tax, which is basically the one that pays the coopergo more. You grow old, you're older, you're sicker, you're sicker, you're usually chronic, you're polymedicated, and then you're taxed. Because it's nothing more than charging people a tax because they have the problem of aging. Some older ones come well, others we prefer to stay as young as better. But we're charging a tax for being old, a disease tax. So it's absolutely ineffective. If the goal was to have these drug-accumulating people cut root, we're not doing it. Today, more is prescribed than when this decree was instituted. So we're not doing it and it's ineffective. Besides, it's inefficient, because it's absolutely insensitive. And on the quality of treatment and the effect on the patient, of which the decree, the Ministry's health barometer, of today's Ministry — which is not suspected of being a philo-communist or born of the bases of the proletariat, does not go there, says that 5.25 % of the Greeks — which translated to absolute data are approximately 140,000 people — have stopped taking any medication because they are very expensive, 140,000 people in Galicia who have stopped taking any medication because they are very expensive! I mean, the installation of the roof left 140,000 people without taking the right treatment. And I don't say it, the Ministry of Health says it — source of the INE and CIS, the health barometer. Galicia also has the lowest pensions in Spain, with an average under 700 euros a month, along with Extremeura. Ourense and Lugo are the two provinces with lower pensions in Spain, below 700 euros a month. The pensions in recent years, since the decree, amounted to 15 euros on average. What pensioners pay is 96 euros a year for these drugs — those that pay less, they have to pay more. So we're implementing a tax on people because they're old and sick to support something that we said was their fault but it's not, and with which we're basically financing the health system extra. Taking a little bit of one, a little bit of another and a little bit of another what we're doing is increasing our pharmaceutical expenditure -- but much of it at the cost of users. That this is as Lola Flores said when he entered prison: "If every Spanish gives me a peseta, I pay my bail." Well, this is more or less the same thing, if all the older people pay this payout, what we're doing is taking off their savings — 96 euros a year for someone who in four years went up to pension 15—. [[Applause]] And 96 euros a year, that for some it's not much and for us, that we're privileged of this system right now, it's not much, yes it's for many people; so I think it's absolutely inefficient. You live behind reality. Whoever made this decree was a soulless accountant, and it is necessary to step on the reality of the people who need that money and make those accounts. So we bring here a proposal, which is to repeal Decree 16/2012. Yes, but suppressing the effect of coke on Galicia. How? So we propose to start with the part that is possible, because it is possible to remove the payroll for retirees who cover less than 800 euros a month. In Spain two-thirds of pensions are below that limit — in Galicia, for the aging of the population, there are a few more — and they bear a lot of the burden of the crisis. I know you're going to tell me that pensions are for Spain. When you have to blame yourself, you become a somewhat nationalist party in that sense. I always congratulate the BNG for having managed to turn the PP into a nationalist party, because when you have to blame others they are only Welsh. But I do think, for example, that we like to go to other communities, that in the Valencian community there is a similar measure: to those retired under 1,000 euros a month, the autonomous community avoids that payment. That cost is about 47 million euros a year, more or less. The same thing that you saved in Switzerland, by the way. With Bárcenas perfectly regulated and without box B we had solved the problem of the coke in Galicia for a year. We thought it was possible. Where can we get the $40 million that it costs from? Well, since we had a negotiation to increase the deficit of autonomous communities by one tenth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u261	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u262	...I've finished -- from 0.5 to 0.6, which is going to assume that Galicia has a higher income than around 60 million euros, 40 million -- not all -- would be useful to cover that space and we'd be relieved of a right that would make older people not have to spend so much money, that for them there are many. So we do an assessment of the coke as unfair, ineffective and inefficient, because it's insensitive. And we have a reasonable, reasonable and calculated proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u263	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u264	So we thought that we really opened this debate and we were able to find out if it's best for our people that we can meet those needs in any other way and so we don't have to make people pay for pharmaceutical pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u266	Very good night. So on Tuesday at eight and a half o'clock in the afternoon we're in this Parliament talking again about health spores. And we're talking again almost five years after the People's Party's approval of Royal Decree Law 16/2012, which actually under that heading of urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the National Health System and improve the quality and safety of its benefits, which has been a real disease tax. And almost five years after his approval, we continued to speak of this infamous decree, because, besides, indeed, the branch minister, Mrs. Montserrat, after throwing a balloon probe to see what happened to the subject, because now all he says is that he's not in the schedule modifying the pharmaceutical fee. I mean, it's not in the schedule, which doesn't mean they don't have the intention, but not to delete this decree but to see who else can bleed. And the BNG defends a public, universal, free and funded health system through public budgets; based on these budgets in a system where the most people have, progressive, and that guarantees the redistribution of wealth. That is, not like the current situation, where 1% of the population accumulates much more than almost the other 99%. From the very first moment, the BNG rejected this royal decree. And we stand completely against it because it radically changed the health model, ended with the universality of health care, and set barriers to access to assistance to a very important part of the population, especially for those with the most economic problems. Because the People's Party practices what must be very weak with the powerful and very powerful with the weak. It's very practical to put in place measures that tighten up and put in more trouble the ones below, when then, for those above, no measures or measures to favor their lives. Of course, at the BNG we do not accept that health care is based on labour contributions. This means the exclusion of many people, essentially irregular administrative immigrants, but also young and young people who have never had access to work, long-term unemployed, immigrants, people who have to go out and then go around with difficulties. It meant the fragmentation of the service portfolio, introduced co-workers and meant the modification of the pharmaceutical benefit to expand the payroll and extend it, among others, to pensioners. These compensation measures — because we pay with our taxes, which means paying back, are not that you have to pay back, but instead pay back the drugs, dietary products... — they get out of the pharmaceutical supply around 500 drugs that are called "low therapeutic value" but that are essential for many pathologies, mainly chronic. In many of these drugs, 100 percent of them have been paid regardless of patient income. These compensations are a real disease tax, since it pays no more than the one else, but it pays more than the one who is sicker or sicker. This is a great achievement of the People's Party: that, instead of paying the most, it turns out that it pays the more sicker it is. Yes, Mr. Núñez Centeno, who is the sickest, is a real disease tax. And then we can go to what you think there are people who are sick above their possibilities. With which they invented that of economic deterrence, when the data are there, which was not deterred but what they did was that many people had gone from collecting these drugs, that deterrent element didn't work. What we had to ask ourselves is whether, five years after this approval, people are following up, if there are people who don't take the drugs, if there's more adherence... all those issues that the People's Party, despite having asked for them in this Parliament, have never submitted. That's why at the BNG we tabled an amendment to this initiative asking for the derogation of this royal decree and not to apply in Galicia. We ask the Government of Galicia to exercise its power in the German Government, not to systematically preach to what they say from Madrid, and that what you do is not to apply it in Galicia and demand its derogation. Because we believe that a measure that was approved by a stroke, without pity, regardless of the consequences, especially those most vulnerable people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u267	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u268	...have to be solved by a blow. That is, by derogating this decree and putting in place measures in the health field that basically protect those who have less. And, of course, this decree and its approval what he did was totally the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u269	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u270	Thank you, President. For one of the major health and economic problems in most countries is the dependence of the pharmaceutical industry — especially the macro-industry — on the maintenance of high patent costs and even the control of quotas, as is provided, in relation to the necessary medicines. And these circumstances weigh relatively heavily on the final amount of public health budgets and therefore put some of the right to health protection in hand. That's why they were so relevant also the amendments that In Marea presented in these budgets that were approved yesterday devoted to the research of public laboratories. The central government, in the middle of a crisis-staff, actually decided to shift part of that public expenditure that is made in the payment of drugs for private expenses, approving precisely that Royal Decree 16/2012 with a co-op on drugs, and in a direct attack on the working class; not only to the active working class but also to retirees and retirees who also belong to that working class. In addition, it has established a health apartheid for thousands of human beings whose health coverage has been removed. We return to frankism, where health care depends precisely on the contribution and insurance, leaving only urgent attention. Last week, once again, the opposition groups met with the Public Health Defense Platform and with the collectives working with people in situations of exclusion, denouncing this situation, the permanence of this situation — as Mrs Prado said — is now almost five years old. And we assumed the proposal that we were being moved, which had two points: firstly, that this Royal Decree 16/2012 should not apply in Galicia; and secondly, that its derogation from the Central Government should be sought. The proposal which the Socialist Party makes today is a partial proposal, that is, about the part of the real decree it has to do with drugs and how to not apply that compensation. Because we understand, logically, that in order not to apply it, some kind of measure would have to be taken, for example, like the decrees or rules that have already been adopted in other autonomous communities. We, in any case, if the proposal is to start with a group of people to go and remove that compensation, we understand that the criterion should not be so much whether they are pensioners or not, but actually that it is starting with people who have less resources, to move forward to other categories, to other levels of economic resources; understanding that not only the retired people suffer unfortunately this compensation, but also the workers and the workers. We're not wrong. That an autonomous community can handle this situation is fine, but it's also true that it's difficult to reach everyone. And it would be a good start to start with people who have the most difficulty. Because what the People's Party did is to sell us that excluded people who had less resources, but really only those people who earn a social integration income or those who stopped receiving a unemployment benefit are excluded. There are many others who do not fit within these margins, according to the 2015 People's Ombudsman's own report, in which it moved that the bulk of the people affected — those who pay 40% — are also people in precarious employment situations. And so if you have to choose and start somewhere, it should obviously be for people who have less resources. Because we have half a million poor people in Galicia and only 14,000 of them charge the risk, and only 40,000 have a non-contributory pension. And yet we are considering the second point, which is what we also agree on in addition to all groups with the Health Platform itself. Because it is true that this is a necessary measure, which has already been approved by other autonomous communities, so that this Royal Decree 16/2012 does not apply in Galicia. But the ultimate responsibility is who caused this problem, that is, the Central Government; and therefore, you have to demand the derogation from Royal Decree 16/2012 to end with the health apartheid, to end those reparations as well. But also to end with something important that came in the Royal Decree, and that's that distribution, that biasing of the fragmentation — or whatever they want to call it — of the common portfolio of services of the National Health System, because it opens the door to further privatization or the introduction of other reparations depending on what we're talking about. It is therefore essential to ask — as already stated — for a derogation from the Royal Decree, because we understand that health must be financed via taxes and not, of course, via apartheid health or through the implementation of pharmaceutical compensation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u271	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u272	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, or good night, gentlemen. To begin with, Mr. Torrado — I don't know if I'm a little busy with the time we've been here — it seems to me that in his intervention I was going to say, or that I was going to ask, that medication be free for the entire population. Because if the medication is really included in the care process, I don't know why there is reason to discern or distinguish between pensioners or not pensioners. Of course, they're not the biggest ones, they're, or we're, the young ones. A young man with a chronic illness bears much more than the greatest. I hope you present an initiative asking for the total freeness of drugs for all the collectives. Before I forget, the BNG amendment asks to violate the law. I suppose the Socialist Group will not vote on a point if what is asked is the non-compliance of a law. But, well, we can see everything. Of course, the reason why the Government of the People's Party had to pass this decree was clear, was the disastrous state of our National Health System at the end of 2011, which had 16. billion euros of debt, which had 200,000 people without the right to assistance, who had 1 billion euros spent on health tourism and had increased the expenditure of 38,000 million dollars from 2002, to 68,000 million people in 2011. That was the reason for the adoption of the decree, the only way to preserve and maintain the magnificent health and health system that we have in Spain, which the Socialist Party actually led to the breakdown. These measures have gained savings in all fields, reducing debts, i.e. paying the puppies they left us. This decree provided for a wide range of measures, of which today stands out, in the initiative, the pharmaceutical support of pensioners of Social Security. With those measures, what was done? Because it was possible to reduce by more than 14% the cost of revenue billing in pharmacy offices, reduce the average cost of the recipe and exponentially increase the use of generic drugs, without people losing access to the drugs needed for their treatment. In addition, the stacking of medicines that were produced in homes has been reduced. I'll give you figures. It has reached 45 million packages, as well as 3,700 tonnes a year recycled from the SIGRE pharmacies points. This accumulation cost 1.2 billion euros. And I'm not talking to you anymore about the burning in the village yards. I am a doctor of a town and I have record, I know, of this sort of thing. You, who are so demanding, I've never heard them claim the rights of retired staff members of the various mutualities, and mainly widows, with very small pensions and that they've always paid 30%. The Socialist Party has ruled Spain more years than any other party and has never done anything for this collective. Nor did they worry about the unemployed or those who received the Risga, who, with the progressive government of Mr Zapatero, paid 40% of the drugs and who, with this decree, stopped paying. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, people in unemployment without subsidies and their beneficiaries, people with disabilities, people affected by the toxic syndrome, people who receive income from social integration, non-contributory pensioners, all these groups, had to pay 40% of the drugs and with the actual decree passed by the People's Party they stopped paying. This is about medicines that are excluded from public funding. I have here the resolution, which says, "Employments of exclusion" — and quote them. "In accordance with Article 85 of Law 29/2006 of 26 July concerning the guarantees and rational use of medicinal products and health products, exclusion is motivated by...". I mean, the Socialist Party in 2006 passed a law that then, of course, failed to comply. In Spain, of course, there is no aid partner, which in most European countries, such as Germany, Belgium, Finland, Norway and Sweden. Spain, Denmark, Britain, or the United Kingdom, have — or we have — the smallest pharmaceutical copage. All of Europe, Canada, Australia and New Zealand pay a lot more for drugs than is paid here. Of course, we have a public health that is the envy of all the countries of the world. We are the third country in health efficiency, in a study by the Bloomberg Agency. Mr. Torrado states, in his explanatory statement, that Galicia has been pointed out as a reference to the application of reversive measures through the implantation of the pharmaceutical cup. I don't know why you're saying it, because here in Galicia, for example, from the first minute pensioners paid the share of coop and they didn't have to put the money forward, as it was in other autonomous communities. And since Galicia it has exported to the rest of the autonomous communities the catalogue of medicines — the "Catalogian", which was called the Socialist Party — which represented a very important saving for public buildings based on the use of generics and reference prices. Which, of course, was travelled by the Government of Zapatero, with the greatest joy on the part of the great pharmaceutical multinationals, who applauded with their ears. Also the popular Government of Galicia has just approved measures to help families who need it in the payment of medicines through the social services of the municipalities. In addition, in relation to the decree, the Greek Program for Social Protection of Public Health was also made, the first community, in September 2012, to develop a programme for the health care of immigrant populations that had not regulated their situation. In figures, ladies and gentlemen, the average arrival of pensioners in Galicia is below 4 euros each month. Only 25% of pensioners reach the monthly peak of EUR 8.23. The percentage of these people's total expenditure does not reach 5.75%. It's hard to believe this one's coming...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u273	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u274	...represents really a barrier to access to the pharmaceutical supply. That's why we're not going to support his initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. You have the floor, for the parliamentary group that is the author of the non-law motion, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u276	Thank you very much, President. Like not!, Bipartite and ZP. It was an obvious pill, this one. The elders are the ones who have the least and the pensioners are the ones who are the most infirm, so they're the ones who have to take care of the most. It's no one's whim, but evidence. In fact, you and I, Mr. Núñez Centeno, we know that the vast majority of the tree is given to the older people. You're also a family doctor and you know it perfectly. So I think it's a fact that I understand you share. And if not, they're the official Ministry data, which I insist they're there. Health was very bad in 2011. I remind you that most of health care is autonomous. But he was very bad because of Zapatero, fatal! If it was bad in 2011, you've been ruling here for a couple of years. I say it for any doubt. Question: but are there more recipes now or were there before? Sure, because you did here a dissertation. Are there more recipes now or were there before? What's that got to do with it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So it has to do with the following: if there are more recipes — as the Ministry says — it means that the coke is not efficient in reducing medicines, which is what is promoted to say that there is a reduction in drug consumption because there are people who welcome them in the house and stay there. That's easy. [[Applause]] The data is simple. Second question: have you saved or have you not saved? —because it's easy, and we're going to agree. Was it saved or not saved by this decree? He's saved. Of course, if you're saving now, we're acknowledging that saving is the cost of those who pay. So it's true, let's tax the sick so he pays and he doesn't have to pay the public health, which is the system. If it's too easy! [[Applause]] Did he save himself? Yes. Well then it's true: the sick are paying for the money the Administration is saving. And we believe that the Administration must pay for some part of the welfare system, in this case all of its medicines. Why? Because if we believe that, what we can't say is, no, this didn't make any effect. He saved himself because now this part pays them, but it's no effect. Yes, yes, it's an effect: we save from the public system, from the administration, and they pay those that have the least. But that's not what we share. We believe that people who have the right to such treatment cannot be offering the savings of the Health Council. Not in this case. We can discuss other cases, but in this case, no. Why? Because if you saved it, it's evidence. I just asked him. You gave me an answer, and now I give you a conclusion that it's quite logical. I know it's ZP's fault, don't worry. I liked the example of the stranger. But if you say that we have a great health, that we have it -- no, no, you're not going to cheat me by saying that we don't have a health, we have a great, but enormous, fantastic health -- then why do you want to look like everyone else? Why should I be an example to other European countries? Do you want to look like the European countries where it is working worse? He says they've got the coke, but we've got a great sanity. Well, then let's not copy the things that are wrong. Of course, they have the coke in Germany. Do you know what they include in Germany on the tree? Preventive medicine such as anti-stress treatments in spas. Cope for that. Well, I think it's okay, except in cases where it's strictly necessary. And in Italy, the doctor decides if the emergency isn't particularly urgent, because the services are saturated, and you have to pay 25 euros if the emergency wasn't right. Of course, these are things to rethink. By the way, in Portugal — which is also being paid — there are one and a half million Portuguese people who don't have a family doctor. And it's just, if we have good health, why copy things that are not right? And by the way, health was built in this country thanks to a Catalan minister, Ernest Lluch, who had a concept of health other than that of Mrs Dolors Montserrat — the game between Catalans remains. By the way, the per capita income was quite lower than now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u277	Finish up, please, and position yourself on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u278	I'm going to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u279	No, no, no, it's out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u280	Yes, yes, I'm done. Of course, more services are given now, but of course at the moment he was born with much less per capita income. As for the contributions of amendments to the derogation from the decree, it is clear that we support and share the amendments. Taking advantage of the fact that we have to vote tomorrow, we can talk about adjusting the issue of the amendment that I propose in Marea about changing the regulation point, because it is true that the SMI is smaller than the limit we put on pensioners, but we can adjust it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think what we'll do is fine, because we share the same line of work. Therefore, inefficient and inefficient. And I don't say, tell him his own data. What's the matter is that you can't leave a data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-07-DSPG015.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. Thank you very much for your intervention. [[Applause]] After this non-legislative proposal, we suspended the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
