ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mr Carlos López Crespo has justified the non-attendance of this plenary session. We enter the agenda, with the single point of this whole. Ditame debate and vote, issued by Commission 3rd, Economic, Business and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u2	The amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Galician Nationalist Bloc, the Socialists of Galicia and En Marea are kept to the full. The President of Commission 3rd, Economic, Farm and Budget Commission, Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, spoke for the presentation of the Commission's Ditam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u3	The bill was entered into Parliament's Register on October 20, 2017. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 20 October 2017, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of Parliament. The amendments to the whole were qualified on 13 November 2017. The parliamentary groups of En Marea, the Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block made amendments to the overall return of general budgets and of the sections' budgets, as well as non-devolutional amendments that transferred credits between applications of different sections or changed the total content of income and expenditure states. All amendments were discarded at the plenary session on November 20, 2017. The partial amendments detailed below were qualified on November 24 of the same year. People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia: amendments to the articulated, 15; amendments to the numerical states, 11; total, 26. Parliamentary Group of En Marea: amendments to the articulation, 42; amendments to the numerical states, 376; total, 418; Parliamentary Group of Socialists: amendments to the articulation, 61; amendments to the numerical states, 445; total, 506. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: amendments to the articulated, 34; amendments to the numerical states, 324; total, 358. Therefore, 152 amendments were presented to the articulated and 1,156 amendments to the numerical states, which make a total of 1,308 amendments. Commission 3rd, Economy, Farm and Budgets, at its meeting on 27 November, appointed the following speakers: People's Group of Galicia, Fr. Pedro Puy Fraga, holder; Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira, alternate. Parliamentary Group of En Marea: Don José Manuel Lago Peñas, holder; Don Antón Sánchez García, alternate. Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia: Don Abel Losada Álvarez, holder; Ms Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, alternate. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: Dona Noa Presas Bergantiños, headline; dona Olalla Rodil Fernández, alternate. The session was held on 28 November 2017 and the report was finalized containing the recommendations made to the Commission, consisting of the adoption of the amendments made by the People's Parliamentary Group. It also recommended approval of paragraphs 5, 12, 47 and 48 of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and of two transactions drawn up in amendments 5 and 56 of the same parliamentary group. With regard to the remaining amendments, the Ponencia, for the most part, recommended that the Commission reject the proposals presented to the articulated by the parliamentary groups of En Marea, the Socialists of Galicia and the Nationalist Galego bloc. Amendments to the expenditure statements submitted by these groups were pending for commission. The Commission, meeting on 7, 11 and 12 December 2017, adopted the report issued by the European Parliament and rejected those submitted to the statement of expenditure by the opposition parliamentary groups. The number of amendments kept for the plenary is as follows: Parliamentary Group of En Marea: amendments to the joint, 42; amendments to the numerical states, 376; a total of 418. Socialist Parliamentary Group: amendments to the articulated, 55; amendments to the numerical states, 445; a total of 500 amendments. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: amendments to the articulated, 34; amendments to the numerical states, 324; total of 358 amendments. So there are still processing pending at this full 1,276 amendments. The ditam consists of an articulated text and a numerical state consisting of income, expenditure and financial states. The total consolidated budget of the autonomous public sector amounts to EUR 10.723.973.161. The articulated text consists of a explanatory statement, followed by 60 articles, grouped into 6 titles, 20 additional provisions, 2 transitional provisions, 3 final provisions and 7 annexes. Title I refers to the approval of budgets and the modification of appropriations regime. Title II regulates staff costs. Title III shall be the one referred to in respect of obliging transactions and guarantees. Title IV regulates budgetary management. Title V is dedicated to the financing of local corporations. Title VI refers to tax rules, which include a single precept in relation to the criteria for the allocation of environmental damage tax and the wind canon, since most of the tax regulation is contained in the draft law on tax and administrative measures, which will be dealt with closely in this same plenary session. Finally, the deadline for the future law, as well as its date of entry into force, is determined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u4	Thank you, Mr. Losada. The debate therefore takes place on two points: the first point is the joint debate of spending states and a second point, which will be that of articulate. We begin with the first point, with the turn of the parliamentary groups to explain their position on the Commission's ruling and, if so, to defend the amendments maintained. [[Pause.]] We begin with the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and for that we have the floor of Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good day to all and all. Here we are, another year, in this final line of budget debate, which, unfortunately, the People's Party has reduced to a ritual that we repeat year after year. And the truth is, here we are getting to this end point basically just as we begin: with a president of the Union absent in the debate of budgets, blinded by his selfishness, convinced that he is in possession of absolute truth and unable to raise the view of his own nose and look at the problems and needs of the Greeks and the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the only thing we are going to share this block and this block is that the budgets define the policy of a government and that they are an X-ray of which are the needs and priorities of its Executive. And what are you telling us about Mr. Feijóo's accounts — absent — for 2018? Well, what they tell us is that Galicia doesn't matter, that there's no strategy to get citizens out of the pit, that they don't see that economic recovery of what you're talking about, and that the People's Party does the only thing it does is to discipline what Rajoy commands, in a strategy of subordination to Madrid, which places Galicia in political irrelevance. And an irrelevance that has lethal consequences in terms of financing, in terms of economic development, job creation and social welfare. I have to tell you that the best thing we can say about these budgets is that they are routine and affordable, the repetition of the same failed recipes that keep, therefore, a model that brings us to work precariousness, wages that do not allow us to arrive at the end of the month; budgets that, in addition, consolidate cuts in health, education, social protection. And ten years after the arrival of Mr. Feijóo's Montepío, the truth is that we are no better than in 2009, despite the alleged economic recovery, mantra that is repeating and repeating us and that what he does is trying to cover up the reality, the difficult reality that the social majority of this country lives. These budgets show that Mr Feijóo — absent from this debate — lacks a medium- and long-term plan for this country, and what they show us is that he is installed in a routine policy that brings us a more unequal Galicia with fewer opportunities. And these budgets also show that you persist in the most subtle policy of all, that of pre-power and arrogance, that you refuse each and every one of the 324 partial amendments submitted by the BNG, but that you also refuse each and every one of the amendments presented by the other opposition groups. Of course, why are you going to accept any amendments if you are in possession of absolute truth? The Pissress Feijóo is really her contribution to democracy in this Parliament. [[Applause]] But, however, the final question that we want to ask ourselves in this debate is really very simple, and it's the question that thousands of people who are not here but are concerned about what is going to be decided today in this House. And the question is if it's these budgets that Galicia needs to deal with the problems that the Greeks and the Greeks have and improve their lives. And I'm very sorry to have to say that the answer to that question is 'no', that these are the budgets of a complex president without country ambition, of a president who exercises as an applied student of Rajoy's centralism, are the accounts of those who renounce face-to-face with our interests and are budgets that repeat the same failed proposals that so much inequality and suffering cause the working class and the social majority of this country. That most of the Greeks and Greeks who are tired of listening to their canteen of economic recovery, a canteen who doesn't help them find work, which doesn't prevent thousands of people, young people, from having to emigrate, don't bring back the thousands of Greeks and Greeks who have already taken the suitcase in a country where we have a problem of aging and the loss of fearsome population. The canteen of recovery is not worth nothing to those people who can't pay their bills, that this Christmas will not be able to give gifts to their children and their daughters, or who still have problems not only to arrive at the end of the month, but to have a minimum quality of life. And these accounts won't allow them to have a better salary for those people, that new social modality of poor workers and workers who are creating the policies of the People's Party. Because look, as you proclaim the end of the crisis and the arrival of recovery, the cuts continue and are increasing poverty and social inequalities. We started this week with information, which collected many media, which is said to increase the number of people who receive the ransom, that is, the income of insertion to avoid social exclusion; I don't know if that is the achievement of that healthy and balanced recovery of what the Counsellor tells us. But we also have to analyze what is the work situation we have right now in our country, which actually leaves an X-ray screen, a more worrying situation. One thing is: unemployment has a worse behavior than the average of the state; the active population falls; the occupied population evolves worse than that of the state as a whole — it only has a worse behavior Extremadura—; the employment data are far from the pre-crisis stage; we have the third lowest wages of the state and there are nearly 200,000 people in our country who appear as busy but who have to survive with a wage that does not reach the 2,000 euros a year — imaginenen, gentlemen, living with 2,000 euros a year. But we also see how gender inequality is maintained and we maintain a 30% wage gap, and we see how we go out worse in job creation, with three points below the state average. But, as everything can't be negative, there is indeed an area in which we are beginning to be leaders in the state. And I'm almost asking for an ovation in this House on the achievements of this government, because we are indeed leaders in price growth; we lead the rise of the IPC and we have the greatest increase in the cost of living in a country where wages are among the lowest. And all because we pay for gasoline and the most expensive gas oil in Spain—unfortunately we have a refinery at the entrance of the Coruña—all because the price of the bill of light is fired—unfortunately we are net exporters of electricity—and all because we have one of the most expensive beaches in the whole state. And it's less bad that Mr Feijóo presides over that bilateral management commission between the AP-9 Board and Development. And this year, the Greeks and the Greeks already have the first result of this Joint-Fountain bilateral commission, with a rise of 3.8%, three times more than the average of the state. I imagine that's the contribution that we have to pay for the rescue of Madrid's radials; the state needs more resources and more funds to pay for these 4 billion euros, while we are told that we live on the solidarity of the state. But it is that, in addition, these budgets maintain the same policies that have made the crisis more intense and have caused a situation in which we have a fragile and unequal growth that is leading us to a deterioration of public services and an increase in inequality and precariousness. And in that sense, we are very concerned and worried not only about what is happening in our society, about the job model and the lack of quality jobs in Galicia, but also about the deterioration and privatization that the People's Party has of public service. We can talk about teaching, where we see how this course starts with 39 less units in child and primary education in public education, or we can check in this agenda data that are very revealing what the People's Party's commitment is: we saw in six years 64 schools were closed and 450 units in public education were removed, while in private education in this same period 243 units were created. And what you do, in addition, is shielding over the coming years many public resources for private education, while they continue to deteriorate public education. We see how in the public they continue with teaching staff frames below the needs of schools and students, with very high inter-internity rates. And we believe that it is essential to expand and stabilize staff paintings to improve the quality of education, and for that it is necessary to make broad offers that exceed the replacement rate. We must end up, in addition, with some elements that are deteriorating the quality of teaching, such as there are so many imports of affins, subjects where the teacher is not a specialist, and restore the teachers' rights by improving the working conditions and valuing the teaching role, because without well-trained staff it is impossible for our country to move forward. And we say that, if there is more money, the cuts that have occurred all these years, and the fact is that the 2018 accounts do not reverse the cuts produced in public education. The same way in health we're testing how you continue with this plan to demolish the gains in public health, with that privatization plan, and we're seeing how the waiting lists go up. And even today the most serious problem is the deterioration that is occurring in primary care. The bills that the People's Party wants to approve reduce primary care resources by almost 15%, and that leads to a person today who wants to attend their primary care appointment has a waiting list in some centers in our country for up to a week — one week! — to go to the primary care doctor. Those are the achievements of the People's Party, that's the way the People's Party has to defend public health. Of course, it's very worrying and we think that all of this needed a reversal. Just as we cannot share your diagnosis of the economic situation, and what is clear is that Galicia has serious problems and that there is a significant deterioration of our productive base. We see how the basic productive sectors continue against the ropes, both in agriculture and in fishing, where last week we had bad news because there are new cuts in our country's fishing capacity. Here we are in a diabolical situation. I appreciate you being here fishing advisor, because, of course, the strategy is always the same: they announce a bigger cut, so the cut is a little less than what was planned and they tell us that this is a wonder because they cut less than they announced. With that way of working, Counselor, of course, it will not solve the problems of the fishing sector, and it is a pity that you, instead of going there to defend the Galician fleet, had been defending the interests of other fleets which, of course, were not our country's. [[Applause]] In any case, as the cuts continue for our fleet, we have also had very important cuts in these years that are hypothecizing other aspects where the Greek economy had possibilities, and you at no time had any project or plan for the future, as it is in the field of innovation. In 2015, in the latest available data, what we see is how you put our country in the queue of R & D+i, the number of innovative companies — we are on alarming declines — and we see how these accounts do not have enough resources to recover all this time lost in innovation or, of course, have a serious plan that lets us trust that you have some serious project so that Galicia in this area can unravel. We see, therefore, that budgets do not serve to re-establish this situation, and we are very clear that, without a shift in economic policy, without a shift in social policy and without a shift in equality policies, we will not be able to face the challenges of the future. I've been thinking that thirty years in this country seeing Galicia lose population and that Galicia is getting older and older. And at this last stage Mr. Feijóo said one of his main concerns was to address the demographic challenge. However, the results do not accompany the appropriate policy being made. We're less and less, an older population, and since then the figures are really alarming. We've seen how during the Feijóo governments the Galician population has been reduced by 3%, that is 77,564 people; it's almost as if one of our country's cities had disappeared. And I know that demographic policies are medium-term, but at some point we're going to have to start flipping the line, and what we're looking at is how the situation gets more and more reproduced. And while this happens, you're telling us that we're going in the right direction and that there's no kind of problem. And we really see that there is a very negative behavior that puts us in -- let's say -- in the dynamics of countries that have the worst behavior and are more peripheral, as could be Hungary, Poland, Greece or Bulgaria, but we see how this is not the situation that is happening across Europe, and that there are other countries that are part of the backbone of the European Union that have experienced a growth in its population in these years. And yet here you tell us that everything goes very well and with your magic formulas Galicia doesn't have to worry about anything. Well, what we think is that the magic formula of the People's Party doesn't work and that's condemning us to a situation that's going to be very difficult to reverse if they don't start taking action. And what is clear is that there are objective data that demand a change in both the economic model, social policy, equality policies and innovation. And we, in our amendments, try at least to place the debate on those points, and what we meet is the Feijóo fans, who believe that they have absolute truth and, therefore, if we can afford luxury, in a situation of these characteristics, that we have a debate on budgets that you reduce to a ritual where they do not approve even one of the more than a thousand amendments that we have tabled since the opposition. Of course, it's all an exercise I think of political sovereignty, that which punishes the citizens of this country, that will have some accounts that will not solve their problems. And we, as I said, with all modesty, tried to make amends, both in the whole debate and now in the partial amendments, to put in place this shift in course, proposals for a new economic model that has as its starting point confidence in the possibilities of this country, which is bound by the redistribution of wealth, equality between men and women, social progress and sustainability. A strategy that had to have four pillars: a bet for knowledge and research, for closing productive cycles — because we must aspire to something more than exporting raw materials — for creating decent jobs and for setting up a model that respects our environment. But in fact, he did put himself in a loathsome way and here they don't listen to each other's reasons. And in that sense, let me tell you about some of the amendments that the People's Party can still pass today, because in the process in which we are still able to approve some of the amendments. We propose to allocate 25 million euros for a plan to improve the infrastructure and comprehensive sanitation of our rivers and rivers, because it is clear that, as much as the weather Ana had arrived, drought is still present in our country. We also propose EUR 75 million to put in place an improvement in road safety and mobility in the autonomic road network, 10 million for a leased public housing plan, EUR 5 million for the return of displaced companies, EUR 7.9 million for the promotion of industrialization by raising funds and creating jobs and gambling for innovation, a ship repair centre in Vigo or EUR 2.3 million for the promotion of local trade. In terms of employment, we think that we should start to have an impact on inequality between men and women, because we cannot accept a 30% wage gap — and there are amendments in that direction — or EUR 5 million to fund a specific aid line for those sectors, those segments of the population that have much more difficulty in finding employment or increasing support, the financing of autonomous people. In the field of health, we have an amendment battery that, first of all, they wanted to put in place a plan of shock against waiting lists in the public domain, allocating 110 million euros more, improving primary care and recovering the professionals who have been expelled by the cuts of the People's Party, equipping this mental health plan with 10 million euros — because political priorities have to be in budgets too — or including 45 million euros for the rescue of Vigo Hospital, because with each data we know it is more evident that you are favouring the business of a private company at the expense of people's right to health. In terms of social services, we propose €2.2 million to end waiting lists and therefore have more means for dependency and disability assessments, because it is obvious that there is a part of the problem there, because without that evaluation you can't access help and waiting times are too long. And, of course, we're still holding the hand that since the Government of Galicia and the People's Parliamentary Group we've been calling on those 150 million euros that you owe Galicia, because there are 17,000 people who are waiting and those you don't care about, uniquely and exclusively because you don't claim what we owe you. [[Applause]] Also among the amendments that so far you refuse are direct aids to alleviate the important damage to drought in the agricultural sector, 7 million euros, which do not cover insurance, and which are from now on drowning thousands of people in our country, who are about to make reality the slogan that this is the legislation of rural, but the fact is that you're the only one doing it is an empty slogan of content. We can also make a positive proposal today for our rural environment, such as providing resources to the Land Bank, because without any means it is impossible for that tool to be used. They have an amendment from our group and all the provisions to reach agreements in this area. We also propose that we rescue Galician Coast Guard Service, recovering its public character, because it is obvious that we cannot do business with life in the sea. And we've also continued to keep proposals so that we can strengthen the real capacity to face the fire strike. I think it's important that some amendments be adopted, which will allow us, first, to unravel their lies, because the amendments we approved today in relation to the ability of the municipalities to intervene in the firewalls, what they reveal is that the idea that they had all the instruments to be able to act was false and that there was legal insecurity on the part of the municipalities. [[Applause]] But there's something I'm convinced of — whether you recognize it or not, you know — that these measures will only be effective if they are endowed with economic resources, and when we have the municipalities drowned by the Montoro law, by an absolutely ridiculous financing system, what is not feasible is to carry them with more responsibility if they are not going to have economic resources as if they were to be able to carry them forward. And we would like there to be an agreement in this House that would allow these protection strips to be put in place if they really had economic resources so that we would not be in such a harsh situation as we were last October. And, therefore, what we would ask the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party is that they do not think laws can be applied without resources and that in this matter we can move forward and we do not approve laws that are soon left on wet paper. And finally, to mention, in the field of culture, to which we believe it is important to promote with EUR 30 million a plan of support for the Greek culture that includes the promotion of the book, the stage arts, music, audiovisual, support for our language, because, of course, we are facing a sector that has been severely punished during the economic crisis, which has suffocated in a very important way, and that at this time no country that is said to be modern and advanced does not support its culture, and that you therefore do not make a subtle policy in this area and that we reverse all the cuts that have occurred at this time. Similarly, we cannot understand how they can be against increasing university scholarships or supporting research or launching a free textbook program, because they are basic elements to facilitate equality in access to education. Finally, since BNG we have tabled 334 amendments to correct at least, even if it's a little bit, these 2018 accounts. We regret that not a single one had merited consideration on the part of the People's Party, which I believe is a further demonstration of its inability to dialogue, negotiate and reach agreements in this Parliament. Nor, of course, have many of the partial amendments we tabled to the articulated budget text, in which we wanted to increase by EUR 135 million in the income chapter, putting in place a more progressive taxation, betting for those who have more money also in the wealth tax, or with new taxes, for example for large commercial areas, and having EUR 30 million for support for local trade, or removing some of the bonuses that they make to the most people, such as reductions in inheritance tax and prayers. Finally, with these resources, we could better address the health needs in the field of education, in the field of public services, but you would prefer to give tax gifts to higher incomes instead of looking for the good of the social majority. Since the BNG, we have been defending budgets that are committed to social cohesion by shielding public services, by an economic model that closes productive cycles and generates quality jobs and by sustainable environmental development. But most of them make this an impossible mission, and these 2018 accounts aren't going to be enough to create the job that people still need to be unemployed, they're going to sink into inequalities and they won't revert the cuts into health, education, or ignore the wave of fires that our country has lived through. We will therefore leave this plenary without budgets that meet the needs of our country, because, of course, Mr. Feijóo has to always be a loyal militant of the People's Party and he anticipates that to defend Galicia's interests. Again, the President — absent — demonstrates that he prefers to be a faithful servant of Rajoy's centralism and of the cuts of Montoro to face this country and to defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. And the bill of his subordination, of his political irrelevance to which he drags us as a country, is very expensive and comes out of the pocket of the Greeks and the Greeks, an invoice that we are going to pay in the form of a tax scam, in energy policy, in a discriminatory and unfair financing, in delays in the AVE, in a rail transport of the 19th century outside of what is the axis The Vigo-Coruña, or an invoice in the form of depopulation, aging or emigration of new people. The antidote to dealing with this situation would be to give young people in Greece a decent job to live and work in our country, give them a job opportunity to the 200,000 boys and girls who picked up their suitcases so they can come back and organize their vital project here. But another year you're going to vote against the Return Plan that proposes the Galician Nationalist Block. And I regret that today the message that this Parliament is going to leave, for the work and grace of Feijóo's supporter, is the message of despair, that message of a government that has no ambition and country project, that ignores the proposals that make the opposition, but — the most serious — that ignores the reality and suffering of thousands of people in Galicia who continue to suffer the consequences of the crisis and the theft of rights. We, of course, believe that it is urgent to change course, to leave the sergism behind, to leave behind a government that says it rains to justify the ultimate discrimination and injury and that we need a government that is respected and that respects Galicia. None of this, unfortunately, is in next year's accounts, some budgets that only invite despair. You could at least partially correct yourself, but I'm afraid you're going to follow the ritual...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u6	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u7	...and in this session we will again see how the People's Party's keener throws dialogue, understanding and can improve these public accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u9	Mr President, advisers, honourable Members. We are here again to talk about the budget, which is in your state of expenditure and in your state of income exactly the same as you entered this Parliament a few weeks ago. There's no change, there's a little change in the articulated text of the law, but not in the states of expenditure and income, and so it's good that our position is going to be a counterposition, just like we've kept in the start-up process of these accounts. We said at that time that we had to recompose the social contract, that it had broken down during this period of crisis, and we also created that this budget did not make the effort necessary for this social contract to be recomposed to the extent that it was possible to give the state of our economic and financial situation, and therefore that it was a budget with little ambition, nor was it able to restore the social imbalances that the crisis had aggravated, and, on the contrary, it could, even taking into account both the side of income and the side of expenditure, make that imbalance more profound. He had an ambitious income policy that affected the ability to push the spending to the extent necessary. A few days ago, the press published data on the OECD set that in Spain the tax pressure was 33% and on average the European Union was almost 42%; therefore, a difference of 8 points compared to the European Union average; and this incorporates all those states of the former Eastern European, which have a much lower taxation than the average. So we're in the situation of Lithuania's fiscal pressure, but we want to have a public spending that generates levels of welfare similar to those of Sweden or Finland, and that's simply not possible, and these accounts go in a direction contrary to what would be reasonable. And thirdly, we also criticized these budgets because we believe they made a little bet for the future. One of the most dramatic consequences of the crisis is that all those elements that from the public, and in part from the private, allow us to prepare in better conditions the future came down, and it was necessary with the economic recovery to begin to restore that wound, to start filling that gap to better prepare the future, and we didn't believe that this budget was making it possible. That's why I'm telling you that, as there is no change, as there has been no change on the part of the Council of Galicia or the People's Parliamentary Group enough sensitivity to meet partially the demands of the opposition, it is good enough that our position will neither change nor continue to be contrary to this budget. The budget always has two basic functions -- we can say in many ways -- it has an internal function, directed to self-government itself; it's about ordering this administration, giving you indications of which priorities are, where it should be sent and where it should not, let's say that somehow guiding the functioning of the autonomous administration; and it has another very important function towards the outside, an external function. The Galician Union is the first economic agent in Galicia, moving resources that are around 16% or 17% of our country's gross domestic product; it is therefore extremely important to determine what happens in the whole of Galician economy, in one sense or another. And these are the two basic functions that this budget has. And it is operating in a new context — which we all agree on there — a context of economic recovery, a context where austerity as a political decision must be left behind. Even the European Union in its central bodies is aware of this, after the various international bodies were gradually abandoning the idea of expanding austerity, which was a kind of false mantra of the early years of the crisis. And today we realize that we need to change this for a more expansive, more aggressive policy. This has a problem for the Galician Union, which forces you to pass from a rigor speech to make a project for the future, you have to define what you want to do for the future. And I don't think she's ready for this. She's prepared for a policy of propaganda, which in the debate we had about the budget a few weeks ago I called it "a placebo effect," but not really to act on those problems that society and the economy of Galicia has and prepare it for the future. And I'll try to explain this in some detail. Internally, what happened to the board budget during the crisis? I'm going to talk about three questions. First of all, as a result of the Central Government's proceedings in 2012, the Galician Board acted, in relation to Chapter I, on staff costs, on staff costs, on two routes: firstly, by adjusting the salaries of public employees, and, secondly, through such low percentages of replenishment rates year after year, by adjusting in principle the number of fixed or stable public employees. Of course, like some basic services at the same time, which have direct consequences on the well-being of citizens, on which these are extremely sensitive, such as health care, would cause election costs, because at the same time that effort was made to keep wages even below and reduce fixed staff, the precariousness increased, because it was necessary to cover needs, obvious and obvious, in a staff box that was not too sober. And that means, in areas such as health care, it has greatly increased the precariousness of work, causing problems that go further — let's say — the mere dissatisfaction of citizens with this service, not only increasing waiting lists, but also making it difficult, for example, to operate many health centres, which see the staff broken down in an excessive way. Something like that, although on a lower level, it also happened in education. And at the same time, indeed, there was an adjustment, a containment in the staff boxes, which now the recovery would make it possible for them to recover at least partially. In our opinion, Cunta de Galicia is acting here -- we recognize this -- that is, there is a minimal effort -- through public job offers that occur too late, with too long processing, to act slightly on precariousness. But it's not done with enough decision, and it's not done — let's say — having a consistent plan for improving public services, which is what we would like; and it's not done using the possible resources for chapter I with the necessary decision either. We said a few weeks ago that it would be possible for the EUR 80 million in chapter I to be mobilised already in that sense. They are waiting for an agreement to be made to process the State's general budgets for 2018 and as a result of that processing to take place, because you know that the Government of Spain has planned to act on the salaries of government employees slightly, and therefore they are saving some resources to be able to meet this agreement which will surely be in the coming months, which will be basic and which will affect the whole administration. We say that it is possible, on the other hand, to use those resources and that there will be no difficulty in the future, given the levels of execution that you have in many parts, to meet when necessary, because that is determined by the general budgets of the State, that rise in the salaries of public employees. They're sterilizing for too long tens and tens of millions of euros that could serve a consistent improvement in basic public services, now. And we ask them to do this. If they don't do this, they're cheating on us what would be necessary to improve the living and welfare conditions of citizens in Galicia. It is not possible to have a first health care with excessive precariousness, it is not possible to have a first public education if we have second wages, it is not possible to have a quality public policy with third working conditions. None of this is possible, and we must act more decisively in this regard. Secondly, in relation to this internal area, you must make far more decisive adjustments to the fall in capital formation investments that have taken place in the autonomous public sphere — not only but also in the autonomic sector — during these years of crisis. In all areas of economic activity there is an adjustment of investment during crises, among other reasons because it is probably the game on which it is easier to act, but it is also the one which has worse consequences for the future. And then here we have a necessary arbitration between the short and the medium and long term, which must start to solve, and you don't do it with enough decision, you don't do it with enough decision. Possibly all the adjustment — I don't have the full accurate data now — between the 2008 and 2018 budget is made in the area of capital expenditure, all the adjustment, about EUR 1,400 million. I mean, basically in the current expenditure chapter, you're in the 2008 figures; in the rest of the capital expenditure, this is where all the adjustment takes place. Of course, this has some explanation. The net savings, which in 2008 was around 2,000 million euros, are now considerably below. What their capital expenditure effort is sustained is two revenue items: capital transfers from the European Union and partly from the Central Administration and net financial liabilities, which are still of some importance, and which in 2008 were zero. In fact, you have to be able to improve your net savings in order to increase capital expenditures, but that's exactly where an ambitious income policy is lacking, and that's exactly where you clearly perceive that you have little preparation for the future. You must pass the current set in these terms. What do you mean? During the expansion phase 2008-2009 there was an excessive credit facility, public revenues across Spain that depended too much on the real estate bubble, which were too easy, and, as a result of this cheap availability of resources, public capital investment actions were involved which in some cases did not meet criteria of necessity. It happened in all administrations, also in Galicia, and also during the time when it ruled the People's Party, until 2004-2005; and not just about the City of Culture, we could talk about many other examples. What happened since 2009? That credit became much more complicated, that public resources at the disposal of administrations fell very abruptly, very dramatic, and therefore the cost of opportunity of these resources to allocate investment was much higher and investment projects were abandoned. And today we are in a situation where there are clear investment needs in many areas that cannot be properly covered because you don't make the necessary effort in terms of income. And that's what we have to solve. We, in our cross-sectional amendments, in total amendments, pointed to investment in many areas: in the field of health centres, in the field of educational equipment, in the field of sanitation and in some infrastructures. Of course, we can't go to a model where all the required infrastructure is a necessary infrastructure. But we all also know that they exist in the field of autonomous competences infrastructures that are essential in order to be able to unlock some areas, to boost the competitiveness of others, that are not being made due to lack of resources; by setting an example, that which connected well Ferrol to the Navy is shining and allowing that entire area to connect through the A-8 with the Cantabria; competition of the Galician Union, is planned but is not being done due to insufficient resources. And, of course, we have a clear paradox. When we see what Mr. Montoro's ministry is doing by financing the indebtedness of self-governments, we realize that he's subsidizing all of them by allowing them to have interest rates well below the market interest rates. Therefore, the cost of self-debtedness administration is practically zero. Necessary investments, zero debt; possible to have 60 million more in 2017 and 60 million more in 2018, about, and you say no. They're engaged in a stricter fiscal consolidation, more aggressive than the one that's launching the set of self-governments. And this is inexplicable, because the zero cost is no longer meeting needs that could be very important to some areas: transport infrastructures and other types of infrastructures like what I used to say. We don't like this kind of procedure. That's why we think it's an investment with little ambition. And thirdly, it doesn't seem to us that they are producing, through the articulated budget text, the changes necessary to ensure a much more fluid execution of the budget. Here we are at the beginning of the cycle, but we are collecting information from years ago or this same year 2017 regarding the execution of the budget. Budget is a film, yes, we're now at the beginning, in the first frames, but we know what's going to happen at the end, because it's been happening these years. We know that there are certain spending programs that are going to have a very low run-level, so it doesn't matter what we put at first, because it's not going to be executed at the end. In the area of employment, for example, as we have told you for a long time; in the area of R & D+i, for example. True, this year's R & D+i matches increase, but it is done: in 2017 — third quarter, budget settlement — the degree of execution of the G & D+i program, 0.8%, 30 September — 0.8%!—. Or some rural development programs, which also have very low traditional executional figures. Or sustainable development of fishing areas; in 2016 the percentage of execution in that year of that program was below 30% and we followed the same in 2017. So you have to give an indication, through budget reforms, that you are understanding that something is happening with these areas of action so that we can believe that your budget proposal is a solvent proposal. Because if they give us some figures, and it turns out that in the end, in a consistent and repeated manner, others come out, because they will understand that we don't give ourselves too much of what they're doing. Then, on the external plane, we also have some quite serious concerns. The crisis left social wounds and left very serious economic insufficiency. In the 2018 budgets, some of these things — for example, the risk game increases — and some other social services programs have a remarkable increase. And we welcome those increases, although they seem to us to be insufficient and late, the two things. Because we still have too many needs in spite of recovery and it is necessary to realize that economic recovery is leaving sectors of the population behind, it is making important groups of the population that are not able to embark, at last, on that young man of recovery, they are not able to ascend to the tiovivo, and they are leaving out their expectations, their living conditions. To put some example, there are approximately 60,000 homes with active people without any kind of busy people. There are 33,000 non-income homes in Galicia. There are, still today, 95,000 people who appear in EPA statistics as long-term unemployed and who, in addition to those over 55 years of age in the last year, have increased long-term unemployed with these characteristics. We have a problem with it, while employment programmes that could be dedicated to improving the qualification and employability of this population sector are not running by the Galician Union. That's what's dramatic, that's what we say "placebo effect." They announce an increment of what they don't know and then they don't execute it. This is the grave thing, this is very serious. And there are still 9 percent of children living in homes that have no one busy. Or there are still about two thousand defeats in Galicia, one year after another. It seems to us that these are excessively serious figures. And yes, they increase the risk, a little bit, but the Galician Social Inclusion Act, which had to be ready a while ago and which should eliminate some risk management programs just to make it more effective, to remove waiting lists, to make people who have the right to risk can get it more easily, because nothing is known of it. And it would be essential to remove those problems. It would be essential that they have some greater attention to the dependency. True, it increases the amounts for the dependency, but it's still pending since 2012 that commitment by the Central Administration on agreed levels that are not met and which means an amount for Galicia that is now measured in hundreds of millions. Therefore, it would allow a full volume to be given to dependency management. They would need to have a much more aggressive residency policy. Is there a plan for legislation? We'll see what happens to him. But even if that plan had been fulfilled, we would be below the average of the autonomous Spanish communities, forcing many people in need to go to private homes and depend not on their pension but on their savings, if they have them, and, if not, on the assistance of their families, in order to maintain themselves in reasonable conditions. And so on. They have to make a major effort to be credible. And in economic matters because something like it — and I'm going to try to go a little faster —. I was listening the other day to the spokesperson of the People's Party talking about convergence, for example, with Spain, and it is true; that is, we have been converging with Spain since 2000 at a very interesting pace. But we did it mostly until 2009 and especially between 2005 and 2009, which was the only period, actually since 2004, to be exact. Between 2004 and 2009, we grew more than the total number of Spain in terms of GDP. It wasn't just because of the population adjustment at that time. From 2009 we were able to recover a point of convergence with Spain, all of it because our demographic dynamics are a more backward dynamic than that of the Spanish economy as a whole, only because of that. So let us not assume too much, because this happens — and it happens at least — is mainly derived from population adjustment. It was published a short time ago: our vegetable balance is growing negative, the worst forecasts of the Galego Institute of Statistics are being met, the worst medium-term population projections, which would take us in a period of decades — not too many — to lose the 2 million inhabitants clearly, to an unusually serious demographic regression in Spain. This is the path that is being outlined, a demographic crisis of enormous transcendence. And in the occupation then something similar. Do we gain productivity from work? Yes. Do we create enough jobs? No, no, no, no. What would we have to do? Then grow more than Spain so that the occupation will grow at least at the same rate as Spain and not lose productivity but gain it. Productivity is interesting, it's the one that's going to give us our standard of living towards the future, but we have to grow more, and for that it's essential to increase investment levels at a higher rate than is being done. And there's no benefit problem. I explained a few weeks ago that, as from the crisis the gross surplus of exploitation increased, part of wages in the functional distribution of income fell. It's the wage adjustment that's moving to more business benefits, but these business benefits don't move to investment. The data from the Banco de España clearly indicate that the ratio between credits and deposits in the four provinces of Greece is unfavourable for the credits, very unfavourable for the credits. And this is a central element, because that's what would allow, if there were enough investment opportunities, to push the Greek economy over the Spanish economy. And none of this is happening. So we have a problem. And the key question is whether the Galician Union is being an effective agent in this process. Are things happening because the Galician Union pushes them or happens because it does? Of course, exports go very well -- I recognize it, I've been saying it a long time ago. But if we remove Indidex, Citroën and finally a very limited number of large companies, because exports don't go so well. Indidex's exports, which are the ones that grow the most in recent years, have anything to do with the Galician Union? Would it be the same even though the policy of the Galician Union was different? In R & D+i, on the other hand, which is a source of competitiveness for the future and where the public sector is fundamental, it turns out that we are, yes, budgeting for the coming year a higher figure but starting from a level that should smile at us and with a degree of execution and effectiveness in its use as relatively low. Of course, the Autonomic Administration is asking agents like universities to help you manage business R & D, not university, but business. A recognition of insufficiency and failure. And in contrast, because we have a stopped Igape, a long-term management of European funds and a management of job training credits that leaves much to be desired, just where the Galician Union can act more decisively. And we're particularly concerned about the situation of youth, with an unemployment rate of 33% still, it's true that it's improving because the economic situation so allows and because there's a fall in the working population at a very important rate. But there is neither good training nor a good gateway to the labour market, and this is where the efforts of the Union should be concentrated. Occupational training and the participation of companies are still decades old, and we still have a serious insufficiency in access to postgraduate courses, master's courses, where people with less resources come from families with more need because they lack sufficient public support to extend their training. And all the studies indicate that this postgraduate training is key to determining who will be better integrated into the labour market in the future. So we have to do a program aimed at our consistent and future youth. Finally, two words in relation to the system of self-financing. You know that this should be solved by now and that this year 2018 begins a discussion that will be decisive for the future of the country. The figures published these days tell us that the 2009 financing model, so criticized by you, is a model that places us in terms of per capita financing adjusted above average, but that, however, when we take into account the extraordinary financing mechanisms put by Mr. Montoro at the service of the autonomous communities, which privilege above all those autonomous communities that comply with the norm, since by 2015 the adjusted per capita financing of Galicia, taking into account all the mechanisms, puts us under the average. And that's a unique responsibility of Mr. Montoro. And the point is that, just as they're critical with a model that puts us above average, they say nothing of a model that clearly places us under average, which gives us 1 euro per inhabitant in grant, when other autonomous communities give them 141, and they're important figures at the end of the year. There are autonomous communities that have received more than 5,000 million since 2012 for this path in implicit grant and Galicia received 29 to 2016. They're very important figures, and you're silent about this. Of course, I am concerned that an autonomous community president who renounces using the debt that he is authorized, who lowers taxes without any effect — as I explained the other day — on equity or on growth and who, in addition, refuses to criticize this act of Montoro, as will be presented before his colleagues to say:...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u10	Go finish, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u11	...in spite of all this, why do I need a lot more? I'm done. There's a basic match between the opposition groups. This seems very positive to me. We can disagree in some respects, but on these budgets we agree. And more or less each of us put changes on the table about five hundred million euros, which doesn't look much like a budget of nine thousand and peak, but which, however, when we know that the margins of the Galician Union have only three hundred million euros, that means more than doubling the actual margin of action of the Galician Union for the changes in the budget and therefore is very important. The budget which should enable us to recompose the social contract, that is, make it possible for the efficiency derived from the functioning of a more competitive market to be compatible with greater social integration and with the ability to prepare for the future which this budget clearly does not raise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u12	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u13	Good morning. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls from the rostrum. We would like to begin our exhibition, firstly, by wishing Mr. López Crespo a prompt recovery, who apologized for his assistance, and we would like him to recover as soon as possible so that he could come to this House and apologize for his statements from the previous plenary session. We believe that you should apologize in this House, ask the President of Parliament to request the voluntary withdrawal of his words, because we believe that it is no example to come to this forum to make statements absolutely contrary to equality between women and men, which is a bad way in the example for the eradication of macho conduct in our society, because it is not even a micromachism, it is a machismo with all the letters the expressions spoken here in the gallery at the previous parliamentary session, not only against the women who fight for their collective rights at work level, but who struggle for generally a more dignified life, but also a free and absolutely boisterous attack on the unions, that is, the group of people who defend the rights of others so that all, like Mr. Lopez Crespo and his family, can have paid holidays, weekend rest, basic working rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u14	That's the question, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u15	...the cost of the struggle of many people who have left their time, their sweat and more than once their blood. So we ask you to correct...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u16	That's the question, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u17	...his words. To the point. This is part of our question, because here, with our budgets, with our alternative proposals for amending budgets, we will propose greater sections for the fight for equality for the eradication of macho behaviors, of equal formation, also of public office, and so important are these declarations and therefore their public correction by a public servant, who can neither do nor say what he wants, but rather have to accommodate a number of minimum values that exist today in Greek society. We want an economy at the service of people and we want some budgets that guarantee social well-being and sustainable progress, all this in order to achieve for all and for all a fairer country than to leave anyone behind. That's why our way of formulating budgets for 2018 was, firstly, quantifying what the needs of the population were, what basic rights should be met, how much those basic rights cost and from there making the accounts. That's our way of understanding the economy: subjecting the economy to people's rights. We have done so, in addition to the legal principles with limitation even in relation to the spending rule, etc., and even if we do not share them, we respect them so that we can play in parliamentary dynamics. We believe that this is a necessity, the way to understand this way of drawing up budgets and subjugating their contents and splits. People's rights are basic. And why? Because it's a basic democracy rule. Democracy is not just a rule of the majority; most parliamentarians have been chosen by citizenship to secure and secure a series of rights to the population as a whole. Most parliamentarians aren't good enough to do what one wants to do, they're good enough to choose to secure the rights of the entire citizen. If not all those rights are guaranteed, most of them are used in illegitimate use. So when the Constitution, our Statute of Self-Government, international treaties collect the right to a quality education, they collect the right to universal public health, they collect the right to a series of social benefits, they finally collect the right to future expectations, the right to work, the right to work, the right to paid vacations — if, also, they collect our texts here -- they are giving a mandate to the majority of parliamentarians to make a proposal, and in Marea, as the first group of opposition, in view that the rights they say are not met, or that we have to ensure in the texts they record, we make a proposal of an alternative nature. But the question, to start talking, would be to ask: is this government, with these budgets, guaranteeing the rights that the population attends? Do these budgets serve to bring citizenship closer to the effective exercise of its rights? Or let's make it clear, or more clearly: is this good, for example, for people to get along by the end of the month? are these budgets good for everyone to get along by the end of the month? Well, look, 25.4% of the rate of poverty or social exclusion in Galicia right now shows no, that these budgets are not worth it. Is this all about getting people to work? About 15% unemployment shows no, that these budgets are not good for people to have their right to work. Is this good so that youth doesn't have to emigrate? Well, look, 200,000 people who have left Galicia under 35 years of age since 2009, where you rule, prove no, that they're not good for that. Is this good for the emigrants to return, but especially the young people who are working can return to the country with work opportunities? For the immigrant community in London, Edinburgh, Brussels, shows no that these budgets are not worth it. Is this true for women to cover as much as men do when they do equivalent work? For the EUR 400 average wage difference, 22% in the total wage mass of the difference between women and men, shows that no, these budgets are not for equality. These budgets are good for society to be more egalitarian and less macho? Well, the statements in Mr. López Crespo's past full prove no, that they're not enough. Is this true for women and men to decide on a responsible parenthood or maternity? Of course, Europe's lowest birth rate in Galicia shows that no, that's not good for this either. Is this good to give confidence and security to the whole population in their future? For 89% of work precariousness shows that it doesn't; 672,000 Welsh and Welsh with less than 700 euros a month shows that it doesn't, it doesn't generate confidence, it doesn't generate expectations; people aren't free to plan their lives calmly because they don't know if it's coming to the end of the month, because they don't know if they're going to charge the next month, because they don't know if they're going to have the minimum rights. Is this good for young people to make their usual language of Greek? Well the drop of 13 points in the last ten years among the younger speakers shows no. Do these budgets apply to ordering the territory rationally? Well, the October fire strike proves no. These budgets are worth ensuring people's health? The removal of health areas with reduced services in comarcal hospitals and primary care shows that no, the endless waiting lists prove no. No, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, their budgets are not worth ensuring that people have a better life, they're not worth ensuring that people have a more comfortable life. You and the president, wherever you find him, don't hurt Galicia. I am the government of the dictatorship of the precarious, the government of the Galician labor anomaly, where the active population falls, if employment is reduced and unemployment increases. I am the Government of inequality, poverty and social exclusion. I am the Government of the extermination of rural, of the economic exile of young people, of the expulsion of our businesses from the territory to other but better communicated, of the closure of schools and hospitals, of the endless waiting lists and those who deny medicines to the sick for economic and non-medical reasons — as happened to hepatitis C — those who privatize and those who deprive citizens of access to the remedies for infarctions in a reasonable time, thereby increasing the vital risk for those who suffer it. I am the Government who burned his prestige in the fire strike, who burned his facade of stone cardboard from good managers; the king was naked and stood in sight of the whole world who was naked, but neither the king nor his cut, drunks of his absolute majority, were found out, but the rest of society itself. We know that you are the rule-making, the bad managers, the incompetent and the painless of our country's problems. With the budgets of the People's Party, the People's Party has given up a redistribution of existing income and wealth, with a decrease in the weight of the budget in national wealth in percentage terms. Ten years ago the budgets were 20% of the country's wealth and today they are less than 15%. There's less capacity to redistribute, to make the public policy of allocation and effectiveness and redistribution and security of rights available to the world. There is more wealth than ever — I have told you yourself — but it is distributed less than ever. Therefore, the conclusion is that their budgets will generate more poverty and inequality in 2018 and economically will lead us to a loss of dynamism, employment and competitiveness. But no, the women and men of En Marea and the whole of the Greek society do not resign, we do not resign, we do not resign to their waning Galicia, to their incapacitated Galicia, to their no-future Galicia. We believe that we have a rich country, but it lives impoverished by its policies, and that is why we have already formulated an alternative of totality at the moment and today we have formulated an alternative within the limits laid down in this parliamentary procedure by law. And this is all to talk about another necessary budget, a possible budget that allows us to get closer to that country more just than anyone else is left behind. They are 376 amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea that seek to shield fundamental rights put in danger during the last decade by the cuts — relevant and teimuth — by the Government of Feijóo; 376 measures aimed at guaranteeing our right to health, to education, to have a decent home, to work, to have the right, finally to live lives. Our amendments, therefore, are the numerical translation of an alternative project for Galicia. And we do so taking into account the common good, which is everyone's, what's good for everyone, not the particular interests, as you do, taking care of people's needs, prioritizing people. Four fundamental axes I'll realize. First of all, the root of social justice, the need to guarantee gender equality between women and men, which, as we have just demonstrated, is very much, even in public discourse, of being real by whom the majority of parliament has. Equal opportunities, not just about the role, but about real life. Basic fundamental rights: health, education, well-being, poverty eradication and social inequality, and culture, education and language. Employment, safety at work; we have the highest job mortality rate in the Spanish state, which exceeds twice the average of the state. We want work rights when we work. We want decent wages, yes. We want to promote jobs for women and long-term unemployed. We want autonomous rights, not automatons. We want for our youth who can return, all those who have emigrated, all those who have emigrated; and those who have not done so that they have no need to do so because they have future prospects in our country. We want social upheaval, institutional upheaval so that they want to be parents or parents can exercise it responsibly and without fear of the uncertainty of the future that gives them the situation that we live in today. And then we want territorial justice, we want an integral policy for our territory. A living rural with services, civil protection and emergencies worthy of such a name and that can help the population when there are disasters like that of the black Sunday fire strike in October. We want a live forest and agribusiness. We want climate change to be assumed and, therefore, a cross-sectional strategy is set up to live in harmony with climate change and land reorganization and rationalization. And this is translated into those 376 amendments that were, within our ability, what we understand must satisfy these goods necessary for the population's whole. Starting with the Presidency and Vice-Presidentship and beginning — today was perhaps more important than other days — in the area of women's equality and fighting against gender violence, we demand an increase in the fight against gender-based violence, the inclusion of the workers of victims of violence, information, awareness of gender equality and gender-based violence in order to eradicate micromachisms, which, as we know, have nothing in micro. The one by López Crespo was an example, but we could remember that of the mayor of Noia, not so long ago; the one by Baltar, not so long ago; or the one by the mayor of King's Palace, who remains there despite being convicted of harassment by the secretary, supported by the People's Party, although he went down when he was given an oral trial. Much to be done in the field of equality, much to be done in the fight against micromachisms and macromachisms. The promotion of women's self-employment, awareness of equality and diversity the affective-sexual, and also shaped into concrete examples such as new foster homes for battered women, both in Compostela and in the Ourense area. In the matter of emergencies much has been spoken in recent months, within the discourse following the wave of fires, but then at the budgetary level, zero. That is why In Marea gives them the opportunity to be consistent with the speech they defend and therefore support amendments that seek, for example, the provision of masks and batalums for civil protection, the prevention and extinction of fires such as the development of Peifogue and the other tools for prevention and emergency take-up, the development of the Emergency Act itself or the effective installation of the single operating command, as well as the creation of forest research brigades, because we, if we budget them, would like to know whether you or not, and in case you do, can support our amendment, as well as the publication of services against the fires and the wage equalization of all the workers in that sector, something that you have committed yourself to and, however, will surely vote against. In the matter of justice in the past, we have unanimously approved a series of agreements derived from the demands of the collective of workers and workers of justice. Well, we have amendments that are intended to budget these commitments. They have a chance to support them. We also postulate a computer app in English, also a result of an agreement in this plenary during this year, as well as the promotion of the use of Greek in justice. We want to boost the metropolitan areas, and that's why we budget them both for mobility and sustainability, for job creation and quality of life in the metropolitan areas of our country, and, yes, for strengthening a land management that also avoids urban fires, as we saw in Vigo less than two months ago. As far as refugees, refugees and solidarity are concerned, we want once and for all to assume the commitments that this House has made at national and international level, our country, the whole state and the European Union, to end with the shame of those refugees who lose their lives trying to reach the European shores, the fulfilment of the commitments that we had to meet with the NGO coordinator, the increase also in solidarity areas, or the repeated commitment in this House to the Sahara people. For the Council of Health, we comply solely with the guarantee of the rights to health, and we denounce once again that this budget deepens in privatization and does not resolve the enormous imbalances reported by the Board of Auditors, such as the annual credit changes made to pay part-time contracts. It's a budget that, in addition, consolidates a gradual destruction of primary care and does not entail increases in public health personnel. We have tabled amendments to the whole, which have been rejected. Well, now in partials they have the opportunity to support budgets that, on our part, result in a reduction, yes, of departures in private health and also healing in public health, indeed. First of all, we want to recover the Vigo Hospital for the public; we have allocated part of the amount of the annual canons; the PP says that it is insufficient; yes, we know; but we, since it exists in Marea and already before the existence of AGE, have tabled amendments for this rescue; we have not eliminated all of the private parts because we know that there are commitments that need to be fulfilled but we reduce them as much as necessary for those commitments to be met and can meet other needs, such as the plan to prevent and promote health care, the creation of a public programme of R+D+i in a public laboratory, the increase of personnel, so necessary and that everyone sees when they access public centers, regardless of whom they have voted, because people have not voted for the People's Party to remove the doctor, and, however, when primary care goes, see that there are no doctors, the waiting lists overflow, they see that they reduce services in comarcas hospitals, they see that the dismantling of these health areas is consistent health services. That's what I see everyone, or I don't see Galician TV, because it's enough for them to be simple users and users of the health system to see it. Well, we want an increase of staff in public administration, primary care, specialized care, and the implementation of nursing specialties. Also, infrastructures that are necessary for the development of these services, such as in the hospitals of Montecelo, Pontevedra, Burela or Barbanza, with a number of necessary improvements. We've also described a number of measures that are intended for medical ambulances and care, which are missing in the country as a whole. We also want the improvement of our health centers and we also want to allocate the games that were originally planned for cures for an LGTBI health program. We don't want public health provision and rights for all people. We want him to be a priest, not a priest, because if he doesn't, he'll pass us by like in that vineyard of Davila when he asked him who came to visit his sick friend: "Do you hear, and you've got a cure? I have a cure; what I don't have is a doctor." That's what's happening in public health. Structurally, in addition, to produce the drift towards private, in such a way that a system that is not of collaboration but of subjugation to the interests of the private business is consolidated. And in the field of social policies we have three major axes. First of all, at the beginning of life, policies that produce birth; secondly, policies that breed old age; and thirdly, mainly by pivoting on the axes of functional diversity. These are policies that seek to reverse, firstly, a demographic crisis situation by which this parliamentary majority has done nothing until now, despite the fact that we have already had a full year of legislation. We need to build trust in people, we need to create a climate of social and institutional development that accompanies the entire age minority, as something necessary and indispensable to build trust in people who want to have children but don't know, because of the uncertainty of the future, how you can get them out of the way. It's part of the commitments that the Council should make and do. That's why we propose greater resources for children's schools, generally throughout the country, with a special impact in Lugo province. We want to expand public squares in children's schools. Not even the Council bond, with the assistance of the private, is responding to all the demand that exists in this regard. We want, in relation to older people, to attend as appropriate to a people who have lived, who have worked their whole life for others and who deserve not a decent retreat but a worthy third age, a third age with an active aging. We set the example of the center of Rianxo. There are another series of day centers that could be put in value, old-age residences, necessary to meet the needs of our seniors and which guarantee a basic right to life with dignity also in the third age. And that's why we make bets in all the provinces of our country, especially in those older districts, because we understand that betting on the territory means betting on the maintenance of services. But also, with regard to youth, that's why we make proposals from youth homes in places where there is a special demand for young people, and of course also the increase of funds to the centre of attention to people with disabilities, in the particular case of Ourense — which has already been brought during this session to this House — as well as an integral centre of minors, in this case in Santiago de Compostela, because it is one of the most pressing measures in our country, and we can't help the homeless at any of their stages of life. In the area of housing and infrastructure, the challenge is repeated. We're going to have to get rid of rent, even if we're going to lower our property, and we're not going to have to pay attention to this range of needs. There is neither a decent nor political housing policy that regulates the market. It is a structural problem that needs the intervention of the public power and is not happening, either, because of these budgets. In the area of rehabilitation, by far, half of the plans for rehabilitation have not been carried out in many of their modalities, and the Transport Plan is a real disaster, which produces road incommunicado in most of the rural municipalities in our country, as the municipal authorities themselves report with a different sign. We have proposals to improve the mobility of our country, the study of a nearby train to Galicia, the creation of a public transport company, the creation of a public housing park in renting regime, the need to articulate metropolitan transport to the districts of Pontevedra and Ourense, a rental aid program specifically for young people, a plan to prevent and fight against evictions, the improvement of communications through different high-capacity routes — for example, that of Ferrol-San Cibrao — the aid for the eradication of insurvivorship or intermodal in cities such as La Coruña and Lugo, as well as the construction of pedestrian paths and bike cars that facilitate mobility in dozens of municipalities in our country. The Council of Economics, Employment and Industry should also turn to the content of the budgets. We believe that we must strongly bet on the energy transition as the backbone of technological innovation, the creation of quality employment, energy saving and the defence of the environment. There is currently an absolute ineffectiveness, there is a lack of clear budgets and a lack of execution of budget shares in the employment promotion agenda, and we have brought to this House as during 2016 more than 54 million euros of games for different types of employment promotion have not been executed. There can't be less budgeting, as in 2018, and in addition games are not running. The People's Party, moreover, is inhibiting itself in the fight against energy poverty, leaving all the actions on the social bond of the State, and that seems absolutely unacceptable to us. Therefore, some of our proposals are an employment shock plan, against precariousness, from false autonomy to job stability; a special employment plan for long-term unemployed people; a wage and female employment plan, to end this totally bloody wage gap; a recovery plan for industries stopped for non-productive causes; a youth employment plan, which faces nearly 50% unemployment in this sector; a plan for the rescue of entrepreneurs with the right to second opportunity; a modernisation and innovation of trade in pemes and products marketed at the Greek level; financing, as a fundamental thing, of the social energy tariff for Galicia, to end once all with the shame of energy poverty; saving and energy efficiency at home; innovation policies for small and medium-sized enterprises; financing, as a matter of fact, of energy aid to Galicia, to end once again with the shame of energy poverty; and energy efficiency at home; innovation policies for small and medium-sized enterprises; and economic policies that are also necessary in this year's field of service rights, in order to strengthen new rights, as well as protection of animal welfare. The Council of the Sea, of course, suffered a new blow; rather, the coup suffered the people of the sea, and this time it was not a blow from the sea, it was a blow to the incompetence, again, of the inability of political relevance to manage the interests of our country in the matter of fishing quotas, in the matter of the bivalve control centre, etc. We believe other budgets are necessary to guarantee a number of minimums for the people of the sea. To begin with, the implementation of security and ballast measures within the rivers; an budget to reinforce and carry out adequate maintenance in port infrastructures that minimizes the damage caused annually by time, in a sector that does not count on healthy water and therefore cannot obtain better performance of its work, which is why we also target budget changes; an important part, which we aim to recover high-value species for the seafood sector, as is the case with fine plum; a game that we also aim for the optimization and energy efficiency of our fishing; and help research to make craft fishing more efficient and productive. As far as education is concerned, we make a clear commitment to public education and the culture of our country. In front of the People's Party's privatisation effort, from En Marea we bet for defending public services. Faced with the privatization of education, a People's Party that does nothing but increase the classrooms and concerted centers by negotiating with our rights, from En Marea we want to ensure a higher level of public education in German and possible quality. It is not acceptable that, as public classes decline, as we lose teachers and teachers in public education, as there is still a lack of essential, material and human means in public centers in this country, the money goes to concerted education. It is also not acceptable for it to continue to be financed with the money of the entire citizenry private Machist centers that segregate the student on the basis of sex. Secondly, in the face of the religious model of education that the People's Party defends and that it has intended to consecrate LOMCE, from En Marea we unequivocally bet on secular teaching. And thirdly, against the centralizing model and the culture of the popular party show, from En Marea we defend the universal right to culture, the necessary strengthening of basic culture and the independence of the sector. That's why we propose to abolish divisions for the Foundation of the City of Culture and for the Fundación Camilo José Cela, foundations which, in our understanding, are opaque and useless for the promotion of the culture of Greek and, in addition, disproportionate expenditure. And all of this through a series of measures that guarantee access to universal right to culture. To begin with, with a rural culture plan with three million euros, because it's either for everyone or not a universal right. In the same way, we walk in our amendment to promote cultural activities in the municipalities. And as culture also involves speaking of heritage, of course we also defend the need for a plan to recover the heritage of Greek. In addition to betting on the language, from En Marea we propose a series of measures to promote linguistic normalization, the promotion of the use of our language, and we do not resign to their linguistic extermination, which starts from teaching, even though they then say the opposite and blame families, as the president did last week. In the field of education we want to ensure public, secular and quality education. We want to get back the lost faculty staff over the last decade. We want maintenance and new buildings of an educational nature. We tabled amendments to equal opportunities and we also wanted equal education; so we also presented a training measure for teachers in this regard. As regards the environment, I have already commented: there is no solution to these budgets for a problem that we have serious, such as the destruction of biodiversity, which was decisive in the virulent extension of the wave of fires. No solutions are provided to cope with the drought set. Solutions against climate change are not provided; climate change causes drought, drought favors the worlds and without territory there is no future. For there are no economic budget actions to ensure all this. In the area of spatial planning, environmental management, we make a number of bets, for example for the drafting of the Vigo Municipal Management Plan, because, yes, land management reduces the risk of fires, even though you refused to include the territorial and management issue in the October fire strike study committee. We do a number of measures in relation to EDARs, in relation to parish sanitations, in terms of control of invasive species, impulse of natural parks, lindane contamination and the seal of certain landfills, etc. At the Fairy Council we present a plan to combat tax fraud for the great fortunes, which is economically endowed. Suppose they don't have anything against this either, do they? And in the field of the rural environment, the discourse of the territory, in the face of the fire speech, makes it necessary to address in full the fight against forest fires, the struggle for ordering the territory sustainably. It is necessary to make policies for the living rural environment, for an alternative forest model, but also a agribusiness, to assume climate change, to have a system of emergency and prevention and civil protection that really works, and finally with an orderly territory, where fires cannot reach the center of cities. We want, in this line of recovery of the rural environment, a rescue plan and improvement of the dairy sector, the energy self-sufficiency of agricultural holdings, the promotion of the mobility of abandoned or unproductive agricultural land by means of a decided impulse from Bantegal, a plan of shock against climate change, coordinated actions with the municipalities to ensure compliance with the law, the difference from what the judicially investigated Fernández-Couto have done during these years: not to guarantee the implementation of the law which is part of 16 of the thirty measures announced here as the great magic solution of Nuñez Feijóo. The solution is to comply with the law? Yes. For the solution that comes near In Marea is to provide budgets and resources for public administrations to comply with the law, in addition to a plan for incorporating young people into agriculture or the beginning of the creation of a new defense device in the prevention of fires. Finally — and I am finished — we do not resign ourselves, and, in defence of the common good, in defence of social justice, in defence of employment and of future expectations for the whole of Galician society, we are committed to an alternative model of a social character, but also of an economic nature, which we present here, and to which we ask for their support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u18	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Before I give the floor to Mr Puy of the People's Parliamentary Group, I would like to convey two information to you, Mr Villares. One, that Mr. López Crespo today cannot come through a process of illness; I don't know when he can return to this Parliament; he was alluded to and I think it is appropriate to inform him of the following: Mr. López Crespo has already answered and somehow apologized for what happened in that plenary; that letter has already been moved. And secondly, I have already arranged my meeting with the representatives of the Workers' Committees; I think this is important for you to know. And also another question that I think is also important for you to know: Mr. Baltar's case has already been filed and you suppose you have the utmost respect for justice; that's why I tell you, nothing else. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Murmurs.]] I told Mr. Villares about justice. I suppose he will, and you too — I hope — will. Mr. Puy, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Villares, you know that I, in the politician, am very far away but I have a certain personal appreciation, and that's why let me give you advice in connection with statements that you just included in the part of the breath of your intervention — which had a purpose but had another one that was very combative —. You said something about micromachism. This reminded me of a joke, anecdote telling the philosopher Zizek, attributed to Lacan — as you know who he is, I don't give any more explanations. Zizek says Lacan told me that when someone yells "the king goes naked," he could answer with a thing like that person who yells that "the king goes naked," "he's also naked under his clothes." And I say this because, if you want to come dressed to criticize micromachism, you could start by doing two things: firstly, to recognize, as you said, that Mr. Baltar, by the declared justice filed, is not a stalker; and secondly, you could also repeat the memes that your mayor assigns to him by making him grace, the masculine ridicule of the spokesperson of the People's Group in the Coruña. [[Applause]] That said, let's move on to the budgets. This is indeed the last debate on the 2018 budgets. I, first of all, want to thank you, even though nothing more than some amendments have been accepted, the dialogue we had with the opposition groups. I believe that dialogue has been fruitful and even contributes to the location of which are the positions of each group on these issues. In the end, we do not have to change the total non-financial expenditure of the Union, EUR 9,487 million, an increase of 3.7%, which has been criticised. The other day, for example, the budgets of one of the provincial entities were presented, and they grew by 2.95 percent, and they were said to be the best in the history of that institution. We have to get all the figures in line. We are in a context where the economy grows above 3%, GDP per capita hits its historical record —89.1% —, Galicia's available income is even greater — 92.5% —, this context of growth and this context of convergence in GDP per capita, which was indeed the community 17 in 2000, 12 in 2008 and 2016 we are at 10. It is true, therefore, that it has also continued to converge in GDP per capita during this stage of crisis and, in addition, with redistribution. I always remember it, because some issues have been mentioned here in relation to self-financing and state spending, which the inhabitants of Galicia have an income of 3.4% higher than GDP per inhabitant than the average. We're in a context where wages also start to recover. Today he even made public his quarterly labour cost survey the INE. INE places Galicia as the ninth community where wages grow the most, still below average, but they grow much more than the average, 2%, when it grows in Spain is 0.4%. I suppose, sharing this concern for low wages, that we'll all be glad to see that in this quarter wages grew by 2%, when the average in Spain is 0.4%. So there's also a convergence in which there's still work, because we're the ninth community, so it's also good to improve that. We have some accounts that generate gross savings, 845 million, which implies a greater capacity to finance investment, 1,570 million, with only 193 million debt, and, in addition, with savings in debt interest, 63 million euros. There's a remarkable difference with the budgets, which are always brought to us from the year 2009, which were much higher but they had, in addition to 800 million indebtedness, 1,600 million euros that we still pay as a result of the deliveries to account, which resulted in very high negative liquidations. We have, therefore, much more sustainable budgets, much more social budgets, with more investment, and so I share that these are budgets for a better economy, a healthy economy. The priorities are clear. Social spending is 7.110 million euros in this budget -- it's 331 million euros more than last year, 1 billion more than in 2014 -- and investment increases by 6.5%. In absolute terms, in addition, Galicia is the community that is having more real investment in the state as a whole. For example, in 2016 we were 689,000,000 euros, in front of the autonomous communities that had many more budgetary resources, such as Catalonia —460 — or Andalusia —480 —. By analyzing the total capital expenditure, the execution in Galicia was much higher than the average: in Galicia, 76%; the average of autonomous communities, 70%. And if we're talking about the total execution of capital expenditure, where it goes on exercise, we're also on top; in the case of Chapter VI, 47%, compared to 31% of the average, and in the total, including the other investment chapters, Galicia is carrying in this year 37%, compared to 32%. We are therefore the second autonomous community that has made a more investment effort in the crisis, and we continue to seal in 2017—9% against 4.5% on the budget of the rest of the autonomous communities. And all of this with a tax system that continues to be progressive in the IRPF. We lowered the rates for 80% of taxpayers with lower income. It is also redistributive in property tax — about this later — and it is selective in tax expenditure, with a social component: 93% of the tax expenditure, of the 396 million euros of tax expenditure, are clearly redistributive, benefit for example the numerous families, of whom only recently came out a survey that says that 47% of the large families do not arrive easily at the end of the month; therefore, there is support for numerous families and other people and groups who are affected by different reasons or who have a problem of horizontal equity in relation to the rest of the citizenship. And finally, they're clear what the cost priorities are. They say there is no model; the model reflects expenditure priorities. I want to remember that in health, in relation to the 2009 budget, which was 10.500 million non-financial expenditure, we increased from 3,700 million to 3,850 million euros; that is, we increased from 35% to 40% of total health expenditure. This says that health is a priority, obviously; if not, it would remain at the same percentage or even have decreased. A report from The Lancet has just been published saying that Spain is the fourth health of the world, comparable to that of Finland, that of Sweden, but we in the end must be a failure, because if we assume that what we want is to dismantle public health, we are actually doing it very bad, as well as in Sweden or Norway, at least. We went from 22.8% to 24% in education. In social action and social promotion, from 5.4% to 7.7%. In short, it's clear what priorities are, that now too, at a time of recovery, they emphasize the productive sectors. And, in particular, the expenditure on R & D+i, as the Socialist spokesperson acknowledged — which he is grateful for — actually increases since 1.3%, in which he was in 2009, to 1.6% that goes in the budgets of 2018, still insufficient, certainly, and will probably be one of the issues to be reported. There are more priorities. Mrs. Pontón brought a bad example. For example, teacher training; in the budgets of the year 2018, 53% increases in relation to this year. It's said we spend little on teacher training. We also talked about the educational concerts. In 2008-2009 213 were signed in four years — sorry — from the year of the Bipartite, from 2005-2006 to 2009, 3,836 concerts, 213 concerts in four years; currently 3,913, that is 77 more, that were in eight years. You were doing 53 concerts each year in education and we did 9, but with a peculiarity: what are the concerts in? For the new vocational training cycles — 2,000 hours of education, distributed in two years — or for the new basic vocational training cycles. We have 50% more vocational training enrolled than we were in 2008. This is fundamental, because it is precisely where we are working in the future of the employability of young Greeks, and it is precisely a number of figures that we feel particularly satisfied with given the high employability rate that they have that end their vocational training studies. And we will continue to make comparisons of priorities. Of the 113 million that were given to the municipalities, we went to 120 in 2018, a 6.8 increase. The universities received 338 and now receive 421, 24% increase. Health concerts also decreased from 338 million in the last Bipartite exercise to 205, a fall of 5.7%. Dependency, on the other hand, has grown; on the dependency, we have gone from 14,000 people to 50,000 with the goal of 2018 to 60,000. The home help service multiplied by 6; publicly funded spread squares increased by 47%, and the libraries increased by 106%. We certainly also reduce high-level spending, for example, by 36% and cabinets by 30%. And we're also seeing what our priorities are in execution. I believe that in the execution of the budget — which has been made here several allusions — it is appropriate to remember that Galicia has executed above 100% of the budgets approved in this House. That means that there was more income and that, therefore, if you made a spending, you spent all the budget. So when we talk about non-executing games, that means others have been executed above what this House approved. So I want to remember — when you criticize what has not been executed — that is what has been overexecuted, because that is exactly where you see the political priorities of this Government: Sergas, 109.5%; the Agricultural Guarantee Fund — Fogga — 281% — corrects the milk price crisis; the Social Services Agency, 102%; in employment, special aid to workers affected by ERE has been overrun by 163%; the working schools at 105.7%; and the job placement of people with Risk at 119.5%. Or in social expenses, teaching facilities, 200%; school libraries, 286%; acquisition of school materials, 162%; dependent centers, 144%; and Risga, 108%. Therefore, we know what the priorities of this Government are and I think it is difficult — keeping an investment level that is at the head of the autonomous communities and with these increases — because, indeed, they can criticize that there is some game that has not been implemented. I remember that workers' training has been very questioned, and we all have to give them a thought as to how workers' training can be done to improve the employability of the unemployed. But remember what the Court of Auditors said in relation to the previous system in which huge money was injected that was basically used to finance the intermediary agents, but they could hardly improve the situation of employability of unemployed people in Spain, and specifically in Galicia as well. You're critical of us not accepting any amendments. We were told of arrogance, that we are in possession of the truth, and we were told that we were politically sovereign. Well, I want to relativise the subject of amendments to budgets, specifically from amendments to budgets. Because I suppose, Mrs. Pontón, that if you see us proud, you will also see the mayor of Pontevedra, who did not accept a single amendment from the opposition groups in the budget that he just approved. Or I suppose you'll also see Vigo's mayor, who didn't accept a single amendment from the Popular Group or any other group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Or you will also see the mayor of the Coruña, who is of the Tide, and he has not accepted any amendment from any opposition group. [[Murmurs.]] And precisely because this is the usual in the budgets, I will not see sovereignty in any of the people I have just mentioned, not even in Mrs. Pontón. And so what I mean is that this is common in the budgetary field, because it's actually difficult to make amendments given the restrictions on the right to amend. What if I wanted to value what we did, and we did two or three that I think are relevant: expanding the games for student scholarships, expanding the games to help those who suffered damage from the fires last October and increasing the transparency of this House, which will also know when the new agencies that are coming are their budgets. Why don't we accept as many amendments as you would like? Well, there's a couple of reasons. The first reason is that we've been rejecting exactly the same amendments for years, and I want to give you an example. For example, since 2013 the Socialist Group and the BNG have been asking in their amendments to establish a parliamentary control office in the Galician Parliament. Exactly the same amendment, that of the PSdG word for word and the BNG through state of expenditure. In 2015, however, this House amended the Regulatory Law of the Board of Auditors and introduced among the functions of this body the following: to attend Parliament's consultations on the budgets of the Autonomous Community and its execution and liquidation, and to issue opinion by request of Parliament or the Board on regulatory projects affecting public revenue or expenditure. I mean, exactly what a budget office does you're asking for. We changed the law of the Board of Auditors precisely to help the House in its budgetary control work. You ask that if you create a budget office over and over again, we answer that this is already done by this way. But it's just that even in his amendment they're not proposing to correct the Board of Auditors Act, because if you create an office, the logic would be to remove this function from those who already have it, which is the Board of Auditors. Secondly, public-private collaborations. We started these debates by making a mistake in the accounts that were coming — which were immediately corrected by the Government — with a very broad criticism of the Block because spending in public-private collaboration was increasing. Once corrected the error, because last year no new public-private collaboration has been increased or made, because they come back to the subject of which we are privatizing. Last year there was no new public-private collaboration, but in addition to 2010 we agreed with the Socialist Group a regulation to improve the control and transparency of these partnerships, which in the year 2013 — the biggest — was included in the Rationalization Act within the title dedicated to public procurement standards. And after all these years, still in these budgets, they continue to amend as if nothing happened in relation to public-private collaboration. Third example, property tax. In 2013 we reached an agreement with the Socialist Group once again. They propose to rise by 15% the type and lower the minimum exempt to 500,000 euros. We agreed and voted together to raise the type to 20% in return for not lowering the minimum exemption. And now in the amendments this year, they also have to lower it, but even more, up to 400,000 euros. We are the Autonomous Community in which this tax, which is clearly redistributive, is a tax figure very controversial by its own nature, and that we are justified precisely by the crisis situation that we are suffering, and that it is already beginning to generate effects of foot voting towards other autonomous communities, in particular Madrid. Something the experts in your report take into account and we believe that we must seriously value it. Finally, what do we have to do? So they tell us we don't make a deal? Or do we present the same amendments and keep them over time? Or, well, we maintain some consistency when there is a reasonable proposal, such as the one we accept and include this year of the Socialist Group. When we repeat those that we've already said that we don't or even regulate, and that we even deal with you, because we logically keep the word given. Well, secondly, there's a second reason it has to do with the impossibility of accepting some amendments. For you, I know that this has a political component and that what you're trying to do is also to sell a political idea that you can do things differently. Mrs Presas — I am very grateful for your work in Commission 3a — said that we are in a political debate, that this is not a technical debate. Well, I want to remember that this is a political debate, it's a technical debate, because we're talking about accounting states, and it's a legal debate, after all, we're going to vote for a law; it's a very broad debate where politics actually has a lot to do with it. And they present amendments to this political discourse that cannot be accepted. For example, when amendments are presented to us that what they want is to reduce demand charges or payments to the Public Investment Society, stop putting forward commitments approved to pay new commitments, because of course that cannot be accepted. Why? For we would cease to fulfill our commitments, many of them who come from behind, works of the Bipartite; for example, in the beaches in the shadow. Others of their amendments are financed by reducing current expenditure, specifically from cabinet games. I've already said that the high offices have been reduced by 40%; eventually staff by 30%; meetings, courses and conferences by 60%; office materials by 50%. Man, it's a short time to scratch, we understand. And they also want to fund splits by removing revenue from public entities, but without taking the corresponding expenses away from them. For example, they want to do new works with money that are dedicated to the Infrastructure Agency, the Technology Modernization Agency, the Galaga Innovation Agency or the Welfare Consortium. But, yes, they never clarify within these same consortia or agencies that I spend, you have to go down. This way, then, what do we find ourselves with? So we've found that, in fact, there are decisions that are political, that we have adopted and put in budgets, but what you do is just say: you get the money out of wherever you want. Why? Because they defend, for example, investing 10 million euros more in public housing — which is a very laudable goal — but they do not say that this is what needs to be removed from the Infrastructure Agency: the Ártebra road, the expansion of the Morrazo highway, the connection to the San Cibrao polygon. They don't specify it. We do politics and we say we have to do this, you say we have to spend 10 million more, but they don't say where they come from. It defends the PSdG, for example, 1.5 million more in the actions for the Greeks in emigration, and they take us out of the transfers to the Modernization Agency, but without specifying whether we're taking money from the high-capacity Internet extension of the business polygons to Galicia's single electronic social history or digital memory. The Weirlands want to invest 9.8 million in a contingency plan against precariousness. But it seems to me that it is not politically to choose not to specify whether they want to cancel the Opportunius Program at the beginning and that they have driven the recruitment of 300 researchers, whether they want to stop financing the improvement of the Greek technology centres or cancel the Connect Peme Program and leave small and medium-sized companies out of innovation programs. And it's perfectly legitimate for you to want to change your spending, which is not legitimate to say that you put more money without saying where it comes from. And that's why we cannot accept, secondly, those amendments. Above all, when not even the games that incorporate the increase are always justified or reasoned. In the discussions in the Commission, my colleague Julia Rodríguez reminded them that the increase that Les Mareas are asking for in the budget to take direct management of the consortia of firemen is contradictory to what they have been saying, that the public consortia of firemen would be cheaper than with the current management of Junta. Or as comrade Marta Rodríguez Arias also told them, the amendments they introduce in social matters don't give what you ask for. They call for a total of EUR 17.6 million of 46 social infrastructures, which would need at least EUR 75 million for their construction. In education, as my colleague César Fernández Gil pointed out, staff salaries increase without increasing social security contributions in time, so that we would put ourselves in a situation of much greater precariousness. And as you've also noticed and informed our colleague Aurelio Núñez, you come to ask for departures for the construction of health centres that are already inaugurated, like, for example, that of Somozas, inaugurated in 2014 by the former Health Counsellor. Well, we believe that we have to support these budgets. We are going to do so against what is said, because these budgets — even for expenditure priorities — meet Galicia's priorities. They say there's no plan, well, I want to remind them that there's something that happened through this House, which is called the Strategic Plan of Galicia. It was carried out by government experts, university experts and even improved with some of the contributions that have been made in this House. We're doing the strategic plan. They read the memory of how this budget is adjusted to what is expected in the Budget Plan, even with growth rates higher than at that time it seemed to us an ambitious target, which was 2.5 % growth, when we're at 3%. In this way, the major transversal objectives of the plan — which are the impetus of innovation, the promotion of entrepreneurship and internationalisation, demographic dynamisation and territorial cohesion — are gathered in these budgets. For example, with the increase of 26% in the Galician Innovation Agency; with the increase of 25% in Igape shares, which finance the entrepreneurship and export programmes; with the increase of 8% in the family and demographic areas, intended to finance programmes such as the Welcome Card, the Bono Conciliia, the Bono Cuidado or the children's homes; and with increases in large areas supporting the fixing of population in rural areas and therefore territorial cohesion: parts such as those relating to the partial restitution, the modernization of farms or investments in processing and marketing of agricultural products. All of this together with the consolidation of fiscal incentives policy for rural investment. As a result of rejecting this project that is consistent with the objectives of the Strategic Plan and replacing it with one of the proposals that today brings us back to the opposition, it would substantially change the marked planning, and that's exactly the kind of improvisation that we don't want to make. And the second reason why we think these budgets are adjusted to a plan is related to the electoral program. Because these budgets, in addition to being consistent with the Strategic Plan, are consistent with something that is important to us, which is to carry out what we said in the electoral programme. In the election program we said we were going to maintain selective tax reductions, and in these budgets these selective tax reductions are maintained. We said we were going to put in place a strategy for the autonomous, and in these budgets there is a strategy for the autonomous. We said that we were going to promote intermodality in the transport and impulse of pedestrian and cyclist paths, and in these budgets there is the impulse to intermodality in the transport and the impulse of pedestrian and cyclist paths. We said we were going to help clean up the laughs, and with these budgets we're helping to clean up the laughs. We said we were going to extend telecare and hospitalization home, and with these budgets we're doing it. In the same way that we are betting on vocational training, on strengthening the attention to dependency, on increasing funds to fight against violence by men, on encouraging the incorporation of young people into agricultural and fisheries activities, and, therefore, all the major priorities announced, and even small ones, because these budgets include some commitments made in the electoral campaign. For example, the new faculty of medicine in Santiago; the connection of the Ártabra and AP-9 route in the Coruña area; the start of the comprehensive reform of the Ferrol and Gran Montecelo Hospital in Pontevedra; the conversion of the General Hospital and the City of Justice of Vigo; the road connections of the San Cibrao polygon in the Ourense area, or the funds for the various projects formulated for the residential area in Lugo. So there's a plan, there's a strategic plan, there's an electoral program. I understand that you are in the democratic obligation to formulate criticisms and to give alternatives, not always very coherent, because you also have to do that representative function, but allow me, to conclude, to end by congratulating the Government on bringing to this House a budget project according to the preferences of citizenship, which gave us its confidence to do and implement this electoral program, which is also a majority confidence. Because Galicia believes in growth-based sustainability, the prioritization of social spending and the empowerment of employment through training, support for internationalisation or innovation and support for self-employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. We now turn to the parliamentary groups to define the amendments that are being defended by others. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am going to start with the simplest, which is to position ourselves on the amendments from the other groups, and from the BNG, in addition to we can maintain differences in nuance regarding the concrete proposals from the rest of the groups, we will support all the amendments tabled by the opposition, because we believe there is a common element that unites us, which is the criticism of some budgets that are for nothing the best or those that need this country. And on the speech of the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group, finally for Mr Puy, the fruitful dialogue is that budgets only approve the errors of the People's Party in these budgets, and that more than thousands of amendments to the opposition fall into broken pockets. Finally, they reinvent the meaning of the word dialogue and fruitful, because this is better — I insist — she is a supporter who does not vote against the amendments to the opposition, is that she votes against that there is the regeneration of our rivers, that there is more resources for public education and health, that she votes against that we improve social protection in our country, or that she votes against that we have more funds for innovation. That is indeed what will happen in this House today. You made here a sort of summary of that happy Arcadia in which you have turned Galician Mr. Núñez Feijóo. And it's interesting that you do it on some aspects. Of course, we have one of the lowest salaries in the whole state, but it seems to you that things are going well. We have a situation — from a labour point of view — of immense precariousness, but the People's Party is not concerned about that, because it is not the wages that their leaders have, which, by the way, were well fattening them with envelopes in B. The People's Party doesn't seem to worry about what situation we have in our country either. And really, you mentioned what our municipal model is and referred to what was going on in the municipalities. What I can tell you, Mr. Puy, is that our model isn't Ourense's, where they've been with us since 2014 without budgets, no dialogue capacity or no one's agreement. [[Applause]] That's not our model. Nor is our model Mr. Baltar's. I'm sorry to tell you, I think there are some conversations that we all hear regardless of what a judge or justice says. By the way, we've been seeing justice in the Spanish state for all these months, for us to plead, and I think we've been saying it with absolute tranquility, because I have the right to express my opinion. [[Applause]] And beyond the judgment of a judge or a judge, there are facts that are absolutely indisputable. You will know why you defend Mr. Baltar. And on some of the issues you were discussing. He mentioned something I didn't say, I talked about cuts in public education and privatization, and what I was saying to him is that over the past six years the People's Party has shut down 64 schools and removed 450 units, while in concerted education what he has done was to create 243. By the way, it's very good that you ever have a little respect for reality. Then, during the two-party government there was a problem, and it is that Mr. Fraga shielded the educational concerts, shielded us Mr. Fraga; if they don't look at the dog. And he did it, in addition, on one of the last tips, after losing the election. That's how you understand democracy. But now we have the repetition of this play, because what Mr. Feijóo just did a few months ago is to shield the educational concerts until 2023, by sure shielding the 58 units that separate children and girls by their sex, including funding 4 schools at Opus Dei. [[Applause]] Look, if they want to talk about micromachysms and macromachims, they're eliminating segregation in teaching, because that's actually a macromachimism, a democratic anomaly that can't be allowed in this country. [[Applause]] You recovered those centers when they were already eliminated, and that is an aberration, we want to talk about eradicating inequality, but then we keep funding with public money centers that separate children and girls by their sex. They really don't come to teach us about equality or about feminism, because I really think you have a lot to scratch. In short, we are demanding a change of course in the face of a situation that is very worrying in our country. Mr. Puy also made mention that he complied with the strategic plan that he has approved of Galician Union. I don't know if they're calling to comply with the Strategic Plan that when they looked at that in 2014 Galicia had to represent 95% of the per capita GDP of the European Union, the relationship is that what we're diverging is, that is, we're not only converging into 6 points with the European average, but what we're doing is diverging into 9 and that that gap keeps increasing. I really don't know how you guys do it. What's clear is that those who don't give their bills in this country are most of the Greeks and the Greeks who have problems getting to the end of the month, to pay the bill of light, to pay a gasoline, which is the most expensive in the state, or some beaches that are a genuine legalized scam and that their party is supporting. And then we also have very clear that these budgets are a statement of intentions, because then, indeed, there is reality. The reality of what we have is that over all these years the budgets have had many changes that there is no effective control by this House, because there is no budget control office, and the change you make from the Board of Auditors is not equivalent to that parliamentary control office that we intend to create like this. But, finally, you can keep saying what you want. And what we're worried about is the level of execution that budgets have, according to the data we have, and if there was a parliamentary control office at best we had more, and that's why the People's Party doesn't want it. According to the latest data that came to this House, the fact is that we see how the most investor councils on 30 September have some levels of execution that are tremendously worrisome: Environment, 32.92%; Economy, Employment and Industry, 23.89%; Rural Middle, 34.37%; and the Sea Council, 31.35%. But they're telling us more, they're telling us that real investments and capital transfers on September 30 also have a level of execution in which most of the budget remains uninvested; 35% of real investments and 29.42% in capital transfers. And we have, I think, other matches that's for us to skip the alarms to all of us. The Rural Environment Council, which was going to be the legislation of the rural environment, turns out that in the rural population fixation programme it only executed 6.26 % of what it had planned. Modernization and diversification of rural productive tissue, 33%; promotion of agricultural associationism, 2.7% execution. And so we could go on with a lot more. For example, we can talk about how support for the reconciliation of work and personal life is prioritized, 5.59% of a budget that is only 1.2 million euros, that is, you also come here showing us that this government is not fully gas-efficient throughout the year, that it does not build up, that does not run all the budget, that there are very important changes in the budget that arrive very late and lacking transparency in this House, and that, in any case, they are not fulfilling the budget project that is presented to us in these budgets. We from BNG regret — and we sincerely regret — that there is no desire to modify a single budget that is very improved, that budgets that consolidate cuts, that will not shorten inequalities and that continue to be influenced by a model that is the model of inequality. Unfortunately here I think that since most people have absolute truth, and I regret that today the citizens of Galicia do not have an example in this House that we can reach agreements on aspects that are important to improve health, education, social protection, conciliation measures, and that the only message that the People's Party launches is that of prepotence and arrogance. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. On the part of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, to fix its position on the amendments of the other groups, Mr Fernández Leiceaga has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u23	Good morning again. The truth is, there are some issues that I would like to highlight in this second and last intervention on this subject, basically of two types. We're talking about some empirical issues, for example, how did the spokesperson for the BNG on the issue of levels of execution. Of course, there are splits that we already know they have a very high component of staff costs, that they normally have a very high level of execution. There are games or programs that are reinforced throughout the exercise with specific funding and which, therefore, will pose a level of execution in relation to initial credits much higher than what appears to us, but what we are concerned about is where there are significant deficits between those expenditure needs that are part of the emergencies of a society or an economy and the very low levels of execution by the Galician Union. When we see that labour brokerage and insertion has a run-in level in 2016 of 6%, for example, when it improves employment qualification has a run-in level in 2016 of 17%, or when the sustainable development of fishing zones has a run-in level in 2016 below 29%, this is called attention, especially when we also see that not only on September 30, 2017 there are unusual levels of minimum executions in these, but also in other programs that have enormous importance, and that we could report. I mean, there's a management deficit in the Galician board that's very palmic that remains manifest in these figures that we're indicating. The second important question, in which I had no chance to stop before. The latest data on mobility statistics has been published in tax sources, which uses the Agency, which publishes the Spanish Ministry of Farming, the Spanish Agency, the Tax Administration, and the truth is that it gives quite comprehensive information about what mobility is like in the whole territory. In the case of Galicia, it seems that the work outflows are much higher than the entries, so there is a net balance of expulsion in relation to other Spanish areas and that most of these exits receive is the Madrid Community. And this connects to something that the spokesperson for the People's Party used to say. In fact, tax competition between communities may have something to do with this, so a recent study published in Fedea by a couple of teachers who indicate that there is a minimum but perceptible, sensitivity of mobility to fiscal factors and that they actually benefit Madrid. What do we say? Mr. Montoro, Minister of Fairy, created an Expert Committee on Fiscal Reform, not the autonomous financing, a few years ago, which gave some conclusions and which Mr. Montoro then forgot, because in that report of the Committee of Experts the need to make, in the case of taxation on wealth, a minimum tax for the Spanish state as a whole just to harmonise taxation and prevent these effects of foot voting that could contribute to further polarizing Spanish economic growth. The Committee of Experts on Autonomical Financing last July, for it made a manifesto something similar in relation to the tax of succession and prayers. So the question is -- you know, it's known by the central government, which is who has been able to do it for a long time -- that what you have to do is put yourself to work: let's at least harmonise these taxes at the same time that we have to modernise them sensitively, because it's taxes that have a very remarkable regulatory deficit, and we'll reduce this problem, if we don't completely eliminate it. Because the fact is that when we brought this data into line with some other important data, it was recently published the regionalized number of business creations in Spain, and there was a very sensitive finding in relation to Catalonia: the creation of companies in Catalonia fell by 14% in the last year, because it was an effect of the process. In other words, the instability introduced by the Catalan institutions in recent years had a very unique impact on Catalonia and had led to a reversal in the creation of companies: October 2017 over October 2016 14%. Of course, the curious thing is that in Galicia that same retreat was higher, it was 15%. A 15% downturn without process, nothing like it, but in a context that you assume of political stability, which is true, and therefore we have to say that it's a purely economic effect. Labour output from people working in tax sources is found to be less business creation, much less business creation in the last year, and therefore a difficulty of an economic nature that is contributing to greater polarization of growth in the Spanish areas. And this connects with something very important, connects with what is happening with the investments of the General Government of the State, which are not part of the budget, but have a direct effect on the conditions of competitiveness of our economy. As there is no such clear bet on the part of the General Administration of the State, we are affecting the capacity of growth in the medium and long term of the Galician economy, because it affects the communications of companies that can possibly be created here and the bad news on this land, for example in relation to the rail corridor of goods or other types of connections, which undoubtedly affect these decisions. The second question I was interested in highlighting, was also mentioned that they didn't accept our amendments because some of them had mistakes, because it might be, but there's a certain fog that obscures the background reality. There are many amendments that we have tabled, and the other groups too, which have no mistakes and are not accepted. So the underlying reality is that there is a previous decision by the People's Group, or the Galician Union, not to accept any kind of correction to their accounts, to their spending states, because they consider that this is better in political terms; and there is that previous decision and there is nothing to do. We are concerned, in that sense, that the social divide in our country is not sufficiently corrected and, in particular, in relation to youth, which we attach great importance to. The youth guarantee program traditionally in budgets is an absolute failure, and the youth guarantee program is one of the main bets that the Galician Union had on this land. Does our formal education system work well? Yes. Is vocational training strengthening? Also, we have to say that, too, no doubt, we have not detected any anomalies here. Does dual vocational training work well? It's extremely insufficient and it would deserve a reflection on how to modify its regulation. Does the gateway work well between the education system, even the most bulky for employment, and the labour market? It doesn't work well, and here we need to do a lot more, so we have such an absolute failure in the Youth Guarantee Initiative and others, because it's something that should lead us to a deeper reflection. And these are the kinds of issues that need to be corrected through the budgets of the Board, and which in our opinion does not happen that way, which we certainly keep our initial opposition on this issue, which is a negative position in relation to these budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, to fix its position on the amendments of the other groups, Mr Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u25	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, guests and guests. The parliamentary spokesman of the People's Party has earlier begun with an allusion to Baltar's procedural situation, which, indeed, has filed his case at the criminal level for a matter of sexual harassment. It is true that the courts have not seen a criminal offence in their proceedings, but we also know that the criminal irrelevance of a case does not mean conformity according to ethical values. Criminal law refuses, as they do not ignore in this House, from the principle of minimal intervention, that is, criminal law only deals with the most serious injuries, the most valuable goods, in that case also the good and the value of freedom and the value of equality of women. If the judge considered that the injury is not as serious as to deserve a criminal reproach, it doesn't mean that it doesn't deserve an ethical reproach, aside from the criminal reproach. This is a forum, a parliamentary forum, not a court; we are in the political sphere, not in the criminal field, and therefore the responsibilities that we can exercise here are political and non-criminal. There'll be some difference between one thing and another, if there'd be no margin for political discussion. In fact, it's still a common mistake today to think that there's only one injury against equality, and that there's only macho conduct when there's a crime, and this is a very serious mistake. Criminal conduct — and in its most excruciating reflection in the field of machismo — or Machist crimes are just the tip of the iceberg of an entire situation of structural inequality in our society, is the tip of the iceberg and the ultimate is cultural change. A cultural change that has to take place in society as a whole, which can't bring about macho demonstrations even if they have no criminal relevance. And that's what we want to mean from the rostrum, which we want to mean as a parliamentary group. The People's Party cannot fabricate Baltar's conduct even if it's not a criminal offence, because on the contrary we are creating a framework, consolidating a framework — unfortunately from time immemorial — where the cultural hegemony of the values of a heteropatriarchy, which makes women miss the mere fact of being, if they continue to perpetuate. It's not the same as there's no crime but ethically acceptable conduct. Said Mario Benedetti, in a known poem: "Oh marine, oh boy, one of your great problems is not knowing how to distinguish verbs to be and be, for you everything is to be..." We are sure that for Mr. Puy and the People's Party not everything is to be, they know perfectly different the verbs to be and be and they know how to differentiate the masculine crime of masculine conduct even though it's not a crime. That's why I'm not going to send Mr. Puy or anyone from the People's Party for the beating that he's going up to this rostrum to see if he's ratifying Mr. Baltar's conduct and words. [[Applause]] Because I am sure they would not, because I am sure that Mr. Puy and most of them, not to mention the whole — I say the whole — of the members of this People's Parliamentary Group have another ethic and have another sense of equality and struggle against machoism other than that of Mr. Baltar, so no one will go up to this gallery to defend Mr. Baltar, because his conduct is indefensible from the point of view of equality. Mr. Martín, if you like, you'll have a chance to come up here and defend her. That said — which was not a deviation from the subject, because it is part of what we are talking about here precisely, the allocation of budgetary funds for the fight for equality and against macho violence, whatever its manifestation and even if it has no criminal relevance — we continue ahead. Mr. Parliamentary Voicer of the People's Party of the Strategic Plan 2015-2020 spoke. We just need to make a little memory to go to the 2009-2014 Strategic Plan to see what those forecasts were left for. We're just going to refer to two, the first of them the investment proposals in R+D+i, i.e. innovation, development and research, and those that were expected to go from 1% to 1.4%, and they ended up at 0.89%. We could also talk about the employed population, about a forecast above 65% and it turns out that it's over and today we're not even 58%. We believe that this simple allusion, that simple reference to the strategic plan, is not enough, because it's really concealing a deviation that is not able to be corrected by budgets that don't care about people, that don't care about the rights and needs of the majority of society. We say — and we believe that it is what concerns young people most — that what concerns society as a whole right now is employment, and for the year 2009 they have a budget forecast of 230 million euros less. And this year alone, this year, in 2018 compared to 2017, 1.5 % less, in addition to the fact that — and we have already said before — more than 54 million euros have been left unimplemented in employment policies, so what good is it that they do not then execute them? Just so you can try to give the headline they're doing something. No, they don't do anything, because if they leave them without running, they're not doing anything. At the level of social justice there are no basic rights guaranteed with these budgets when they are being reduced in relation to before the crisis, that crisis that you are talking about is overcome and that we maintain that it is not overcome; it will be overcome by economic recession, but not the crisis, because the crisis was the loss of rights that we have not yet recovered today, and we have not recovered because after two labor reforms the workers and workers have lost rights that have not recovered, because there are 200,000 people under 35 years of age who have been out of the foreign country or other parts of the state to seek work, the opportunities that have been denied here. They didn't leave voluntarily, they're economically exiled because they had no way of having a reasonable future in their own country. And what does the Galician Union do?, for reducing departures to the year 2018 with regard to that initial moment, but also with regard to 2017 itself, for example in industry shares and promoting economic activities. What do you expect for that emigration youth? What expectation of return policies? How have your return policies worked so far? They didn't work, just because they didn't take care of the people who are emigrated, because they find it more comfortable for young people to be out here. They didn't worry either and they don't care about taking care of a land devastated by the fires. And they haven't just assumed that the issue isn't just a forest, it's a matter of territorial integrity. And until that takes place, there will be no solution. As long as you shut down schools and dismantle services in rural areas, people will leave the countryside, and if there are no people in rural areas there will be no one to care for the territory, there will be no one to value it and, therefore, we will be pastures of successive devours by fires. Instead of doing that, they didn't deal significantly with this. In Galicia, since you've been in government, there are still employment policies that don't respond to these 144,000 jobs less than in 2008. You don't get the opportunities for 71,000 unemployed more than before the recession. They didn't count here of these 62,000 homes with all their members unemployed, with all the employees losing purchasing power, 8% average, and the most precarious up to 25% of their real wages. One thing that in total terms, among wage earners in relation to their quality of life, reaches the figure that one out of every three Greek wage earners is a poor worker. People who can work, who have the opportunity to work, work, and don't leave poor. We understand that these budgets consolidate policies of inequality, of inequality policies that generate in the population despair, that generate resignation. We believe it's a policy that, in the end, is a policy that is based on continuing to play with people's fear of unemployment, fear of insecurity, fear of emigration, fear of a loss of essential services in health care, education, pensions, social benefits, quality of life, quality of care, well-being. Ultimately, a loss of opportunities for the future. We think they want us to resign, we think you want us to comply with this whole scenario. A scenario of the most absolute separatism, because it separates people from rights, from the fundamental rights of a basic character of our population, from our country, to which you have no right to separate, and from which you are not dealing. We have seen a number of absences in the most essential, social policy and welfare, which we cannot accept. That is why we, being substantially in agreement with the political-economic strategy of the other opposition groups, will support their amendments, because we understand that, despite the existence of points of discrepancy, there is a common point in the need to make an economic policy and an alternative social policy, which takes account of the social majority, which is concerned with guaranteeing basic rights, social services, social rights for the population as a whole, at least to meet the most essential; something that is not currently being dealt with by the People's Party. There is no comprehensive care strategy in cases of extreme poverty, in cases of poverty and social exclusion, in the case of equal opportunities, and we understand that this whole situation cannot be sustained for longer. And that is why we have rejected the economic proposal of the majority of Parliament once again since En Marea, and we will support the economic proposal of the rest of the opposition groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group, to set your position on the amendments of the other groups, Mr. Puy Fraga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u27	Let me make a dyke. The last thing I hope for in a budgetary debate is to find myself having to answer certain questions. Sexual harassment, whether it's there or not. If it's a crime, and if it's not, it's a crime. So if there's no sexual harassment, you can't call somebody "sexual stalker." Whoever does this is defaming. [[Applause]] And besides the People's Group -- which you often give us ethics classes as well -- about individual private behaviors will never make judgments of value. You're the investigators, and when it's proven that there's nothing, they say something stays, they keep saying and what. We understand that's no way to make politics, and we're never going to do it. [[Applause]] Well, I'll give you some answers. I drew some conclusions from the report by the Galician Economic Forum, which says that the Greek economy keeps an annual rate of variation equal to or greater than 3% for the eighth consecutive quarter; Galicia and Spain have a positive increase in both domestic and external demand, the first being to determine the growth in this third quarter; from the point of view of supply, all branches of activity have positive rates of variation; the Greek labour market has a reasonably positive behavior in quantitative terms, taking into account the evolution of the three indicators of employment and the two unemployments considered. All these things, which, at last, are what's behind them, remind me of another anecdote, of when Carlyle read Malthus and said, "Economy is the dark science.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh After listening to the speeches of En Marea and the Bloc, I understand Carlyle, and the truth is he's willing to cry the country you describe, which is not really the one, fortunately. And that's what citizenship knows well. Let's see, laugh sanitation. Ferrol's creek went from zone C to zone B, you can make the direct sale. We'd do something! They talk about wages, and they literally said that the wages in Galicia were the lowest in Spain. And even today INI publishes wages, labour costs per worker and month, and Galicia is the ninth autonomous community, with 2,258.41 euros. It has behind it the Castile and León, Castile-A Mancha, Andalusia, Rioxa, Valencian Community, Murcia, Canary Islands and Extremadura. How can you say that we have the lowest salary in Spain, Mrs. Pontón, when the truth is published? We're not going to teach equality lessons; what if we're going to always do is criticize all micromachisms, come from whoever they come from. I think he's going back to a mayor who jokes about his opposition leadership because it's not the right thing to do. We will always criticize everyone. Certainly, convergence with Europe has fallen. And if you're not aware that, despite the fall of convergence with Europe, Galicia has converged with Spain, because you don't understand well what happened in the crisis. Because the crisis in Spain was specific as a result of a real estate bubble that has been inflated since the 2000s, the last years of Aznar, and especially with the Government of Zapatero, whose budgets you have often supported in this issue too, and have participated in that economic policy. Yes, Mrs. Pontón, and from the juntta also with the budgets they made in the years 2006 to 2009. So it is true that we converge more with Spain and that we do not converge with Europe. And these budgets are precisely what they want to do is to continue to grow, to continue to converge with Spain and, ultimately, to continue to converge with Europe. Social crisis. I've said several times that, indeed, something has deteriorated in the index of equality. However, Galicia, with 0.29 — and I am quoting the official surveys of IGE and Eurostat — is still a much more egalitarian society; it is far from the inequality in the European average, 0.31, and above all in Spain, 0.35. And something we'd have to do with it! Especially with the execution of budgets. I said before that if some games were not executed it was because others were executed, and I mentioned specifically those related to social spending: Sergas, 109.5; Social Services Agency, 102; Educational Centre Equipment; Risk, 108%, etc. I am sure that equality in Galicia has not deteriorated as much as in Spain, among other things, thanks to the clear commitment by the social policies of this government, which keeps in the budgets that we are going to approve today. Of course, you can put on other models, I don't know. There's a council that I think govern tides — and I'm not going to give the name already — but I think you don't have 5,700 hours a month to help the home, you pay the board, and you don't execute them. The council only lent one third of the time assigned to this plan. I mean, the board finances 8,930 hours and leaves 5,700 without funding, when they pay it. Although there are 123 people on the waiting list. Well, this certainly doesn't contribute to equality. Talks about runlevel. Joins last year 75% on investment. Town Councils, the main ones, in size order: 29%, 22%, 31% and the most important of all 30% execution. Well, we won't be able to handle it, but when you run 30% and do it very well, because you have an absolute majority in your county, because you criticize me for running 75% -- I don't, the Board -- because I think it's very impressive at least. More questions have been discussed. I would like to recall that the expert report referred to when it was about self-financing, which said that there should be some convergence in the tax yields, was before, for example, the tax on property had been abolished. In the end, things changed a lot, the property tax, that is, about wealth, who suppressed it was a socialist government. It's something I've never understood in terms of financial sociology, in terms of economic policy, in terms of self-financing, or in any term, but it's one of the things that they went back and had to recover. About tax pressure, too, you've talked a lot. I know that there are also often debates that are generated and they make us think: look, you have lower fiscal pressure than the OECD average, etc., right? Well, I wanted them to just relate to one time — even to see what the situation is — the fiscal pressure and the growth of each of the countries. For example, the highest fiscal pressure in the euro area is France, and France reaches 47.6% as a percentage of GDP and grows by 1.2%. Whoever has the lowest is Ireland, has a total tax pressure of 23.8%, but it's growing to 5%. France I said, didn't I? And if we look for Italy, 42.9%, and it grows 0.94%. In fact, one takes another example from a country that is growing a lot, Slovakia, 32.4%, but grows by 3.34%. We in Spain have a fiscal pressure, which is the first time you've dropped according to that report this year, at 34.1%, and we're growing at 3.34%. I'm not going to say there's a relationship between lower tax pressure and higher growth. But this does give them a clue which is the priorities that every government can have in current circumstances with the level of unemployment that the Spanish economy has. I do not know whether raising taxes on the income of natural persons — which is different, higher in France than in Spain — if raising sales tax — which is higher in France than in Spain — if raising special taxes — which are higher in France than in Spain — or raising corporate tax — which is higher in France than in Spain — we will be able to create more employment. I'm a defender of the fact that "taxes" -- as Oliver Wendell Holmes said -- "are the price of civilization," but we're going to make economic policy and we're going to get rid of the unemployment we have, that that's our top priority. The creation of companies has been talked about, and few companies are created. And I also want to remember that what is important in the business world right now is the size. I think there are a few analysts who say that one of the main problems of the Greek and Spanish economy is that companies don't have the size or size to innovate and export. So, indeed, fewer companies are created, but yet we're talking about their size. And there's good company merger data, corporate purchases fired this year, until September with forty-three closed operations. And that's why we're thinking that's what the Galician Economic Forum also says in its export report, that we're not only exporting more but more and more exporting companies, because it's a good way to keep growing. The data for the outputs and population entries. I just want to give the data: emigrations 2009-2016, 237,000 people. This was the data given to us by the Block spokesman, who omitted immigration 2009-2016, 257,000 people. I mean, a positive balance of 20,000. And this too would have to talk -- and today in ten seconds it doesn't take time -- but I just mean that when you give a data it has to be the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, the socialist spokesman said he was in favour of recomposing the social contract. And we think that this phrase that isn't exclusively him or mine, it's a phrase that reflects quite well what the Government intends, and the results I think they're walking in that direction. We will continue to support budgets that promote growth, promote employment and contribute to strengthening the social contract. And think, when you say you want to strengthen the social contract, Mr Socialist Spokesman, who is trying to break the big political contract that allows the social contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Puy. We have moved on to the joint debate. The role of the parliamentary groups in explaining their position on the Commission's ruling and, if so, in defending the amendments maintained. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG has the floor, to set its position on the dictatorship and defend its amendments, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u29	Since part of this budgetary debate today is about justice and injustice, I also want my first words in this turn to be expressed in the name of the Galician Nationalist Block, although it is sad, the relief we feel when it was confirmed that the Audience rejected Baltar's request, and a prosecutor's office, in which there is no separation of powers, when they tried to harass and prosecute the victim judicially. A victim of whom unfortunately her privacy is so little guaranteed in this country that we all know her name and face. [[Applause]] But to her, in the same way that was done about all the cases that were going out in Hollywood or the recent Manada case, we want to tell her: we, yes, believe you. Well, and I'm already focusing on the debate on the issue — which I see is that they are angry on this side, sometimes they don't do it so much when they hear another kind of barbarities here — because, ladies and gentlemen, today they are two months of budgetary processing during which the Government of Greece has focused on moving that this budget project into 2018 was the consolidation of recovery. "Consolidation of recovery," tell me what you're assuming and I'll tell you what you're missing. An absolutely trendy and self-comprehensive account, very adopted by propaganda politics, but which is far from the reality in which we live the Greeks and the Greeks. Which left us after the policies practiced during the economic crisis an absolutely more unequal Galician. The section that we are dealing with today, the articulate, is of fundamental importance; it is the skeleton that sustains the economic policy of the Government. And your analysis shows that, as long as the counties get close to the prescribed levels, you don't even have the slightest intention to make the policies in which those budgets are implemented resume those priorities that have been set aside in the alibi of the socio-economic crisis. The headlines say one thing, but, of course, the analysis of the joint set, which has rules of capital importance, walks in the opposite direction. They are the little letter of the budgets, and one more year they are characterized by continuity and lack of will and political ambition. They are characterized by neither the smallest measure nor margin to overcome the difficult context that they have been feeding for almost a decade with their policies of submission and compliance with the deficit. Therefore, despite a macroeconomic framework of growth and greater availability of resources, we note with regret that these budgets are the lack of a project for economic development and social cohesion, and also the lack of will to compensate and shield the damage done to basic public services. So, do budgets increase? Yes. But do they change political priorities to correct those consequences that have led us to a more unequal Galician one? Well, radically not. And if the consolidation they pray for is the path of inequality, because of course, it's not worth it to us. So more resources and the same regulatory framework we understand are insufficient. So since German nationalism we have rejected this articulation and presented 34 amendments, of which the People's Party has not accepted the first. And this is very serious, first, because it demonstrates the government's inability to dialogue more than with itself. From the BNG they accepted zero, but it is that of the other opposition groups, of more than 200 proposals in total, because the truth is they take all the fingers of one hand, not even between the two. And this is very serious, because the bottom line is that they're going to apply the same formulas, and the same formulas are going to lead to the same results. And that's a problem. Because what is the result at this point? The result of the People's Party's formulas is that we actually have a more unequal Galicia. Did we leave the recession? Yes, we left the recession. But with what result, what is the diagnosis of Galicia that we have today? For we understand that it is deeply worrisome; today the gap between the highest and lowest part of the distribution of wealth is increasing. We have in our country more than seven hundred thousand people living with less than a minimum interprofessional wage. At the same time, the light and the fuels rise and rise. In a year alone, the IPC has increased by 1.8 % above the state average. And, look, if in 2008 the minimum interprofessional wage was 600 euros, because in 2017 we have to EUR 707; an increase that did not reach 15%. Right now, from Madrid, Mr. Rajoy sells us that 4% is equal, and we are supposed to applaud with our ears, as if it were not even to compensate — which is about 20 euros a month — the increase we have in something as elementary as gasoline or electricity. Of course, we call for proposals in this articulation to generate a political framework that enables us to have more political weight, more ability to demand other changes from the state. We could put more examples because unfortunately there is still evidence that in December 2017 we have a Galicia greatly fragmented by this social inequality, while you live anchored in the saddest self-comprehension. That's why the nationalists and the nationalists, who reject this articulation plan, have tabled various amendments to reflect a political alternative to add more resources and exercise political ambition, to achieve a fairer Galicia. By means of these proposals — which I will synthesize the ones that seem most relevant to us — we are firmly committed to making a change of course that we focus on three fundamental aspects: firstly, to shield public services and social spending; secondly, to work on the recovery and quality of public employment; and thirdly, to deepen transparency. First, we courageously believe that we must legislate without complexes to shield public services and social spending. From there our Amendment No 3 to Article 9, Adjustment of appropriations. This is an article whose spirit we oppose at the root, because it is the article that gives priority to the imposition of the deficit that they mark in Madrid in response to the needs that Galicia has. It is an article not only anti-social but also anti-auto-government. And so we demand the commitment through our amendment that, at least, all the changes that can be made in the interests of this economic and financial balance imposed should not at any time affect the minorities of those credits which are of the basic public services. We therefore commit ourselves — we understand this is the time — to shielding expenditure on elements such as health, education, social services or dependence. We set priorities not only in the words but also in the articulated of these budgets. Because the crisis is over, then you'll have to end that eufemism of the "economic-financial balance." Since we complain a lot about services that are underrun, because they have the consequence of Mr. Feijó's weight in the system of autonomic financing, because at least you are committed to not diminishing at any time, under any concept, none of these elementary services. On the other hand, we also present amendments such as 21 on the issue of public-private collaborations, in the same line of safeguarding our basic services as public services. With this amendment we want to prevent the use of these collaborations from continuing to leave our services in increasingly private hands. Because the abuse of these practices leads to emptying the role of administration, compromising the Welsh Fairy, compromising the political and economic decisions of future generations and mortgageing their public character. To display a button: the recent Sergas General Account for 2015 certified how in that budget health increased its resources by 0.3%; however, the budget expenditure derived from the concerted activity increased by over 200 million, 0.9%; that is, it increased three times the concerted expenditure more than public spending. That's evidence of loss of public character. That's why we propose that this mechanism for financing basic public services should not be used in the observance of this law. It is not enough that these resources would not be increased during the current exercise, but we want a commitment not only to the future but also to specific issues. Since contracts and public works were to be modified for the purpose that in no case did the satisfied canon exceed what would cost the administration itself to carry out that work, not to see any more shames like the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro. As well as starting from 2018 specific procedures to recover the progressive rescue of concessions granted through these procedures. We propose ultimately to change the course and recover these services so that management is fully in the public domain. And in this sense, we have also introduced amendments designed not to increase educational concerts in any case. Some concerts that you, so democratic, said in the previous reply to Mrs. Pontón, when Mr. Fraga was in office, were approved. Then they have a hard face to be day and day by not saying that this was a matter of the Bipartite. And now you were more papist than the pope, more advanced students of fragusism than Mr. Fraga himself, and they extended it until 2023, exceeding even the length that would lead to the law itself. And at this historic moment we understand that it is time to reverse this issue. And also, if we're at a time of growing expenditure, because without cracks we bet on the recovery of the quality of public employment. Because it's that public job that should be mirror for private employment. That's why we're presenting several amendments throughout the articulation so that the public workers and the workers can recover pay entitlements, the volume of workers is rescinded, regardless of the replacement rates, and the provision therefore of the services of the administration itself is rescinded. We have tabled, as I say, a number of amendments in this respect, and I would like to point out two in particular: The first one, which we amend with Amendment No 33 the deletion which maintains the suspension of Article 19 of the V Collective Staff Convention of the Galician Union, because it is an absolute nonsense. Anyone who has been listening to us because he might think that in this article the workers and the public workers are asking for something exotic, like a salary increase or a reduction in the daytime, but not even, they're talking about rest time; the rest time of workers and workers with very high psychosocial risks, such as the workers and workers of the Fire Service or fundamental elements such as social well-being. The People's Party has sought an elementary right in exchange for nothing, because not even during these years have they been able to quantify if that had any kind of translation into generation of jobs. The second, Amendment No 18, which deletes Article 30, as an interim teacher. An amendment that we reiterate one more year, which shows that there is no sincerity or coherence between what the government team tells us and what the reality tells us. It must be remembered that precisely as a result of all of your restorative rates imposed during the crisis because, in addition to other factors, it has been derived that even now we have an interim level of 13%. Mr. Feijóo and his policies tripled the pre-crisis levels. We have a very high level of interminence and also of temporary destinations in our teaching. We have worrying data that we understand that if you really bet on public education, you should correct it. And we shouldn't have situations like that 28 percent of the teachers -- more than a thousand -- share related subjects that in many cases have almost no affinity. You're more concerned about comparing the data of how much teacher you need to make a real diagnosis of the needs of our education. This is a panorama — we understand — that is absolutely irresponsible and that requires compensation. Finally, by moving forward, in a third block we could put together several amendments that we propose and which are geared towards better budgetary management, control and transparency. This time, the difference between last year and last year, we couldn't get that even in a matter of these, that they would almost be techniques — as much as they like — and not political, because they could go forward. And then in the middle of the 21st century, we'll continue to see scanned and blurred leaves instead of something as sharp as what the Galician Nationalist Block calls for, like that budgeted information is in formats suitable for the century in which we live. We've given up so much to ask them to comply with the deal and deliver them in time and form. Because, logically, they won't agree to shorten the deadlines when those that are there don't meet them anymore. Also, as we have always done, and as we have already done in the previous debate, we put forward the proposal to improve budgetary control with a number of issues, including the establishment of a budgetary control office. And indeed, because that's not what we're saying here that the Board of Auditors does not serve us for that function. The bottom line is that it's more of a strategy that the People's Party has to run a tough one sees about certain practices that you do, which are actually legal. At no time — taking advantage of the fact that Mr. Conseileur de Fanda is here — said this parliamentary group that they were not legal. But often the things that are seen there are not very morals or are not popular, so you're so uncomfortable that you focus on this and focus on it, for example, that in the 2016 exercise -- by setting the example of a closed exercise -- they left in social services care for older people or dependent people over 2.5 million in each case not running...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u31	...or other modifications that do not give me time to exemplify. I have already mentioned that we have also tabled other amendments, demands for municipalism or improved issues, such as the cultural percentage, and that, as usual, our parliamentary group is also presenting the proposals on tax matters in the accompanying law itself. In conclusion, this articulate remains the skeleton of an budget that obeys an absolutely irresponsible government, a project of budgets...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u32	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u33	...that with the lack of dialogue of the People's Party it will not be substantially modified, but that in every light it will not introduce new recipes to write a less unequal Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u35	...in the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u36	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, to set its position on the dictatorship and defend its amendments, Mr. Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Advocate of Fairy and colleagues from the Government's office. Socialists undoubtedly respect judicial decisions, but we all have ears and we all listen to the audio we hear, and we all understand that ethically and politically there are things that a modern state, that a modern society, should neither tolerate. I want to say this because it can affect fundamental issues in the lives of all of us, in addition to a woman from Ourense, of all of us. [[Applause]] So we have to have the rules a little further than a judicial decision, which I suppose will have its legal basis, but that I, of course, do not judge. In this debate on amendments to the articulation, in Commission 3 we have had another parallel debate — and I think it is quite suggestive — on the condition of budgets, if it is a political document, if it is a technical economic document, if it is an administrative document, if it is a legal document. I claim politics, I think it's a basically political document, knowing it's of course a technical dimension, an administrative dimension, a legal dimension. I'm often surprised by the legal dimension, because since it's not impossible to execute, I understand. I insist that I am not a jurist, but so strict on the legal issue, because perhaps we should focus on that issue. But, of course, politicians are. And I want to begin by quoting the former President of the Government of Spain, Mr. José María Aznar, in a book entitled Freedom and Solidarity. I'm going to read it in Spanish—and I think this is political, and that's what the People's Party budgets finally collect, and they pick up the budgets on a right that has a political objective—: "They only aspire to a resurgence of the welfare state who continue to wish for this governing model. Is it worth talking about the welfare state then? Yes, it is necessary to do so because there is something unquestionable: the welfare state is incompatible with the present society. We have to make this very clear: the welfare state has been sunk only by its own inefficiencies and anachronism. On reaching this point it is difficult to avoid an electoral suggestion: what does this appropriate debate cover and maintained by the Socialists on the State of Welfare? A inferiority complex." This was written by him; I suppose as he spoke to Pujol "catalan in intimacy" he was dedicated to the political essay. Don't I know if it bothers you to speak Catalan in privacy? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing to me, I'm in favor of multilingualism, I mean. I think it's great I spoke to you. [[Laughter]] In fact, I think that at the Majestic hotel, when they agreed, they talked about almost everything, from 3% to 5%, that's what growth rates are. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[The President commands to keep silence on the members of the House.]] Thank you, President. [[Murmurs.]] Budgets have a source, which is a spending ceiling, that socialists and other opposition groups also try ideologically to turn into an income floor. And we say, of course, despite the lesson given to us by the spokesperson for the Popular Group, that it is not true that there is a correlation between low income and growth, and much less there is a correlation between low taxes and well-being, much less. Radically denied by empirical evidence and, above all, by ideology, especially by ideology. Or does anyone think Trump's tax rebates are going to be a better welfare for American citizens? Can anyone defend him? Can anyone defend him? No one defends him except the... finally... No, no, you're more than liberals; reactionaries in my opinion, for he asked me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And so we presented, after that income floor, a cross-sectional amendment, in which, in fact, within the margins of self-government policy, we tried to find a greater volume of tax revenue so that the Greek Government had been able to fight against a society that is increasingly unequal. I ask for that pedagogical exercise again, to see if it's possible that some spokesperson from the People's Party will say "poverty", "unequality" and "low wages." I don't think it's too hard. I'm not saying this country is Madagascar, it's not. But, in any case, poverty, inequality and low wages are part of the daily life of a very high percentage of the population of this autonomous community. And so I'd like to see the leaders of the German Government and the voices of the party that support this government at least be able to verbalize it. Well, that cross-sectional amendment was also rejected, also with few explanations. The truth is, in the end, one part because it was not possible, another part because it was deducting tax funds that, in principle, by other autonomous communities were appealed to the Constitutional Court, etc. Finally, a lot of justifications to avoid something that is fundamental to us: tax pressure is an indicator of economic development, and if not, they take the list. I'm just asking you to take the list of the OECD, of the European Union, of any international organization. And the correlation between high tax pressure... Home!, I'm talking about countries where corruption does not distort the efficient allocation of economic resources too much, and I want to think that ours is one of these countries, despite the fact that Soto of the Real Corporation, which exists, is an obvious fact. So... yes, of course, it exists, it's a penitentiary like the Pereiro de Aguiar, in Ourense, up there for Trives. [[Murmurs.]] The next issue, which is very important in terms of economic and political discourse, is the discussion between growth and development. It is true that we have grown to 3.1 % GDP, an INE data — I always give good INE data, always. But it is true that this growth — and we all know it too — is redistributing in an absolutely unequal way, as it did decades ago that didn't happen in this country. And it has nothing to do with the macroeconomic moment in which we find ourselves, it has nothing to do with the recovery process; it has to do with the policies that encourage income to concentrate on the yields of capital against labour performance. And that's the origin of inequality. And if we add a relatively lower tax pressure than our surroundings, because we find ourselves in the situation in which we find ourselves, that which costs the People's Party so much to verbalize. So I think, synthetically, our amendments mean four things. They mean we're not all the same, something that might seem obvious, but I'm so tired of listening to it on the right: this is all a technical difference and that the other is a pattern constant. We're not all the same. That there are left and right and that there are different models of society, and that public administration and taxes, taxation, are the fundamental tool for shaping that society that each legitimately wants or wishes. According to Aznar, the socialists is because we have "complex of inferiority". Don't I know what the superiority complex is? But, in any case, we all have to remember a good part of the origins of Soto del Real Corporation, which emerged under that "Spain is going well", in which those who had inferiority complex don't know who they were; those who had complex of other things are meridianly clear. It's also a lie that you can do more with less; with less it's done less. It is true that one management can be more efficient than another. That's an obvious fact that can't be discussed. But less is done. And that milonga that counts also the right that a thinner state of well-being, the least, is more efficient and, therefore, allows to provide services, no, no, the slightest state of well-being means to provide services to the most disadvantaged social groups and means to convert what is a state of universal well-being in the American Medicare, which ends up being beneficence, too, taste them or not on the right. In this context, of course, if ideologically, without any doubt, the socialists present 62 amendments, accepted us two, and two other transactions were made. One of them about the need to include those affected by the fire strike in which public aid policies would be more active. And another on the immediate application of the rise in public salaries from regulation or state legislation. These amendments we grouped them into six blocks basically: First of all, the social situation I was actually talking about before and the defense of public services. The risk... I am satisfied on the one hand that the public domain actually solves the demands of the risk, but I feel frustrated as a citizen by being part of a country or territory where the demand for the risk grows with an increase in GDP of 3.1%. Someone will have to explain to me where that imbalance is, which is neither technical nor accounting, is political. It can't be that the demand for Risga will increase by 3.1%, unless what's happening happens, which is that the public authorities have abandoned their work of distribution of income and wealth. In the same way, the theme of the freeness of textbooks. Why doesn't Mr. Amancio Ortega pay for his grandchildren' books? Because no, because books are a right of everyone. And Mr. Amancio Ortega, what he has to pay, are strong progressive taxes, which allow all children in Galicia to have free textbooks, and the rest is a mile away, is to convert society into two parts. [[Applause]] And exactly the same as the subject of dependency, about which there are also some amendments. Strengthening public employment services. This was the magical country: at the time when unemployment grew the most, the work leaders were reduced. So, in fact, we see the indicators and we see how people find jobs, and we see that the work of public services is very scarce, not by the workers, but by the political leadership of those services. So this would be the first block. The second block, directly related to this one, is the defence of workers in this public sector. It is not possible to defend the public sector of the mouthpiece when the labour rights and labour stability of workers in the public sector are being undermined. It's not possible for quality public health and education, quality administrative services when the level of eventuality, the level of timeliness increases day by day. They were the effects of the crisis. We are going to give a vote of confidence, we are going to see if, indeed, it was the effects of the crisis or it was a political-ideological strategy of progressive dismantling, supported in that excuse of the crisis itself. The third of the blocks has to do with improvements in public administration, quality and control in budgeting. Indeed, this control is important, it is important budget execution and the foundations of budgetary changes are important. I follow the request of the BNG voicer, with my five diopters: please send me in PDF. We're not asking anymore. It's quite a simple thing that allows, among other things, to search for terms and that the leaves do not go out with a 45-degree inclination. They are small details that I am sure that an organism like the Amtega, which has 120 million euros of budget, is able to move the budget changes of the Greek Government to PDF, because the rest really looks like a kind of dark version of the Nibelungs Ring. But, in any case, maybe, there's some technical problem I don't know. The fourth block has to do with transparency in the Public Service. And here are many things to say. We saw the other day as they were shooting a film at the last floor of the Mexoneiro Hospital, which is very respectable, each wheel where they can shoot. I understand that the heads of equipment are looking for places that prevent them from having to use cinemacittà, but still above, Sergas had to say that this did not affect the health service at all. I imagine teaching at Vigo Economics College and that they were shooting a film around the hall, not at all affecting the normal development of any public activity, nothing. The theme of the bivalve laboratory or also the paradigmatic theme of administration transparency. Again PowerPoint, press rounds... it seems that the information didn't flow properly. I'm sure there was no bad intention but it was a communication problem. So there I think there's a lot to do. The fifth block has to do with economic activity; it has to do with energy, which we see as an element that is undermining the lives of citizens in a very relevant way. I want to remember the last IPC data on energy issues, a 4.1%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u39	...—ending, Mr President, in the same way, in terms of renewable energy, and also, on the other hand, the management of the European agricultural guarantee funds. And the sixth block -- and this is over -- has to do with the local administration. We must end this comfortable policy for the government of Mr Feijóo, comfortable and profitable in media terms, which is that the Galician Union invites and the municipalities pay. And the councils pay, in addition, at a time when Mr. Montoro's own laws are making it extremely difficult for them to reinvest in many cases of surpluses that are accumulated. Therefore, a double aggression to the local power which the People's Party's own councils reject, but which, of course, disciplinely silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u40	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u41	And, by the way, to finish, I thought Mr. Puy was there, I see he's gone. Oh, because it's not true. [[A gentleman: No, he's here.]] The cost of work is not the salary, Mr. Puy. I know that for allusions... I hope you don't ask them, but in fact, at the cost of wages, we are the ninth autonomous community, but in the Forum, in the report of the Galician Economic Forum, in the fourth quarter that you mentioned, come the salary data: the third in the queue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u42	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u43	Good morning. Sometimes, in the middle of the parliamentary debate, we forget it, but here lies the sovereignty of the Greek people. And in this House you can't insult the working women who defend their jobs. You can't insult the unions in this House. [[Applause]] Therefore, excuses cannot be private. You have to apologize publicly for what you've said, for machismo and anti-unionism. In that sense, we demand from the People's Group a public correction of these insults, because, of course, insulting the working class and insulting the unions in this House, it will not be done with the silence of En Marea. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We apologize publicly, we apologize publicly, and let them withdraw from the minutes of the plenary these insults that are collected there. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u44	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u45	I'm going to have a disagreement with Noa Presas and Abel. I have no surprise at all that the People's Party rejects all the initiatives we have put forward. Of course! I expected no less, because we presented an alternative project to the economic, social and political model that you have, and the logic is that from the right... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u46	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u47	And it's logical that since...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u48	Quiet. Please, Mr. Vega, be quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, don't come in now, we're going to finish this quietly. Christmas spirit, please. Quiet. Christmas spirit, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u49	I was saying, the logic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u50	Quiet, please, Mr. Vega. [[Mrs. Chao Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Chao, be quiet, please. Otherwise, I'm going to have to call them in order, because they're there at a crossroads that can't be. No, no, both of you. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, sorry, both of you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't like these exchanges. Quiet, let's continue with the full, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u51	He said the logic is that since the neoliberal and conservative right it is against the economic and social model that we defend in Marea in this House. In that sense, it doesn't make much sense that we are in favour of amending the amendment, because we already know what the vote is, and what we are going to do is a reflection on fiscal and budgetary policy to see if that reflection in the future serves to bring about a change in the economic policy of the Galician Union in what remains of legislation. Let's start with the basic principles. First, Galicia has not a problem of over-expenditure, but of insufficiency of its income, and it's not an opinion of either En Marea or Manuel Lago, that's what Eurostat says. Spain's public expenditure amounts to 42% of GDP in Spain compared with 48% in the eurozone. And that's a figure that puts us in the squad behind the most developed countries, even behind Portugal or Greece. By contrast, total income amounts to 38% of GDP compared to 46% of the eurozone. They are 8 points of difference — the advisor knows — in Spanish GDP. It's 93,000 million euros; a figure that in itself would be used to correct the four points of the deficit and to equal us, in terms of expenditure, to a European average. Spain is a fiscal anomaly in the European Union. When I see this Eurostat painting on December 7, I feel ashamed. [[Mr. Lake Peñas shows the painting.]] I'm sorry, I'm ashamed of my rulers, because when I see the list, I see Lithuania, Latvia, Slovenia, Cyprus, Malta, Spain, Poland. And when I see the list on the other side, I see: France, Denmark, Belgium, Sweden, Finland, Italy, Greece. This painting is a demonstration of the failure of the tax policy of the governments of the Spanish State and of all those who have responsibility for fiscal policy, such as the Council of Galicia. We are the Spanish State, the fifth economy of the European Union, but we occupy 20 out of 28 in tax revenue, and that absolutely conditions the State's ability to make public policies. I am going to re-examine the phrase that the Socialist Party spokesperson said: we cannot have Bulgaria's taxation and have Denmark's public services and social protection. It's so clear. And this painting says exactly where the political power in Spain has decided to place us: in the box where there is no income and, therefore, there is no social policy and, therefore, there is no public service, the quality that this country, which the Spanish State and this country, deserves. In that sense, I was greatly surprised by Mr. Puy's expression — I, who had him on the left side of the People's Party, will have to start correcting those ideas. There is no report that links taxation to growth, none. All reports that relate to economic development are taxation. I'm going back to saying that it's the most developed countries that have the most wages and the ones that have the most fiscal pressure: France, Denmark, Belgium, Sweden, Finland, Austria, Italy, Germany -- these are the ones that are above the European Union average. And those who are under the European Union, those who have low taxation, are Romania, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Latvia, Slovakia. Where do we have to be, Mr. Puy? Where do we have to be? Where does the Spanish State have to be and where does Galicia have to be?, above the average, with France, or next to Bulgaria? I have another intervention, but I take advantage of your statements, Mr. Puy, because you are talking about the report of the Galician Economic Forum. You're at the Galician Economic Forum, I too, Leiceaga too, and therefore the Forum does balanced analyses. And when you only read one part, because it's distorting reality. And then I brought him here. Then I'll leave you, Mr. President. And he says, "In contrast to the above, we must insist on the negative aspects underlined in previous reports, such as, the worst behavior in relation to the Spanish average, the gradual fall of the active population from 25 to 34 years old, the high rate of temporality and still the high weight of long-term unemployment. Galicia is the second most self-esteem with worst behavior after Extreme in terms of the evolution of the occupied population between the third quarters of 2007 and 2017. Unlike the evolution of economic activity, employment data are still far from the prescribed level. Data from the Tax Agency show that Galicia is located as the second autonomous community with a higher decrease in the number of people receiving a wage pay. Data from both the Tax Agency and the EPA show that wage inequality increases significantly in Galicia. The German gross salary is set as the third smallest of all autonomous communities." [[Mr. Lake Peñas shows a document.]] This is what the Galician Economic Forum says. When you only tell one part, you're lying. There's economic growth, we're out of recession, but most of that economic growth stays in one's hands and leaves the majority social. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's exactly our criticism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u52	No, no, quiet. They don't dialogue, because if they don't, this is ingovernable. Quiet. Then he speaks. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Let's continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u53	When we have a tax...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u54	Mr. Lake... silence, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u55	When we have a taxation like that of Bulgaria, the fiscal strategy of a country that had a decent government would be to bring us as close to the European ratios as possible as possible to be a normal state, and that is to increase income to make fiscal consolidation compatible, to increase public spending. But this in Galicia, in the Spanish state, ruled by the PP, is not so, because the strategy of the People's Party is the opposite: reducing tax pressure, reducing taxes, resulting in falls in public incomes that force cuts to reduce the public deficit. I'm going to say clearly: the reduction in public spending is not a coincidence, it's not a side effect of the crisis, it's not a collateral damage, it's a goal sought premeditatedly by the Government, and today Mr. Puy has shown it, because he just said here that lowering taxes, lowering tax pressure, lowering taxation, is the way the People's Party has to boost growth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u56	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u57	That is what Mr. Puy says and subscribes to him Mr. Montoro, because Mr. Montoro has just presented the budget programme for 2018 in the European Commission and says that the tax pressure in Spain is going to drop six tenths. As the advisor well knows, six tenths of GDP is EUR 7.278 million. Where does Montoro say he's going to reduce them? In health and education directly. That's why we say that this crisis was a scam, because it was taken advantage of to impose a change in the social model, where inequality, precariousness and the deterioration of well-being are the lines of this neoliberal strategy: to reduce the weight of the public in the economy and in society. One would think that the accist phase of the economic cycle started in 2014 — again, the accist phase of the economic cycle of GDP growth — had to be used to recover from the cuts from 2009 to 2013, which must have been imposed by the crisis and recession. But on the contrary, the orientation of the Galician People's Party's Government Strategy is to continue with the cuts with a new formula: there are no longer nominal cuts in expenditure, but what is produced is to reduce the weight of public spending in the classification, which I don't know what country lies behind Bulgaria anymore, but it seems that this is the goal, that we continue to reduce the weight of income and public spending, by devoting some of the less and less wealth to the provision of services and protection policies. This is a recurring debate I have with my advisor, I will say: in 2018 the budget increases by 2.9%, but in the macroeconomic framework nominal GDP increases by 4.2%. If the country's wealth increases by 4.2% and the budget by 2.8%, what does that mean? For the weight of the resources available to the Council of Galicia to develop public services in social policies is reduced in relative terms. That's an idea I think recurring, because, Mr. Counselor, Mr. Tellado, in November he again issued the IPC data. Do you know which one? 2% on an annual average. Don't laugh, Counselor, because that 2% was what allowed Audasa to raise the rates by 1.9%, because it's the inter-annual average of what we've been doing since November. And, of course, if the IPC goes up to 2%, the salaries of public employees are reduced, in real terms, and the lowest pensions in the entire Spanish state, which are those of the Galician state, suffer enormous deterioration. In view of this, we present a different model, an expansional policy model, a model that has a principle: we need to increase public income to combat inequality, poverty, and to generate well-being. And we say that what is happening is an unequal and unfair distribution of wealth in few hands, and that the fiscal policy of the Spanish State and the Council of Galicia must be precisely that: to tax, to pressure on large incomes, on wealth and on business benefits, on green taxation, on taxation that charges behaviors with negative externalities to have more resources than to allow an expanding policy and social welfare. I'm going to finish. The 2018 budgets that are going to be approved today in this House are disappointing, they are restrictive, they are mediocre, they're antisocial, they're continuous, they're neoliberal. They won't serve to improve the life of the citizenry or to start reversing the cuts. Nor will they be used to boost economic activity and regain employment. That's why we refuse them, and we continue to defend our amendments. In the face of resignation, cuts and permanent adjustment, what we propose is to increase income in order to finance an economic policy that drives growth, transforms growth into economic and social development, which is based on the productive economy and that brings greater wealth to a greater well-being of citizenship, combating inequality, precariousness, poverty and exclusion. So let's say it in a sentence: we agree with the Government, the economy has come out of recession, but we keep saying that Galician society is still in crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u58	Thank you, Mr. Lago. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Summary of the morning: those who denied the crisis and the accomplices of those who denied the crisis are those who now deny economic recovery. That's a bit of a summary. And there are two models: what we're applying successfully, because the figures demonstrate this, and the model that was in the polls and that the Greeks refused a year and three months ago. You go on your way, because of course, Galicia was fine with you. So we're going to continue working for Galicia. The data is on the table. Today 16,300 unemployed less than a year ago, today memberships of Social Security grow around 20,000 new members each year and are therefore already more than three and a half years since April 2014 which creates jobs in Galicia. You don't see it, you don't want to see it, because you're the one who created this crisis and therefore denied the crisis then and now you deny any hint of recovery. And the recovery came to Galicia, the indefinite increase in recruitment and the full-time recruitment. You follow that paralysis in which the opposition is found, because it's true that Galicia is good for you to continue there. Look, this debate is similar to the one year ago. A year ago, we were also talking about budgets. You handled the same catastrophic speech, dramatic speech, apocalyptic, and that was your vision of the Galician panorama, very similar to what they develop today, but the fact is that in the last twelve months the economy in Galicia has grown above 3%, has grown above the Spanish average, beats export records, around a 10% increase in the last twelve months and we have less unemployment than in October 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, Mr. Lago. That's the situation that's undeniable. So you're still sitting in that speech, which is very bad for you, and Galicia is, of course, fine for you. Look, the reality is that in the Galician Parliament the opposition lives very comfortable, installed in that speech on the knee, on the knee of the majority, and its position is that you defend, when reality is quite different, and it's no other than either the opposition doesn't want to reach agreements, which is what happens to them especially to the Podemos tides and to the BNG lords, or they just propose measures that can't directly vote in favour of an obvious criterion, which is the criterion of responsibility. Because your amendments to the articulation of the law, which was what we came to talk about—beyond the analyses you wanted to do, Mr. Lago, we were talking about the amendments to the articulation of the Budget Law; I say that because you did not refer to them at all—they can be grouped into five major categories: the first, those that contradict the state basic legislation; the second, those that would cause an increase and therefore a failure to comply with the deficit; the third, those that would remain agile in the ordinary management of the Galician Union; the fourth block, those that prejudice the local administration directly; and the fifth block, those who ask for matters that are already regulated or that information that is already published. And that's good enough to be fine, but it's true that's what you're proposing in many cases. Look, amendments that would increase the public deficit. We are still surprised that political parties that preach with solidarity at the end are so deeply insolidated with future generations. That's what happens to the Tides of Podemos. You not only ask us to raise taxes today, but you ask us to raise it to the next generation of Greeks, proposing to us policies that would increase the deficit and, therefore, the debt they should pay in the following years. That's Mr. Lago's proposal, that's the proposal for the Red Seas of Podemos. The three minority groups want Galicia not to be shielded from any eventual and unexpected drop of income, and what we're asked is that we don't have any savings instruments in our hands. Of course, a good clue is what their government revenue would be if they won the elections and if they were able to agree with the three groups. The model would be: more taxes, the model would be more deficit and the model would be more debt, which would be translated into more taxes and less services for the future. So, there are amendments that directly contradict the basic state legislation. BNG asks us to comply with the basic rules in everything that it has to do with the remuneration of public employees, to the point where they want us to pay the salaries to professionals who work in concerted education centres and at the same time demand that these concerts be eliminated. Hey, agree! What cannot be installed in absolute contradiction. Then there are amendments that would remain agile to the Greek administration. You obviously don't believe in an efficient, agile administration, and it's only explained that they propose amendments that, in the end, they seek to slow down the management of the Galician Union. You believe in public management as a factory of citizens' locks, it demonstrated when we passed the Galician Business Implementation Act. You understand administration as a mobile with static compartments where there can be no communication between departments -- so they worked when they had the opportunity to rule four years in Galicia -- or as an elephant unable to move according to the situation in which they are found. Your model is to remain flexible in the management of funds or in your transfer between departments. And then there's the amendments that directly harm the local administration. BNG requests that agreements, grants, transfers to local entities be redeployed to increase unconditional funds through the Galego Cooperation Fund. What they don't seem to know is that many of the funds granted to the municipalities and that many of the grants granted to the Greek municipalities are of a finalist nature and come from games that could not be incorporated into the Galician Cooperation Fund, and in practice what you propose would reduce efficiency to the procedure currently being carried out in accordance with current regulations. By which, a measure that you intend to help the local authorities would be frankly harmful to these same local entities. And then they ask for amendments that propose things that are already being done in our community. They ask us to regulate these already regulated issues, ask for questions on subsidies that are already collected in the current grant regulations, ask for information published on the Galician board's Transparency Portal, such as public contracts, advertising expenses, or simply for a budget control office, when, since the reform of the Board of Auditors, this body is already fully qualified to perform these functions. BNG tells us that this is not a technical debate, that this is a political debate, then, the important thing is not to present amendments that can be rigorous, that can be developed in reality, that it is important to debate, that we debate for debate, even if Galicia is wrong. That's the BNG model, they've shown it when they talk about that coupon, which would be bad for our community, but their model is to argue for a debate that has to be political, but technical, nothing. And you know what happens? That January 1, 2018 we have to have an executable budget that meets the needs of all Galicia. We already know that for the BNG—that they were about to come here on a scooter, because they were going to take out 2 Members, they finally come to the Scene, because they pulled out those who drew— this is a game, because in the end the important thing is that they saved themselves. But this is much more serious, because Galicia's interests and the interests of the Greeks are at stake, and the important thing is that we now approve an budget that comes into force on January 1, 2018. Madam Presas, that's what's important, that it has to be in force and that it has to respond to the real needs of the street Galicians. I know that the BNG continues to be gripped by that Marxist-Leninist hatred to everything that has to do with private companies; they pull out the red labeler, they've cut everything that's got private companies, and that's the amendment technique in these budgets for the coming year. [[Laughter]] And this happened in the partial amendments, in the total amendments to the budget, in the partial amendments to the councils in the committee debate and also in the debate of the joint text. Look, they call for the withdrawal of all the funds for concerts with educational centres, for the removal of all these funds, but then for the recovery of the extra payments for teachers from these same centres. What are we left with, gentlemen of the BNG? What are we left with? As far as Mr. Losada's intervention is concerned, I have to say that this week, Mr. Losada, is not the best week for the Socialist Party to talk about under the Royal Corporation. It's not the best week, it's not. Keys, Grignan and many charges of the Andalusian Board are happening, precisely these days, through the bankill, to account for a fraud: the fraud of the Andalusian ERE. Almost EUR 1 billion has been cheated. All corruption is bad, Mr. Losada, but don't point your finger at this side permanently, it won't be that reality takes your finger there and signals your own party. [[Mr Tellado Filgueira pointed out with his finger the seats of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.]] So, a little bit of sentinel. Don't join the opportunistic populism of the Tide Lords and once again abandon that complex socialism, because, in the end, it's the attitude they develop every day. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In this sense, I must acknowledge the constructive nature of the Socialist Party — perhaps not in today's debate but in the process of these budgets — which has allowed us to add different amendments tabled by the Socialist Party. What I do want is to thank you again for your ability to dialogue, so we could accept two of the amendments that you presented to us and we could trade in two more. So I think that constructive spirit that sometimes comes out of the Socialist Party, when it doesn't copy the rest of the opposition, is good for Galicia and is certainly good for the Greeks and the Greeks. Mr. Lago, I follow up on your initial statement in your speech. In this House you cannot be insulted, indeed. But, hey, do what they say. I say this because one of his predecessors, Mr. Beiras, came to this House and was so constructive that he called a member of our group "American barbed pot," "Nazi nazi", "morocco"... I understand that in his reply he will apologize for those statements by Mr. Beiras. And we can take it seriously when you speak on behalf of the Power Tide Group. Because, if not, I must understand that, when Mr. Lago comes here, he speaks for Mr. Lago and does not speak for his group. And if not, I suppose that in his next intervention he will come here and condemn those expressions that we repeatedly listen to the leader of this coalition of Power Tides. And, therefore, I also hope, Mr Lago, that you will take advantage of that intervention to correct those statements by your companion — if she is a companion, because in the end we don't know what party each of you is in. So, I suppose you will correct Mrs. Carmen Santos when she said that the lords of the People's Party were "women's killers." I'm saying it because, from those rows, we're still waiting for that excuse. I suppose you'll take advantage of it, because you gave us a kind of ethics, morals and good behavior in this gallery. As I believe in your intention, I suppose you will come here and tell us that you can't actually insult yourself from this gallery and apologize for Mr. Beiras and rectify Mrs. Carmen Santos. I think that's how we can start talking seriously. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And I suppose you will take advantage of, in addition — speaking of macho behaviors — to condemn those laughter that caused the mayor of the Crown, Julius Ferreiro, who used the image of our spokesperson in the Town Hall of Coruña to celebrate the birthday of the mayor of his party in Coruña. I suppose they'll also apologize for that use of a woman's image. I suppose they will, too. Look, it's curious about the amendments to the Power Tides. In his amendments to the articulate they do an intense review of the payroll of all the charges of the Government of Greece. He forgot to present it here, but it's one of the proposals he makes. It is curious that this claim comes precisely from a group whose spokesperson has as its only solid and continuous proposal over time what is the claim of its own salary. And, therefore, it's curious. Mr. Villares went into politics asking for a driver and secretary, and he faced all his party because he wanted to collect more than his statutes said — that was what happened at that time. The spokesperson for the Tides of Podemos doesn't know the most basic standards of the economy, but he perfectly manages a concept, which is the concept of lossful profit. That one knew him well. And besides, he was able to invent the concept of "just minimum wage", which was his own. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Fair minimum wage! [[Murmurs.]] And he put it in 1,000 euros. [[Applause]] But he seemed so fair that he wanted to charge three times the minimum fair wage, because it was fair but little. [[Applause]] Then he wanted him three times just. For him, of course. And now they come with an amendment that you ask is to lower your salary to the entire German Government. Well, it's not the most serious thing they say, I have to tell you. We, of course, have seen them in recent times at the Tides of We can propose stars in their short political life. In budgetary matters, they have the Star's proposal to raise taxes massively, that's the Star's proposal. As far as industry is concerned, they have the Star proposal to close all companies that create value in our country. And in terms of employment, they have the proposal to repeal the labour reform that has enabled them to create jobs in Spain. All right, those are the three proposals. In the last few weeks, we have discovered a third-star proposal from the Weirlands on health, which is that people don't get vaccinated. I suppose you'll take advantage, Mr. Lado, of your opportunity to come to this gallery to also amend your plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u60	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u61	... Mrs. Senna for those frankly irresponsible statements. Look, I understand the role of the opposition is frankly difficult. The Government has brought a serious, rigorous budgeting project that is better — of course yes — through amendments, and, with which we could incorporate, we have done it. But the truth is that this is a hardly critical budget because all games grow, with particular reference to the consolidation of economic growth, job creation and the improvement of our public services. And, of course, his speech in the queue. In the queue because he's far from reality. And so we are not prepared to accept lessons from those who put Galicia and Spain in an unprecedented situation of crisis. We managed to get out of the hole where we got into that bipartisan and that government of the Champions League now claiming again from the Socialist Party. We want to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u63	...that Galicia will continue to grow, that Galicia will continue to create jobs. And we believe that 2018 budgets can be a great tool for continuing to lower our country's unemployment rate and for further strengthening public services in our community. Of course, to come with amendments that are fireworks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u64	Finish, please. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u65	...and that they are neither acceptable nor executables I think it's an exercise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u67	...of unprecedented political hypocrisy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u68	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. [[Pause.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u69	Hypocrisy, Mr Tellado, is that our country is presenting an evolution worse than the Spanish State in employment, population and wages and that you come here to tell us that we are leaving the hole, that is hypocrisy. Actually, that's hypocrisy. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And to show — after in five minutes many data cannot be put on the table — something interesting is to see the fixed picture of the average payrolls in 2016, in the last year closed, and the fixed picture of the average payrolls in 2008. And without getting in on how you distribute that at the level of the number of perceivers, because we see how we don't move forward. The average wage for jobs was higher in 2008 — EUR 4.330 — than in 2016 — EUR 4.135 —. And the same is true of the average wage of employees and employees together, the same is for pensioners and unemployed, etc. So -- I didn't talk about the financing model in my first intervention -- we have the same average salary with you after almost a decade of political negotiations, the same frozen image and nothing new and positive for our country. Well, by answering some of the issues that came out — although I don't know if I'm going to be given time at all — let's go to the parties. You paint an image as if we, I don't know, were to set us on fire to teaching with all the student and the teacher inside and that we stay so wide, when those who are absolutely incoherent are you. We do what we do in the articulated is eliminate the blockade that you imposed on the workers and workers of the concert, who have been waiting since 2009 to lift the blockade of their wage negotiations, also affected by their policy of cuts. That's at the same time that we delete the articles that lead to a new concerted unit being made. They are two different and perfectly coherent and compatible debates. What he didn't say — because I imagine he has no proposal to do — is what to do with the professor of public teaching and why to continue, he looked at budgets articulated, evaluating his temporality and partial contracts, and why they don't have a single proposal would be to correct the situation of 60 percent of the teaching staff having a temporary destination. Almost 20 percent of this professor has been in this situation between nine and ten years. You'll say it's because of the crisis. But if the crisis is over, do something to correct this situation, for example. Then they say there are questions that are already being asked. It has already been sufficiently informed to this Parliament and therefore there is no need to improve either support or frequency or anything at all. That is from the perspective — I insist — of those who are not interested in continuing to hold these debates. Because they do not always comply with the deadlines — for example, the September budgetary changes, the ones that first hung up only one index and it took time to hang up the full information, and so many others. So we didn't buy you that argument either, Mr. Tellado. For moving forward some more questions, you spoke of Marxism-Leninism. For Marxism-Leninism and Marxist analysis of reality, also seeing how the evolution of the world and the evolution of capitalism were, shows us that a fairer division of wealth and power came at no time by a free and beneficial gift from the capital. Never! Not at all. He has always come to fight for the working class and for movements like nationalism and sovereignist movements, who have always fought against the equal distribution of social classes and also of territories. [[Applause]] But with you, we have more Galicia-State inequality and more inequality with the worst social classes going through. And — I insist — we have a worse evolution than the state in many respects. So we will continue without buying that argument that with the same recipes we will achieve different results, because we insist that today we have a more unequal Galicia than ten years ago, when that crisis began. And you talked about the financing model, because I came here in the argumentary to read this one from the concert and then it was his turn to do it. I insist that since the Galician Nationalist Block we defend and defend that position, and we will have the opportunity to continue to deepen it. But what is really worrying is that, despite the fact that this country and these public archives have lost more than 9,000 million euros since you rule -- what is a board budget -- here you don't give a single explanation of what you're going to do to recover those lost resources. Just like they don't give a single explanation of what their model is or a single explanation of whether Galicia has objected to the experts' report or absolutely nothing. So once again it's an example that there are fundamental issues for this country that the opposition has come here to render accounts and explain our model but that you don't. Why? Because they don't just have a different model beyond absolutely deregulating everything and continuing in a self-comprehensive loop that, of course, the social majority of this country will not take us anywhere, and give us an ever more unequal image of a Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Tellado, well, the truth is, you come here today to talk about Andalusia and the ERE... One question — how does it turn — how did the former President of the Madrid Community say that the treasury of the PP controlled the contracts of the Madrid Community, in the case of Galicia, was the same? Does Galicia's PP treasury control Galician union contracts? No, I wonder, it's a pure intellectual concern. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have a shift to answer me later. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Do you know what happens? It turns out there's a firm conviction in the Igape. It turns out there's an investigation in Gain. And it happens that in the training courses there was a winner of Montepío who has now disappeared. These are the three fundamental factors of the productive structure of this autonomous community and of the Government of Galician Union. So don't come here to talk about the ERE of Andalusia. Or speak! [[Murmurs.]] They're talking about everything they want! [[Murmurs.]] In any case — I insist — [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u72	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u73	Course patents, Mr Pazos, have pirates, as you well know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u74	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u75	He called us killers once.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u76	Silence! They don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u77	Yes, he called us socialists once.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u78	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u79	So that's enough!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u80	No, no, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't talk!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u81	No, no lie, no, that living cal is worth a lot of things but also to bleach.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u82	Of course! All right!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u83	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u84	Also for bleaching.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u85	Please, another level of debate, please. We're on Christmas!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u86	Therefore, "Soto del Real Corporation" exists, they like it or not. And it is an element that, beyond the judicial dimension, has a relevant political importance because corruption — or the alleged corruption — of the Public Administration is an element that goes against economic growth and the efficient allocation of productive factors. I'm sure you studied it at some point, Mr. Tellado. I therefore believe that it should be a little prudent on these issues. Look, the origin of the crisis, the origin of the crisis — no matter how much they repeat it a thousand times — was neither the Bipartite nor Zapatero nor anything else. No, it wasn't PP either, it wasn't PP. But it was the right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was the right! [[Murmurs.]] It was the right, it was the economic and financial deregulation that made the markets turn into the jungle and the financial system jump through the air. And if not, give us a more coherent alternative explanation, because I've never heard it here, eh! Because, of course, to me that first-rate intellectual contribution that the Bipartite is the cause of the Western economic crisis... man!, because it is very well as a dialectical resource here of Mr Tellado. Well! well! but, in any case, an explanation alternative to the crisis, if they have, tell her. Tell her there someone from the People's Party, because I've never heard her, I've never heard her. I'm impatient, Mr. Tellado. The truth is, I feel like Socrates, waiting, really peripathetic, for the intellectual contribution of that origin of the crisis that you're going to tell us. What is true is the redistribution of income and wealth in Galicia and Spain governed by the right. See, while in the euro area as a whole for every 100 euros in which the salary is increased, the remuneration of the capital increases 77 – 100 euros the wages, 77 the capital — in Spain, for every 100 euros of the wages, 356 the capital. I don't know who caused the crisis — which I do know — I know what interests the governments on the right, I know what interests the governments on the right. [[Applause]] And you can come here talking about EREs, you can come here talking about what you want, but the political agenda on the right is what it is. And in the pact they signed in Vienna last Friday, the right and the extreme right, you know what the fundamental themes were? They were reducing bureaucracy, simplifying working hours, reducing tax burdens and enhancing aid to families. Does that sound good? Or doesn't that sound like them? Doesn't this sound to them? Oh, because maybe it didn't sound to them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I'm sure they're lonely too, I'm sure they're lonely too... No, no, I didn't sign anything. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sure they're also hearing the absolute negative balance of this government. Look, do you know that the creation of companies has fallen further down in Galicia than in Catalonia in the last month, in October, that one so affected by the process — which, indeed, is it? For it has further reduced the creation of businesses in terms of percentages in Galicia. Hey, can you really come here and tell us a story that this country is doing well, and so on? No, it's not good! This country is doing well in macro terms. It's actually growing. But the redistribution of income and wealth is more unequal than ever. Understanding for never a close historical period, of course. I'm not talking about the 17th century, it's obvious. But, without any doubt, these problems exist and are there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u87	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u88	It's over, Mr. President. And I ask the same question again: how do wages that grow under the IPC, a systematic loss of the purchasing capacity of workers in the face of increases in business profits and dividends of large companies quoted? Because in this, which is the fundamental theme, the size of the cake is very important, but as important as the size is how it is divided. And from this division the People's Party here never speaks. And what I'm asking you to be able to discuss political issues and different political options is that it contains us as you think you are sharing the cake, and it seems reasonable to you that while wages are literally frozen, despite the torturing use of some data, IBEX companies divide into dividends of EUR 30 billion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u90	...i.e. 1% of Spanish GDP.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u92	Tell us something about that, beyond...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u93	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u94	...of the ERE of Andalusia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u95	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u96	Mr. Tellado, the tides of Podemos, of the United Left, of Anova, of Cerna, the municipalist tides that govern The Coruña, Santiago, Ferrol, Cangas, The Poor, the organization of the oppressed people who want to end corruption and the antisocial policy of the People's Party, that's us. That's us. [[Applause]] I'm not going to fall into a debate in the mud, because there I know I'm going to lose. Whoever practices this kind of debate more always has the advantages, and I'd rather give the data and debate with rigour. And there's economic growth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u97	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u98	I still think this is a serious camera where the popular sovereignty of the Greek people resides. I still think so! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Every time I have more difficulty accepting it! But I still think it's a serious camera where the sovereignty of the Greek people resides. [[Murmurs.]] GDP will grow from the third quarter of 2014. There's economic growth, but there's no social recovery. I'm going to give them the data to see if they have the right to adopt them. Today there are 153,000 less unemployed than before the recession. Less employment and more precarious, because the precarious rate since 2013 has risen by 5 points, and 27% of jobs are temporary. Half the working class in Galicia is precarious: 27% have a temporary contract, 14% work part-time, and 15% work between unemployment and precarious work. In the case of women, worse, because the rate of temporality is 29%, the rate of bias is 22%, and the rate of unemployment is 17%. There's fewer jobs and more unemployment, because there's 201,500 people looking for a job, 100,000 more than before the recession. There are 175,000 dwellings, where about half a million people live, where some of their members are unemployed. And within them, there are 65,000 homes with all their assets unemployed; and within them there are 33,000 homes with no income, no wages, no pension or unemployment benefit. In Galicia, there are 450,000 employees who earn under 1,000 euros, 1 out of every 2 employees does not reach the millionaire in our country — data from the Tax Agency. And within this group there are 200,000 people who, because they work with low wages and few months a year, don't even reach EUR 325 per month. That's our country, too. And that explains that, in real terms, the Greek families had lost 20% of their purchasing power in the recession, the Greek families are, on average, 20% poorer than in 2008. In Galicia, 44% of the 1,160,792 homes that make up our country enter less than EUR 1,500, adding the income of all people. And within them, there are 259,501 homes, Counsellor, 259,501 homes, which, by adding up to the income of all their components, do not reach 1,000 euros, 1 out of every 5 homes in Greece does not enter 1,000 euros a month. In Galicia there are 492,043 people living in homes with lack of material resources. In Galicia there are 362,091 women and 327,310 men at risk of poverty or social exclusion, 25 per cent; 1 out of every 4 Greeks and Galicians are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. We do not argue that there is economic growth, what we denounce is that economic growth is made about inequality and precariousness, that we leave the recession but we do not leave the crisis. Because most of Galician society is still living in that situation. Galicia today, the Galicia that you rule, is a country that is more unfair, more unequal, more poor, with less social protection, with less labour rights, with worse public services, with less employment, with less unemployment, with less depressed wages and greater job insecurity than in 2008. Mr Tellado, that is exactly what we want to debate, the reality of this country. And in that sense, we present our amendments, 42 amendments that would not serve, as you say, to increase the deficit. Because if I read them well, we would realize that what we present is basically amended to increase public income. And we do it from a perspective I've explained before: our country, Galicia, has to get closer, it has to look like Sweden and Denmark, not Bulgaria and Romania. And the social model of the People's Party, reducing tax pressure, reducing public income, making a fiscalization of capital income for the benefit of great fortunes, contributes to that model that the People's Party heads in Galicia. That's why we keep our amendments and we will vote in favour of the amendments of the Socialist Party and of the BNG because they are going to move economic growth to social recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u99	Thank you, Mr. Lago. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is we've just discovered them: the opposition lords are nostalgic. They'd like to go back to the year 2009 for pure nostalgia. And I have to tell them that what characterizes them best is lack of rigour. Look, in these discussions you've asked that if you go down to zero the potential staff that helps to provide services in the different councils, you've asked for down to zero the material expenses and the telephony expenses of the councils, which you'd like to see incommunicado. You've asked for down to zero the maintenance costs of computer equipment, insurance costs. That's your model. You're presenting amendments that are characterized by a lack of absolute rigour. That is the exercise of political hypocrisy which has been taking the lead over the past few months in this Parliament. Mr. Losada, I hope to be at your intellectual level when I tell you that, if you don't want us to talk about Andalusia, we don't talk about Andalusia, if you can't talk about the ERE of Andalusia this week... by the way, about funds for training and employment that have been diverted to other uses, almost EUR 1 billion, two former presidents of the Andalusian Board who are charged and seated in the bench, like half the Board of Andalusia... that's your model, Andalusia. Well, if we can't talk about Andalusia, then let's talk about Galicia, let's talk about Galicia. Because I have to tell you that this bipartisan that you claim as an example of virtues has only lasted four years, with two defendants, one from the Block and one from the PSOE. Is that your model? Not for us, of course, Mr. Losada. And so that's the data. Look, do you know why we got into the crisis? Do you know what you were doing when you were ruling and we got into the crisis? Spend 2,000 million euros that there wasn't. That's what there was. Maybe at the beginning of the crisis he had something to do with the real estate bubble that blew Zapatero up in 2011, and he's been ruling since 2005. Don't they have responsibilities at the beginning of the crisis? Well, Mr. Losada, I have to congratulate you on your party's usual political escapism exercise. You, who created the crisis, now deny recovery. [[Applause]] And, Mr. Lago, I, the truth is, I have to tell you that I don't see you as representatives of the oppressed, as defined a moment ago. I honestly don't see the tides of Podemos as representatives of the oppressed, I'm sorry to tell you. I don't know if the oppressed are the signers of the posters of the tides of Podemos, those who now receive all the minor contracts in the city of Coruña. Are those the oppressed? Those people did create jobs for you. They've been created jobs, they're the great beneficiaries of populism coming to the cities of Galicia where you rule. [[Applause]] And, Mr. Lago, you missed the opportunity to be consistent. I'm sure you sincerely believe that you can't come to this rostrum to insult, I'm sure you do. You are against the insults, from which Mr. Beiras pours out, from those who pour the voices other than his formation. And I sincerely regret that you didn't take advantage of your intervention to correct Mrs. Carmen Santos when she called us "women's murderers" or when Mr. Beers said the things she was saying. I'm sorry you weren't consistent with your posture. Look, we actually have a model, a model that is radically different from yours. It's a model of which we are quite proud. Look, Junta bet on lowering taxes. You, the opposition, bet on climbing them. The Union has wagered by reducing debt and opposition what it wants is more debt. You want to launch companies in Galicia, we want to attract them and create jobs. Mr. Lago, you want to close Reganosa, you want to close Ence, you're against the expansion of Citroën, you're against the technology of Rozas, you want to close the thermal power plant in the bridges and also in Meirama... Mr. Lago, you're against employment, you're against the economy, that's what they show every time they talk in this Parliament. So don't come here saying you're worried about the future of Galicia. You're the worst thing that could happen to Galicia if they ever reached the Government. You want to go back to 2009 because you're nostalgic. And you know what happened in 2009? You were putting us in the crisis. It is true that there is something good in 2009 that if we would like to re-enter. Look, for the Greeks the only good news of coming back to the year 2009 would be that the Tides of Podemos would not exist in our country. That would be a good thing for our community, you know? [[Applause]] I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is vaccinated. Galicia is vaccinated against irresponsible and opium populism representing the Podemos tides, Galicia is vaccinated against that rancio and obsolete nationalism installed in the 19th century and Galicia is vaccinated, despite what Mrs. Lidia Senra says...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u101	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u102	...against this complex socialism facing the radical left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u103	Quiet, quiet, Mr. Lago! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u104	Galicia will have budget, which will enter into force on January 1, 2018, as it plays, as it corresponds. Galicia will have a budget that will grow, Mr. Lago, an budget that will grow for the third consecutive year. And this is possible thanks to less taxes. I know you'd like to bribe the Greeks on taxes. We bet less taxes to boost the economy of our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u106	Less taxes, less debt, less deficit, more employment, more exports, more investment, more and better social services, that's what we're going to get with these budgets. [[Applause]] You go that way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u108	The Greeks, of course, voted another, chose another one a year ago. And you think the Greeks were wrong. Maybe you should think the wrong ones are you. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u109	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Vote on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for the year 2018 Vote for expenditure statements Voting of budgets of sections and instrumental public entities dependent on them
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u110	At the end of the debate we shall proceed to the vote. Close the doors, please. Pay attention, because it's a complex vote. I ask the members of the Bureau to help me with these votes. First of all, we're going with a joint vote on the budgets of sections and public entities that were not subject to amendments. Totally 41. Joint voting of budgets for sections and instrumental public entities that have not been subject to amendments. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes in favour, 20; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. The budgets of these sections and entities are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u111	We are now voting separately — because you have been asked by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group — to budget certain sections. I'm going to report it. Vote for budgets of section 01: Parliament of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 14; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. These budgets are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u112	We now vote three sections: Board of Auditors, Council of Culture Galicia and Council of Galicia. Vote of Budgets of Sections 02: Board of Auditors, 03: Council of Culture Galicia) and 20: Consultative Council of Galicia) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. These budgets are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u113	We now vote on the Economic and Social Council and the Galego Labour Relations Council. Vote for the budgets of the Galician Economic and Social Council and the Galego Labour Relations Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; abstentions, 33. The voting is positive. These budgets are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u114	We now vote on the amendments to the sections to which the amendments are kept. All the amendments tabled to each section will be voted on together with the killings I will now read. We started with section 04, the Presidency of the Galician Union. Here we vote on all the amendments together. Joint vote on all the amendments tabled to the budgets of section 04: Presidency of the Galician Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u115	We are now voting on amendments to the Vice-Presidentship and Council of Presidents, Public Administrations and Justice, starting with Amendment No 10 from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. Amendment No 10 to the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block to the budgets of section 05: Vice-Presidentship and Chairlorship, Public Administration and Justice. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u116	We are now voting on the rest of the amendments to the Vice-Presidentship, Presidency, Public Administration and Justice. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budgets under section 05: Vice-Presidentship and Chairlorship, Public Administration and Justice, unless voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u117	We now vote jointly for amendments to the Business Council. Joint vote on amendments to section 06: Business Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u118	We now vote on those of the Territorial Environment and Planning Council. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has asked for a separate vote on Amendment No 21 to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, which is what we are voting on now. Amendment No 21 to the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block presented to the budgets of section 07: Environmental Councilloría de Ambiente e Ordización do Territorial. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u119	We now vote on the rest of the amendments to this section, which are already voted together. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budgets under section 07: Council on the Environment and Planning of the Territory, except for the amendment already voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u120	We now vote on section 08, Infrastructure and Living Council. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budgets of Section 08: Infrastructure and Living Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u121	We now vote on those in section 09, Economics, Employment and Industry. There is a request from the Socialist Parliamentary Group for a separate vote on Amendments Nos 37, 38, 50 and 58 of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Vote of Amendments 37, 38, 50 and 58 to G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block presented to the budgets of section 09: Counselloría de Economía, Employo e Industria. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u122	We now vote on the rest of the amendments made to this section, together. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budgets of section 09: Economic, Employment and Industry Council, except those already voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u123	We now vote in section 10, Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order. There is a request from the Socialist Group to vote separately on amendments 206 to 238, both included, and 250 to 264 included, of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u124	Then it will be. Vote for Amendments Nos 206 to 238 and 250 to 256 of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to the budgets of section 10: Councilloría de Cultura, Educación e Ordinación Universitaria. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u125	And now we are voting on the rest of the amendments, together, of the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. Sorry, all the amendments, all together. Now you have to go together with the other amendments, listen to me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We just voted the ones you segregated from the block and now we're going to vote the rest, all of them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But that's new later. It's just that if they change my script... Hey, don't change my script. That's very difficult. Now you want to vote, then, all the amendments of En Marea separated?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u126	I understood that only those in which there were different votes within each group had to be modified. But in this case in the case of En Marea it will be the same vote of the Socialist Group. But I insist that the rules have changed, which is legitimate, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u127	No, no, this was spoken at the Speaker's Board. And it's been asked to send us information, and I'm following the information you sent me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u128	The information I sent you, I insist, is whether you can vote for the En Marea Group separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u129	In this case?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u130	In this case alone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u131	Well, that's good. The others have already been voted on. We then vote separately on the amendments by En Marea, which range from 206 to 264. Is that correct? We vote. Vote on Amendments Nos 206 to 264 of the G.P. de En Marea, presented to the budgets of section 10: Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u132	Now be careful, please. I ask you to pay attention, because if you don't, we're all confused. Now we're voting the rest of the amendments to this section together. Come on, let's vote. Fewer those of En Marea, who have already been voted, of course. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budgets of Section 10: Council on Culture, Education and Universitary ordination, except those already voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u133	Section 11, Health Counsellor. There is a separate motion for a vote by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on Amendment No 65 to the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Amendment No 65 to the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galician to the budgets of section 11: Health Counsellor. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u134	We voted for the rest of the amendments of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Joint vote on the G.P. amendments. of the Galician Nationalist Block submitted to the budgets of section 11: Health Counsellor, except as previously voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u135	We voted for section 12, Social Policy Council. We voted together on all the amendments. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budgets of Section 12: Counsellor for Social Policy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u136	We also vote together on the amendments to section 13 of the Rural Environment Council. We vote. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budgets of Section 13: Conseilerie do Medio Rural. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u137	We now vote section 14, Counsellor of the Sea. We vote all the amendments together. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budgets of Section 14: Counsellor of the Sea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u138	We now vote on amendments to the instrumental public bodies. We started with autonomous bodies, specifically the Galego da Vivenda e Solo Institute. We vote amendments together. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budgets of the Galego da Vivenda e Solo Institute. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40 The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u139	We now vote for the Galego Health Service. The Socialist Parliamentary Group called for a separate vote on Amendments Nos 102 to 108 of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We shall vote on these amendments. Vote of Amendments 102 to 108 of the G.P. the Galego Nationalist Block presented to the budgets of the Galego Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 40; abstentions, 13 The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u140	Amendment No 265 of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea was also requested separately. Vote for Amendment No 265 to the G.P. de En Marea presented to the budgets of the Galego Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 39; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u141	We now vote together the rest of the amendments. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budgets of the Galician Health Service, except those already voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u142	Public autonomous agencies. Tourism Agency of Galicia. We vote amendments together. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budget of the Galician Tourism Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u143	We voted jointly for amendments to the Galician Infrastructure Agency. We vote. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budgets of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u144	Instituto Energetico de Galicia. We vote amendments together. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budgets of the Instituto Energético de Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u145	Instituto Galego de Promoción Economique. We vote amendments together. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budgets of the Galician Economic Promotion Institute. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u146	Galician Innovation Agency. We vote amendments together. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the budgets of the Galician Innovation Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u147	Computer Centre for Tax, Economic and Financial Management. We voted for the amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote of Amendment No 29 to the G.P. de En Marea presented to the budgets of the Information Centre for Tax, Economic and Financial Management (CIXTEC). The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The voting is negative This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u148	Public enterprise entities. We started with the waters of Galicia, and we voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Joint vote on the amendments by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, presented to the budgets of the Galician Waters. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u149	Ports of Galicia. Amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the amendments by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, presented to the budgets of Portos de Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u150	Autonomic consortia. Galego Consortium of Services of Equality and Welfare. We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the amendments by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, presented to the budgets of the Galego Consortium of Services of Equality and Welfare. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The voting is negative These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u151	This is the vote on amendments. We now vote together, too, on the budgets of sections and instrumental entities. All in one vote. We vote. Joint vote on budgets for sections and instrumental public entities that have been subject to amendments. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. The budgets of these sections and entities are therefore approved. Voting of the articulated text of the dictation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u152	We are now voting on the articulated text of the dictatorship. There will be a joint vote on the amendments, but there are a few requests separately. In particular, we begin by voting on Amendments Nos 1 and 2 to Article 2(1) and (4) of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. We vote. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 and 2 to G.P. from the Nationalist Block Galego to Article 2(1) and (4) of the articulated text of the dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u153	There is also a request to vote separately on Amendments Nos 1 to 5 to Article 2(1) to (5) of the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea. We vote. Vote on Amendments Nos 1 to 5 of the G.P. from In Marea to Article 2(1) to (5) of the articulated text of the dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u154	We now vote on the rest of the amendments, together, presented to the articulated. We vote. Joint vote on the amendments tabled to the joint text of the Opinion, except those already voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u155	We now vote on the articulated. Voting of the articulated text of the dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. It is therefore approved or articulated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG053.u156	The votes were finished here and therefore the general budgets of the Autonomous Community were adopted by 2018. [[Applause]] Before we finish this plenary, it is good to remember today that, as today, thirty-six years ago, the Parliament of Galicia was born, with the first constitutive session in the Peace of Xelmirez. It's a good time for us to remember those who preceded us and the work they did. That's why we have autonomy and we have institutions. That's why we also have a better quality of life in Galicia. So it's good that we recognize them, and I want to recognize them. And thank you all too. You are Members and Members of the Galician Parliament and today is therefore a day of celebration. Over the course of this time, we have been valuing Parliament and we will continue to value Parliament. Parliament must be better known. We have finished here today the celebration of the thirty-five years, we have finished it here, but we must continue this work that Parliament is really familiar with. In that task we're all going to be. And since today is a day of celebration, we're all celebrating it now in harmony. We'll go back to full four, which today is a long day. We'll be back at 4:00. Good morning.
