ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. Let us resume the session with item 5 on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for oral reply by the President of the Council of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Galician Socialists on the results of the policies of the Italian Government on youth employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u2	Whenever you want, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u3	Good morning. Mr Feijóo, youth is the social group that is paying more intensively the effects of the crisis and austerity policies. It's true throughout Spain, but also in Galicia. The Banco de España still posted statistical information that corroborated this fact yesterday. I don't want to abuse statistics, but it's necessary to quote some figures. Between 2009 and 2016 in Galicia, people between 16 and 29 years of age are less than 102,000 in continuous decline which does not end, in addition, in 2012 or 2013, as a result of the fall of previous birth but also of migration balances. There are almost 100,000 less assets and 85,000 fewer people in this age group. Of course, since 2013 evolution is not so dramatic, rhythms change something. But economic recovery only allows this group of under 30 years of age to stabilize their employment rate, stabilize it, in a context of economic recovery. And it's still that occupation rate below the Spanish average. It's true that something improves the unemployment rate, but it worsens the rate of inactivity, compensating both things. And in the figures shown, the migration balance has disappeared — because it cannot be counted — which is negative in 10,000 or 12,000 people in this same period. In addition, the quality of employment is being resuscitated even in recovery. The bias rate, the part-time employment rate, in this collective increases from 15% to 22%. And here's a very remarkable gender difference, because for women it's 32%, and in addition to this bias rate it's not recovering from 2012-2013, it's still worse or stabilized also at the time of recovery. And not only the bias rate, the temporality rate also increases, and this rate increases more precisely from 2012. It's now close to two-thirds, almost two-thirds of jobs under the age of 30 are temporary jobs in Galicia. It's the youth that suffers more intensely from economic adjustment. Recovery does not offer a sufficient job offer, and the jobs it creates are temporary or partial in too high proportion. Indicators are improved despite the fact that there are fewer and fewer young people, with negative effects on the birth rate — why are they going to have children in these conditions? — on emancipation, on economic growth. Residential emancipation has continued to decline since 2013. The purchasing capacity of youth puts us in third place by the queue of autonomous communities. Their poverty rate is 37.2%. Are you satisfied, Mr Feijóo, with these results or are you thinking about changing policies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u4	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, allow me to contextualize your question so that you can contextualize the answer as well. The final unemployment data for 2016 have just been released. In total, Galicia drops to 23,000 unemployed less in 2016 than in 2015. The number of Social Security affiliates in Galicia has grown in the last year by 17,600 new members of Social Security. Regarding data from young people under 30 years of age, the unemployment rate lowers something else: 14.4%, 4.600 unemployed less among young people up to 30 years of age. As you will understand, Your Honor, these are the data we just met just a few weeks ago. I guess this data will still have value. It's true, Your Honor, what you mean by the decrease in the number of busy people, there's less busy at all ages, it's true, and there's less busy in all autonomous communities. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because, as you just said, we have not yet completely surpassed the economic crisis we inherited. In any case, I think that if you want to remain strict, you should not skip a data. There's less busy with all of this, but there's less busy because there's less young, and there's less young because they've been born less. Yes, Your Honor. The boys between 16 and 30 years of 2009 were born between 1979 and 1993. How many were born in that period? 423,000 boys. However, the boys between 16 and 30 years of 2016 logically were born between 1988 and 2000. How many were born during that period? Less than 110,000. Your Honor, you must not tell things like this, in such a mediocre way. Because 110,000 boys are born less and now says there's 100,000 jobs less, Your Honor, among other things, because there's 110,000 boys less. Your Honor, you also speak of the unemployment rate — youth, less than 30 —. Well, actually, the unemployment rate, when I took possession, when I took possession in 2012, was 36%, now it's 27.9%. Are we gonna keep working? The answer is yes. And, by the way, Your Honor, one reason is that 47% of the workers who had help from Galicia to find their job, 47% of the total, are young. And that's why, Your Honor, we're going to continue working, and for the past two years we've had a specific programme for the young people, the Youth Guarantee Programme, which you know; an improvement in integration -- we've just hired 56 guidance technicians -- and in the last legislate we've invested 150 million euros in active youth employment policies. Finally, do we still have a problem with young people being unemployed? The answer is yes. Are we better than when we started the 2012 legislation? The answer is yes. Are we better than the average of Spain? The answer is yes. Are we satisfied? The answer is no. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u7	I had understood that you had taken possession in 2009, but I can see that those years are removed from account. It's okay, no, it's okay. [[Applause]] The problem with these things, when you bring the ready answers, is that right down the number of young people is where I started, but it's that, when you go down in 100,000 the number of young people, you get the juvenile unemployment that we have given you an idea of the magnitude of the problem, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] But let's talk about your policies, talk about your policies. On the other hand, from the figures that you give, it is obvious that, contrary to what you have been holding here so far, there is a juvenile emigration of the order of 10,000 or 12,000 people; from your own figures, from the figures you have given. But let's talk about politics, since you introduce it. Galicia is taking part in the Youth Guarantee Programme, funded by the European Union, to address this urgent problem. That's why the program had a 2014-2015 deadline which then extends to two more years and reaches 2017. The first official evaluation of the program was already made on December 2015. And you know what he tells us? That Galicia used only five million euros of the thirty-nine peaks in these two years, five million thirty-nine peaks. They're very poor indicators. We are not being diligent in not using those funds that the European Union puts us right to address these problems at a time when the lack of youth occupation was the most serious of all. It's your responsibility for a little diligent management. But the 2015 Autonomous Community General Account and the settlement we know of 2016, in revenue -- which is where that information comes from, because it doesn't spend it because there's not enough transparency -- indicates that you have, as recognized rights, zero at this point. Well, one problem: of the 80,000 people in this group you only treated in these two years 16,000, and there are eleven months left to close the program, with one more year to be able to pay for it. The balance sheet is disappointing for a central issue in the country, for which the European Union sets out specific funds. And the responsibility lies with your government, but it is also yours if you persist in maintaining the policies and the people who led us to this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u8	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Lockdown, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Leicega, thank you for reminding me that we have won the elections in 2009. What happens is that comparing the economic policies of 2009 was very simple, you were ruling in Spain and producing the biggest economic crisis we know. So, Your Honor, I didn't think it was reasonable to make comparisons about when you were ruling, because when you ruled youth unemployment and total unemployment rose to the country's historic peaks. [[Applause]] You keep talking about the statistics, even though then you say you don't resort to them. And tell me no, the boys are now leaving. Your Honor, the more young people left Galicia was in 2007. And now, Your Honor, that we just got to know the data from 2015 -- I know it bothers you, Your Honor -- Galicia is the autonomous community from which fewer young people are leaving between 16 and 34 years old, 2.23% of the total youth; and in Spain 3.31%. I suppose this question is asked in Andalusia must be quite complex, Your Honor. But as you must make politics depending on whether it's evening or another time in different places... we speak of Galicia, yes, Your Honor. In 2007 in Galicia, 14,000 young people went out and are now leaving 12,000. But in all Spain, I insist, as a percentage of the total boys are leaving Galicia less than the rest of Spain. But if you keep asking me if I'm satisfied with the policies, I'm telling you not, with the active employment policies, because that program you're talking about is centralized funds, it's centralized funds, yes, Your Honor, yes, it's centralized funds. I say — if you let me explain — that the key to young people's work is training, because 70% of the unemployed did not finish secondary education. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the problem, Your Honor, and that doesn't happen in 2009, as you know. And that's why what we're doing is reducing school failure. We have the smallest school failure in our history. What we're doing is increasing our vocational training cycles. We have more young and more vocational training places than in our entire history. What we're doing is improving the supply of vocational training and adapting it to reality. We just found that 76.5% of the boys who completed vocational training found work in less than two years. What we're doing, Your Honor, is having the lowest university rates in Spain. What we're doing is sowing today to grow in the future. What we're doing is we're still running active employment policies. Tomorrow the Board will approve 22 million euros for active employment policies. We are in the first weeks of this year 2017, 22 million euros, more than 16 million euros for employment workers — beneficiaries are mainly under 30 years of age —, 4 million euros for employment workers, indeed, only for young people under 30 years of age — 400 beneficiaries — and training units in companies with a target of 450 beneficiaries. [[Applause]] Your Honor, is there much left to do? The answer is yes. Are the consequences of the economic crisis and the economic recession still unsolved by 100 percent? The answer is yes. But don't tell the young Greeks that they are the most emigration, because it's a lie. And don't tell young Greeks that they're the ones who have the most unemployed in Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u11	...because it's fake. And so, Your Honor, ask me one thing, ask me to keep working, but don't ask me to copy the youth unemployment policies of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u12	Thank you very much, President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the strategy of the Greek Government to avoid prejudices to Galicia derived from the financing model
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u13	Whenever you want, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u14	Thank you very much. Good morning, Mr. Feisó. I have to start by recognizing him yesterday, after his appearance, I was quite worried. I couldn't sleep tonight, but I was quite worried. Yesterday it made it very clear to us that you don't trust Galicia's ability and potential and that you believe we are a dependent country. And this isn't bad enough, because you're the president of the board. I don't know if you know, Mr. Feijóo, that Galicia is a surplus in the production of electricity. Look, a single German council, Caldas de Reis, produces more electricity than all Madrid. But we can't benefit from this wealth because there's a single tariff that prevents it. But it's more, we're paying one of the highest rates in the state, and the Greeks and the Greeks are paying a surcharge for sending electricity out. But this seems fair and normal to you. Do you know how far the light went? What would you rather, Mr. Feijóo, be a proper electric tariff that undermines the light for the Greeks and the Greeks or continues to defend the privileges and multimillionaire benefits of the electricians? I encourage you to go out to the street and explain it to the Greeks and to the Greeks who are getting cold because they can't afford the electricity that this is the model you're defending and that they don't want us to benefit from energy production. But it's more, I invite you to, since you're going out on the street to explain this to the Greeks and to the Greeks, also tell those Greeks who have suffered the crisis and the cuts why you want to prevent Galicia from having a fair financing system, which really guarantees us quality public services. It would be nice if in this debate you, for the first time, had put some data on the table. For the truth, Mr Feijóo, is that from the debate on funding you only have two achievements: one is to criticize the BNG and at the same time tell us the story that the Greeks are living from the work of others, and the second major achievement, in the financing system, was to sign this financing system, which you yourself have to recognise was an absolute fiasco for this country. We, with official data — Ministry figures — what we say is that if we make a real settlement of the taxes that Galicia bears — the last one is 2014 — how much does that winding up give us? EUR 11.131 million raised in Galicia. How much does the state give us? 7.034 in 2014. If we had a concert, the coupon we would have to pay the state would be 630 million euros. The difference is EUR 3,500 million in favour of Galicia, Mr Feijóo, who would have allowed no cuts during this economic crisis and would have prevented you from having to triple your debt, as you did. So, Mr. Feijóo, what we'd like to know today is why you're against whether Galicia benefits from its resources, why you don't want a Greek electric fare or why you don't want an economic concert system, which would allow us to have real financial autonomy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u16	Mrs. Pontón, stop worrying, don't worry. I believe in what I do, I believe in Galicia, I dedicate myself to Galicia and I couldn't dedicate myself to something I don't believe in. So be wary, be careful. Don't worry, Your Honor, don't worry. [[Applause]] Proof that I believe in Galicia is that I am convinced, because I just heard it, that BNG can change his mind too. You just said something important. He says, "The Reis Caldas Town Hall produces more energy than Madrid." Too bad you've always been against Umia's prey in Caldas de Reis, Your Honor! That's too bad! [[Applause]] Too bad, Your Honor, that you are always against producing wealth in Galicia. But that's the story, Mrs. Pontón, so you should worry a little more about yourself and stop worrying about the President of the Board, although I thank you, of course, for your solidarity. Look, Your Honor, I'm worried about the accounts they make, because they remind me of certain stories of certain independentists. I'm worried about the accounts they mention, in addition, the Ministry of Business. Does the Spanish Ministry of Business mean you? Well, I guess you can finally pass me the bills, because I'm liquidating here at the 2014 tributes, where I also put "Tributary Agency," and I have the liquidated resources, that is, the incomes of the Autonomous Community. And there is a difference — according to the Tax Agency — about what their accounts should be, and that is that we have income for EUR 2 billion less than what we have to do with the financing of the Autonomous Community. That's what the Tax Agency says, but, well, you must have another part of the Ministry of Business. I have the settlement of the Tax Agency. And I also have the Greek economists — you can imagine that not all of them will be against the country — who say that, at least, extending the concert system meant a deficit for Galicia of revenue of EUR 1 billion. And you seem to know some economist who says no, that not only will we lose 1 billion but we will gain so much that we could even give Spanish national solidarity 600 million surpluses. Mrs. Pontón, it's obvious that someone here is wrong. Maybe we're all wrong, except for you, or maybe you're wrong, and we're all right. I'm staying, Your Honor, with which people want to succeed, you too. What happens is that in this House we are 75 Members and 69 Members, and we do not agree with you. Therefore, I suppose that the 69 Members and Members of this House who believe that the concert is not a good plan for Galicia should listen carefully, Your Honor. The same way we listened to you very carefully. Mrs. Pontón, stop talking about it and let's talk about it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u18	Mr. Feijóo, the truth is, I can't believe you're here to defend this subject with this simplicity. According to that data you're talking about, Galicia doesn't count corporate taxes. How much does the State collect for corporate tax? Mr. Feijóo, according to this data, the tobacco tax is not recorded. It looks like we're not smoking or paying taxes. So what needs to be analysed is not the taxes that are part of the financing system, but all the taxes that are collected in our country. It sounds like a lie you don't want to make those accounts. [[Applause]] Really, Mr. Feijóo, let's do it. Let us put in place a committee in this Parliament in which everything is really analysed and clearly set the data. Because, look, it's funny that everyone recognises that the Basque concert was fundamental to economic progress and that they had better cope with the crisis. Catalans are currently setting up a fiscal pact, which is their model concert, because they know that they're going to win. And you want to continue in Galicia with a financing system that deprives us of EUR 3,500 million in resources that are key to financing our health care, our education, or dependence. But having that model would allow us to have full financial autonomy. Why don't you want to have a real self-government, Mr. Feijóo? You have to explain to us why you want to deprive us and why you want to put Galicia on the train from the regions and not on the train from the nations. Look, we're still with the tending hand so that, from confidence in Galicia's abilities and potential, we bet on everything. And an economic concert would only have advantages for our country. Similarly, Mr. Feijóo, who I don't think it's from receipt that he criminalized us yesterday for defending a Greek electric tariff. There's a lot of people in this country, in a country that's surplus in the production of electricity, that can't stop the heating. Just a year ago, in this very House we took into consideration an ILP, which promoted the IGC, to take action on the path of electricity tariffs and against energy poverty. Why did Mr Feijóo paralyze that law in Parliament a year later? If you believe and trust Galicia's ability, you will trust that we are not a dependent people, but that we have capacity and potential. And if you think we have to benefit from our resources, don't be complicit with the electric spolie and with the multimillionaire benefits of the electrics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Allow me not to answer much about the electrical issues, because En Marea's question is going on. I don't know if the interest of BNG is to answer the question of En Marea to the BNG, but I suppose parliamentary education requires that we talk about the BNG concert, not the problem of the electric tariff. In any case, the ILP you're talking about is being dealt with. I, Your Honor, would like to reiterate to you that it seems to me that the most important thing this morning in his intervention was to defend Umia's prey in Kings Caldas. It's not a minor matter, Your Honor. That's when the country's wealth is produced. And do you remember everything they did to Umia de Caldas de Reis? And now they're proud of her! That's what happens to us, Your Honor, between those we defend Galicia always and those we defend our ideology regardless of Galicia's interests. And this is your planning, Your Honor, this is your planning. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, there's something I've done better from the beginning than the nationalists, who went to attend the Conference of Presidents. If I hadn't attended the Conference of Presidents, you'd congratulate me now. Yes, I still don't know, because I have four or five attempts to find out exactly what the Greek nationalists are suggesting on this matter. Basque nationalists weren't and Catalan nationalists weren't. You think we shouldn't go? He has no opinion, I think. But the first step, Your Honor, was that, for example, yesterday the President of the Government has just said that he will appoint a commissioner for the demographic pact. I think that's good news for those who argue that demographic issues should regret funding from the state, and I'm sorry that you don't congratulate yourself for this. Can you imagine for a moment that this would have been achieved by the BNG in relation to the President of the Spanish Government on shift? That would be called "intelligent cooperation." Not ours, ours is called a beggar. Well, look, Your Honor, I will continue to defend Galicia, not Catalonia. And I feel nothing less than the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia. You know why? Because I have the same powers as him. With a difference, yes, Your Honor, with a difference: that I keep Galicia solvent and he broke Catalonia. That's the big difference between you and me, Your Honor. [[Applause]] I maintain Galician political autonomy, because I maintain its financial autonomy. And you wouldn't have political autonomy or financial autonomy. Look, Your Honor, you say that the tax agency does not liquidate corporate tax. No, here it appears, in the Tax Agency, that the corporation tax has liquidated in Galicia 1,164 million euros. These are the accounts of the Tax Agency. They don't help me, Your Honor, because the location of taxes has rhythms and keys that I don't share or interest. Do you know why, Your Honor? Why does it happen if a large Greek multinational is to be taxed exclusively here? What will the Catalans say that they have half a multinational or a room there and why don't they pay for that room here? So, what are we going to discuss, Your Honor? I think I remember you talking to me about tax balances. Is that what I was talking about? Because I guess he'll give me that information. Oh, not really? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, Your Honor, your source of the Ministry of Business would like to know if it's at least the 21st century. [[Laughter]] Look, Your Honor, or we are all wrong, or six Members and Members of this Parliament are wrong. Don't ask me to, to maintain a nationalist approach to Galicia, say things that aren't. Galicia is part of a state. By the way, it has thousands and thousands of euros in deposits in financial institutions that have here and that are facilitating investment elsewhere in Spain. I suppose he'll tell you that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u22	Your Honor, we're going to continue working, and continuing to work means telling the tales to the Greeks how they are. Galicia is entitled to a financing system based on the actual costs of the services it provides — this is our proposal, Your Honor — based on the demographic situation and on the situation of dispersion. Galicia is no less sovereign than not being a nationalist. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Question by D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, on the reasons of the Government of Greece to reduce and allocate to the payment of rent and energy supplies the funds of aid directed to families at risk of poverty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u24	Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, the first question you might ask would be if it's cold on Mount Pio. On Mount Pio it must not be cold, but in many Greek homes yes. [[Laughter]] According to IGE data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, 22.5% of the Greek households live according to the AROPE index at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Over the past year, extreme material poverty rates have increased in our country by more than one point, from 5.32 % to 6.59 % and, however, with this scenario, the People's Party has reduced from budgets from 2016 to 2017 the aid for the electric ticket from €2.100,000 to €793,000; i.e. 1,300,000 less for this same concept. It must have seemed to you that with climate change -- the one who denied Rajoy's cousin -- there's no problem with the cold in the Greek homes anymore, and that's why they reduce this ticket. It was last week that you were at the Conference of Presidents, and you also said, precisely in relation to energy poverty, that you talked about that subject. What was your position at the Conference of Presidents? Give a master class on a diversion of funds? And we say funds are diverted because in 2016, with existing games for the electric ticket, you diverted funds, initially assigned to these games, to other different games; specifically, 201,000 euros to illuminate the Gaiás, 140,000 euros to fix the legal defeat of Corcoesto and 8,000 euros to study the playful uses of thermal water. [[Applause]] It must be that for you energy poverty is a game, so they do that kind of deviation. In any case, Valle-Inclán would be proud of you. To remove funds for people who have no resources to illuminate the Gaiás, the graveyard monument, as well as the wasteland, in this case, electric... But this is just one of the proposals we wanted to make. The next one is related to another subject of which you won't know too much either. Because, like you with respect to the price of housing, you don't have to worry, just like the price of Vega Sicilia — because they come out of it for free just like the housing — you'll also think that the price of housing comes out free of charge to the rest of the people, when it's not so; people have to pay the housing just as they have to pay the wines. That's why you think people have no difficulty accessing a basic essential asset as a decent housing. And we don't say property anymore, but rent. That's why in 2016 you, once again, diverted 261,450 euros recorded in rental promotion games for other different purposes. In particular, the following items: EUR 111,400 for mortgage executions; EUR 81,000 for the Aluga programme; EUR 18,000 for the rental bonus programme; and EUR 50,000 for the empty housing programme. And all this while the General Council of the Judiciary, in data from the third quarter of 2016 — at the same time as you were doing this diversion of funds — said — and they are official data — that took place in Galicia 461 releases — not execution procedures but direct releases. They must not be worried about that. And do you know — that this is the worst of all — where did this money go? Paying the IBI that the board owed to the municipalities for their own real estate. Valle-Inclán would be proud of you, of course. Take the money away from the people who don't have to pay the housing to pay the taxes of the dwellings of the Union, conformable! You have a social policy of stone cardboard, which is false, which is cold and, of course, insensitive.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u26	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Villares, I do know what it's like to be cold because I was born in a house where there was no heating. And so until I was 14, when I changed the other one, I know what it's like to get cold. [[Murmurs.]] Maybe you don't. But I do know, I know what it's like to get cold. [[Murmurs.]] And about public housing you know enough, because they're able to buy public housing at 19-20 years old, Your Honor, and then, yes, sell it to others. Yes, Your Honor, you know enough about public housing. [[Applause]] So it's no wonder you're asking me for what you already know. [[Applause]] Look, Mr Villares — returning to the interest of the question — says that I went to the Conference of Presidents and that I had talked about the ticket. Look, I said two things: firstly, that we are in a state and that the logical thing is that in the electrical problems, which are the exclusive competence of the state, the central government is trying to implement a proposal; secondly, that in the autonomous communities — that we are currently having social programs to improve the difficulties of families with difficulty in paying for light — the logical thing is that we all implement a part of our budget to suit those needs. And I also said Galicia was a reference, because we've been having these problems since 2014. The electric ticket — one of the first autonomous communities, I don't mean the first, although I think so — is German: 300 euros a year. The automatic mechanism for no light cuts in Galicia we agreed here, Your Honor. And no one can cut off the light without prior notification to the Galician Union. And in 2017, in addition to realising and securing the electric ticket and 300 euros a year, they can't cut the gas either. And we're going to guarantee gas as well. Since 2014 we have helped 6,000 Greek homes. I suppose that's worth it, Your Honor. And now tell me that the corresponding match is not executed in its entirety. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because we take care of all the requests they made. And those who don't get here can't take care of it. So everyone who asked for this help, everyone, gave it to 100 percent of the Greeks who asked for this help, gave it to them. So, what am I accused of, Your Honor? [[Applause]] It's the first time I've been accused of having an excessive budget, it's the first time. "You have an excessive budget in social policy, and it turns out that then, as you don't exhaust it, you spend it on other things." Your Honor, what do you want me to do? I insist: in Galicia we have 300 euros a year and we guarantee that there are no light cuts without prior notification and no gas cuts either. But about transfers, look, Your Honor, as I don't know exactly what you're doing lately, I do see the transfers from other public administrations. There's a social income transfer in the Town Hall. I had the budget of 2.1 million euros. Do you know how long they reduced this game? Not 85%. They made a transfer of 1.8 million euros, i.e. they reduced the credit to 85% in the income of social integration of the Crown. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you know what they dedicated to? [[Murmurs.]] Well, look, to pay off the debt of the Municipal Business of Services and Activities and to buy bicycles. That's very reasonable, Your Honor. [[Protests.]] So, exactly, what do you ask me? Why does the Town Hall of Coruña reduce the shares of integration income to 85%? I'm sure that's why you don't ask me, but maybe it was the answer I was looking for. What about the Town Hall? Your Honor, I'm not going to talk to you about the Town Hall. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u29	It is good that you take advantage of Parliament to oppose the Council of the Crown which it cannot do there in the plenary. There's no problem, spend your time as much as you want, because you can't use it to answer your questions. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Because, of course, equipping budget shares and then diverting the funds... so, man! so equips anyone. Yes, yes, I shall now refer to the concept of deviation, indeed. [[Murmurs.]] It's very good to say that all requests are met, but there's a problem reported by workers and social workers on this issue. And it is that the administrative requirements leave out many people who would objectively be within that framework. Because you won't tell me that 5% of the population in extreme poverty is going to benefit from the ticket, because they don't come out. Theirs don't leave either. And we're talking about diverting, yes, we're talking about diverting funds with that intent, because we know that apart from that concrete social perception of something that gets dirty, that gets dark. Because you guys do something in the dark. Look, the 200,000 euro match that ended up buried in the Gaiás bulbs came out of the electric ticket. But it was by means of a budget game exchange structure to conceal it from the electric ticket to Mount Gaiás. And you know how they did it? Yes, yes, on November 4, 2016 they removed 261,000 euros from the share of the social electric ticket for a program called "gasification plans" on November 4. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you know how long that game lasted in the gassing plan? Eleven days. On November 15, all that departure was transferred — literally all, in full — to Mount Gaiás. So two conclusions: first, there was no intention of making a gassing plan; and, secondly, you wanted to hide that you took the money from people who didn't have for electricity to bury it in Mount Gaiás. Tell you that, it's okay, but they don't hide themselves through false structures that aim to conceal the fate of funds, just as it does the Swiss-based Basilicas by creating interposted societies. [[Applause]] This is the same thing. [[Murmurs.]] You have the opportunity to get up and explain why they created this budget game change structure to conceal that they were from the electric ticket to Mount Gaiás. And finally another question, since you have drawn up here on the subject of demographics before — and of what you have also taught, by the way, at the Conference of Presidents. Also in 2016, 25,000 euros were reduced by a share of the People's Reconciliation and Dynamic Plan to pay a sentence for which they were sentenced for null dismissal — null or less, it was not inaccurate, null.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u31	So you also explain if that's your demographic policy. We insist on what we have said before and we will continue to say it: its social policy is of stone paper, it is cold, insensitive and, above all, false. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u32	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Shut up. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, what were the electrical ticket games? All those who asked for the electric ticket, all 100 percent. We're all responding to the requests. You lower social policies by 85% in the Coruña. And do you know how much help they gave in the Coruña? One. And do you know how many public employees hired to take that program? [[Murmurs.]] I'll say that in another answer. [[Laughter]] Look, Your Honor, where did the games go? Well, look, to drive the proximity trade and the range squares — you are against, of course, promoting thermalism in the autonomous community — which is a source of income, by the way — to develop energy efficiency measures in the City of Culture — are you against saving costs in the City of Culture? Well, it may be—and defending Galicia's interests before the International Court of The Hague for Corcoesto's demand, because we defend Galicia's interests—there are entrepreneurs who denounce us for that but we defend them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we really defend the citizens. Do you know how many sanctioning files were opened in pre-electric governments? Nine files amounting to EUR 97,000. Do you know how many files we opened to the electricians? 2,400 files amounting to 23,8 million euros. That's how we defend the German consumers, Your Honor, by opening sanctions files to electricity companies for an amount of EUR 23.8 million. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] There is no diversion here, Your Honor, there is defense of the country. [[Applause]] And that's what we're going to do. In the area of poverty and social inclusion we have increased the assumptions. Among those we received from a progressive government, which was dedicated to 66 million, to those now dedicated to 98 million, there is an increase of 47%. Yes, Your Honor, we executed them, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Unfortunately, we're running these because there's a lot of needs in the country. Yes, Your Honor, we have not diminished by 80% of the social inclusion game as you do. We executed her. And that's why, Your Honor, we will continue to implement our policies. I repeat again: this is the first time that a member of Parliament criticises me for an excessive budget. This, of course, is part of Parliament's history. [[Laughter]] It is true that this parliamentarian has little history in Parliament. But, of course, something important has just begun, which is to criticize the Government for making an overbudget in social policies. [[Applause]] All those who have applied for the help of the electric ticket have received the help, all those who need the help of the electric ticket and also the gas will continue to receive that help. By the way, Your Honor, we have agreed with the municipalities of the country, and we have agreed with the 26 NGOs. Yes, Your Honor, we agreed on our social agenda, 160 million euros. Your Honor, we're going to do what's in our hand so people who are going through the most problems don't perceive the rising of the light. Yes, we're going to do whatever's in our hand. Now, are we willing to expand the daily population of the electric ticket? Yes. Are we willing to study expanding that population? Yes. Now, if you ask me to oppose the Crown, I won't, Your Honor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But I'm also the president of the corrupts, you know? In the city of Coruña we had many more votes than the rest of the parliamentary groups. [[Murmurs.]] I defend the corunas, and I defend the vicars, and I defend the lumens, and I defend those of Compostela. I defend all the Greeks, because those are the ones who vote for us, Your Honor, all the Greeks — those of the Crown too. And that's why I think it's a joke that a representative of En Marea will tell me we're making a budget change after we've run out of all the requests and you're going to cut down on their 85% social policies, and they have an application. Nothing else. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u35	Before continuing with the non-law proposals, I would like to inform you that you have justified the absence of this plenary Mrs Paula Quintero for a health problem, and also a change in the agenda that has to do with the interpellations: the second one will be discussed in the fourth place, and the fourth one will be discussed in the second place. We continue with non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga and seven other Members, on the impetus for the Galician Union to develop and approve a specific aid programme for single-parent families
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u36	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the En Marea Parliamentary Group and the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u37	A little silence, please; otherwise, it will be difficult for you to present the proposal to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Today we are presenting an initiative on single-parent families. In 2011, a law was passed, the Family Support Act and Galician coexistence, a law that states that the family, in all its manifestations and forms of organization, must be protected by public authorities. This support must also respond to the complexity of our Greek society and give solution to the different families or stable groups of coexistence. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that not all families are equal or have the same needs and characteristics. For this reason, this Family Support Act recognizes as families of special consideration single-parent families, large families, families with senior dependants, families with dependent persons with disabilities, families with dependent dependants and foster families, and also includes a preferential treatment for them: preference in the adjudication of squares in public childhood schools, preference in the call for aid from the Bono Concilia and the Bono Cuidad, preference in access to children's homes, consideration as a priority group in the assessment necessary to access the Risga, consideration as a preferred group in employment promotion programmes and assistance for employment integration or consideration as a preferred collective in the various measures of the Home Plan. Article 5 of the same law, of the Family Support Act, establishes the development by the Galician Board of Directors of a Family Support Plan and an integral birth support plan, such as family support planning and demographic revitalization. According to this forecast, first of all, a Galician demographic dynamisation plan, which collects a wide range of actions and proposals to support the Greek families, as well as a programme to support birth. At this point, EUR 123 million has been allocated to children and the family; we are talking about an increase of EUR 10 million in relation to last year; the Care Bonus has expanded to EUR 2.4 million, so that 3,000 families can access this aid; the Welcome Card has been expanded, of which at this time it would benefit more than 1,600 Welsh families; and, in addition, at this time, Galicia has 22,316 places of children's schools and we exceed four points the coverage recommended by the European Union. The Galician Union, in addition, along with the sector's entities and associations, is working on the launch of a Welsh Family Policy Plan. This plan meets the fundamental rights that directly affect family life, such as employment, housing, health, education and social protection. This plan includes, among other measures, the creation of a single-parent family register, because at the moment we have no data on how many single-parent families there are in our community, and a system of benefits specific to those single-parent families. It is necessary to continue to strengthen policies aimed at the well-being of families and, above all, those families of special consideration, which we have already spoken about. That is why we are presenting this initiative today, to urge the Council of Galicia to develop a specific aid programme for special consideration families, particularly for single-parent families. We therefore hope to reach agreement with all parliamentary groups, and on a second occasion we will talk about their amendments. We hope we can count on your support. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. By the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u40	Good day to all and all. In fact, you know as single-parent families those where only one parent is responsible for minor or dependent children. As there is no data — the proposal for the initiative is just said — because there are estimates that place around 10% of the percentage of family nuclei under the responsibility of one or more parents, of the total families in which there are minors. It's an estimate, but we'll take it as good. The vast majority of households with only one person are under the responsibility of women; that calculation is that between 85 and 90% of these family nuclei have a woman in front of them; that is, if we turn them around, that at most 15% have a man. So talking about family nuclei with a single adult person at the front is referring to situations where a mother is solely responsible for daughters or children, so from the BNG we think it is more appropriate to talk about monomantal families, which are very diverse between themselves, both in the starting resources, in the vital circumstances, whether they are monomantal by their own decision or by the death of one of the people who had previously been able to form this couple. What is really evidence is that these families are increasingly present in our society and, therefore, we agree that they must be the object of concern and occupation by the German Government. He said that in a vast majority, between 85 and 90 percent, they are monomantial families, and for example, a Save the Children report states that more than half of the children living in this type of family — it is clear that not all monomantial families are in the same economic circumstances, but I will refer mainly to those who are at risk of exclusion and at risk of poverty or already directly immersed in exclusion or poverty — and most of the reports imply that a very important part of these families and children living in these families are where there are the highest rates of poverty, that these homes are those that bear high rates of precaution, that in the whole population of childhood are the double, which are in these families, those who are at this risk, and that in order to deal with all the family responsibilities in this situation, it is very difficult to reconcile family and working life, that 65% of women who are directly concerned with homelessness and that monomantential circumstances, that they claim to have difficulty in reaching the end of month, that they are the most important son-of-of-life, that they are the most family units, the most than the most important type of which are the family, the most important type of these units, the most important. Yesterday, a member of the People's Party was disgusted by the fact that we had qualified his initiative from the BNG as a "stolen" initiative, because it was those who hardly said anything. So the BNG is presenting an amendment to this initiative by the People's Party, because, in principle, this decisive part, because I, after the intervention of the People's Party's Party, did not come to the conclusion that if the plan is being made, if all that is being done by the Union, it is no longer necessary to do anything more or what is, frankly. So, well, I also hope you will accept the amendments that we propose, which go in the direction of what I have just explained now, that this plan will have specific questions, budget and deal with specific issues. That is why the amendment of the BNG calls for a sufficient economic allocation to be established for this programme, which is already reflected in concrete items in the budgets of the Board for this year 2017, to meet accurate proposals in employment, conciliation, social protection, health, education, transport, i.e., in specific matters, not in the philosophy of substance, but in concrete matters. And then, in the second part of the amendment, what we are asking is that the Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to address the Spanish Government to proceed with legislative amendments which are necessary for the consideration of monomantal and single-parent families with two dependent children as a large family for all purposes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u42	It turns out that this issue — already mentioned, Mr President — had to be resolved, because in the State Budget Accompanying Act for the year 2008 there was a question, which was for the Government to carry out the appropriate legal amendments so that single-parent families with two sons or daughters would take account of numerous families. Nine years later, two different political parties in the state government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u44	...it didn't take effect. And that, too, if Law 40/2003 on protection for numerous families has been amended to equate the situation in homes where there is a widow or widow with two children in charge to equate numerous families, we do not understand why this same consideration is not also held with monomantal families, except for an ideological matter. With which, of course, at the BNG we are willing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u45	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u46	...the agreement, but always and whenever it is on specific issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u48	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. They have to excuse me, because the truth is I'm still a little bit affected by the question to today's president, because if, during the Bipartite, the boys and girls emigrated, in the earlier legislation of the People's Party, there was an external mobility that made our youth a mix between Indiana Jones and Willy Fog, and it turns out that now, in this X legislation, it doesn't even exist. It seems that those who are scrubbing dishes in London were lies, that reality that we all know, and those cases that deny the president of all the Greeks and Greeks. [[Applause]] But now we're going to talk about single-parent families, and the first thing that draws attention to reading the People's Party's initiative is urgency, an emergency that is motivated by the need to stand as early as before the Galician Parliament. Of course, one, by reading this, might think there's a new reality. These families have been living in this country for many years. It's nothing new. Or you might also think that the People's Party has just arrived at the Government of Galicia, and it turns out that they have been ruling, that they have ruled this autonomous community for more than thirty years. I don't know if what happens is that for a long time, for many years, they've been on the streets manifesting themselves with Mr. Rouco Varela for a single family model, just like that problem, and they've just noticed now that there's a problem and that, according to the IGE data — because some data is there — these families represent 9.78% of the Greek families and -- it's said here -- 50% of these children are at risk of social exclusion. Of course, a new reality, because when we review the Resource Guide for the Family of the Year 2016 of Galician Union, the measures that are found are those of Mr. Zapatero's evil government, some in tax deductions and other matters relating to Social Security; of the rest, at the autonomous level, practically nothing; or yes, some also concrete, that I have no time to crumble, that were set in motion by another seven-head monster that was the two-party Government of Galician Union. Well, 72.24% of these families — and I repeat, according to IGE data — are women. So another thing that attracts attention in reading your initiative is that it speaks at all times of single-parent families, invisiblying women. And we're going to talk from now on about monomantal families. Because language is important, language is important for visibility, for acceptance and respect, for respect for a type, a type of family that has been stigmatized in this country for many years. Because first women separated and divorced were stigmatized, even making them guilty of this situation, and then they were those who wanted to have sons or daughters without men. That was this century the last stigmatization. And so it's necessary to look at them, name them and make them visible through language. The other thing that draws our attention to your initiative is that, of course, it speaks of a specific program, it says nothing in the initiative, in the text, and you, with all my respect, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, comes up here, does an intervention I don't know if three or four minutes where it explains absolutely nothing of the measures and where this new strategy is going to go forward, this new program, and, of course, we can not sign any blank cheque or vote blindly – – – so say–. That is why we tabled an amendment calling on the Galician Council to bring this plan to the House for its debate and for its subsequent vote and approval to be appropriate. It is also important from our point of view to consider monomantal families with two children as numerous families, who have this consideration and who have all the rights that these families are having right now. We hope that you will accept our amendment, because it is true that the holder of the Galician Board will launch the programme of assistance specific to monomantal families, it will remain precious in the newspapers, and turn this initiative into a social headline initiative, into a social content initiative. That's what the Socialist Group wants today through its amendment. On the other hand, we have just registered an initiative where there are concrete measures for single-parent families -- I don't know if it's funny, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias -- no, no, no -- where there are concrete measures for transport, for tax incentives, for public taxes, for the reduction of public taxes, and also for families that, as we said, have been forgotten for many years and above all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u50	...as women. We want, as I told you, to accept our amendment today, because it's very good to look good, but it has to be. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor for the Tide Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u52	Thank you. Good morning. Indeed, I see that we all agree with the House today in the need to act specifically for this kind of family, for single-parent/monomantal families, which we agree on in the emergency, but it is also curious that, as always, the urgency in the urgent initiatives of the People's Party is motivated by the need for the German Parliament to give its urgent opinion on this matter. Well, it seems like today... we don't sleep at the size of the event today. We believe this needs a deeper debate, this initiative is very general. Obviously, we agree. How can you not agree that a specific help line for families like this is being implemented? But more debate is needed, more concrete measures. That's why we also tabled an amendment. As has already been said here, more and more of the types of family or unit of cohabitation are being normalized and, in fact, more and more of the families called single-parent families are being formed. This is given by two circumstances. First, on a voluntary basis, because, fortunately, having offspring is more a personal decision than a destiny given to women. But also forcefully. Yesterday I would even put Mrs. Pontón as an example here of how macho violence sometimes gives rise to these kinds of dramatic situations that a family is forced to generate in the face of violence. I would like to relate this later to the greatest risk of poverty and social exclusion, which, as has been pointed out here, are suffering from this type of family. The estimates, the data are true that we haven't updated them, but we can say that almost 10% of the German homes, as the Economic and Social Council said in 2014, corresponded to households called single parents. And what does that mean? For in an economically and socially unequal society like Galicia, more and more, because the crisis has only consolidated inequality in Galicia, the income of families falls — we have a figure there: 18% during the crisis — because what it means is that this type of family still has a greater added risk of poverty and social exclusion. First of all, it's well known, because the reconciliation between working and family life for this kind of family is more difficult, not impossible. This, in addition, was aggravated by labour reforms. Yesterday I understood you, Mrs. Prado, that the People's Party was emancipating women because it gave them work. Something like that said, yes, yesterday, in his intervention. Valuable ways of emancipating them, e. g. removing their rights to the choice of day-to-day reduction time with work reforms. I don't think that's the way. On the other hand, the biggest risk, I understood that yesterday. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Besides, he also said that we had a model of women for care, for maternity... besides, with a way to look down on care, when the problem is not that care is a negative value, the problem is that women assume it, when it has to be a social value and must be shared. Often that reality is not chosen either, it is a reality that is imposed, because social protection systems are not broad enough to prevent women from having to devote themselves to that issue. Well, on the other hand, as was said, more than 80% of single-parent families are actually monomantal. And, as we have repeatedly said in this House, women have lower wages, we have higher rates of precariousness, we take over the care of children and children and, therefore, the situation is that the rate of poverty is rising to 40% in these families; they are often families made up of women; 68% of them say that they have a lot of difficulties to reach the end of the month, and what originates here, in our country, not in Venezuela, is that many families of this type are systematically resorting, first, to the family environment, to the family environment often, as they know, to pensions of the lowest in the state, or also systematically, if they do not have that familiar environment, to social dining rooms or to all kinds of solidarity or charity. That's happening. That's why we propose an emergency measure, a specific emergency aid. For what? To act on the feminization of poverty, because single-parent families are actually monomantial, but to act against child poverty and to help single-parent families, and also to act directly against child poverty, is a vital step on a path that we must take to view the socialization of child protection as a fundamental value of our society. And, yes, we agree on specific measures for this type of family does not mean that we do not consider that a general framework is needed, as I said: broad social protection systems, labour measures that consolidate the rights of the working class and do not take them away from them, or, as has been pointed out here, change in the consideration of numerous families. That is why we tabled an amendment for an emergency aid, compatible with other benefits, for single-parent families with income below the minimum inter-professional wage, with a minimum of EUR 100 per minor under the age of 0 to 16 years. We also mean...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u54	— yes, I am finished —...to open certain debates with this amendment, I simply announce them. First, that the minimum income in all this type of aid should be fixed at this minimum interprofessional wage, because, as its own name indicates, it is quite small enough to have to refer to even lower indicators, because the minimum wage itself often does not guarantee a dignified material existence. And nothing else. Helping single-parent families? Yes, but let's put it into practice and don't take any initiatives. I don't know if it's botafumaire, bell tower, parlor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. All the speakers who spoke by each of the parliamentary groups complain that the People's Group initiative does not implement the specific measures of this single-parent aid plan, but, by reviewing its amendments, you, who have had the opportunity to implement these measures, do not in your amendments specify the measures that you consider appropriate that should have this specific plan for single-parent and mono-manent families. The two parliamentary groups — the Socialist Group and the Group of the BNG — seek equalization of the rights and benefits of single-parent and single-marrent families with two children or daughters to numerous families. We agree on that. So we offer a deal with the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Group on this point. As we also agree to extend tax measures to support families or to request the consideration of minors in simple family shelter as members of the family unit for the purposes of recognizing numerous family status. And like these measures, so much more. But if you want to concretely and concretely match many families, we would agree on that. What we do not understand, for example, is the amendment by the Socialist Group, which says that in these 2017 budgets which we are already discussing, that we are at the stage of the amendments to the state of expenditure, that we have the debate in the 3rd Commission, where we have already discussed the transversals, the amendments to the whole of it, is included a concrete part by the Council of Galicia in those 2017 budgets for the end of this programme. I perfectly think this can't be possible. But if we agree with your second point, we could come to an agreement. With regard to the amendment of the Socialist Group, we could also come to a transaction under point 1(a) and point 1 and 2(b). With regard to the Amendment of the Group In Marea, we estimate the most timely measure a line of emergency aid of EUR 100 a month, when we are talking about the budgets and the concrete measures that are being put into effect by the Council of Galicia, such as enlargement of the Bono Care, the Welcome Card, the children's schools, the EUR 123 million earmarked for these 2017 budgets. So we don't share your amendment. We have always spoken, from the very first moment, of the Law of Support to Galicia's family and coexistence, and we know that this law establishes that the family, in all its manifestations and forms of organization, must be the object of protection by the public authorities. I don't know the socialist lady from where she gets the information for her speech, but we're talking about different families or stable groups of people and we're not talking about that kind of family that you're supposed to support the People's Parliamentary Group. On the other hand, we were talking not only about single-parent families, but about numerous families, families with older dependants, families with disabled persons, families with dependents or foster families.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u57	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u58	We therefore hope to reach an agreement with you, especially in point 2 of the amendment to the BNG and in points (a) to 1 and (b) to 1 and 2 of the Socialist Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u59	Thank you very much. Let us turn to the debate on the following non-legislation proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the launch by the Government of Galicia of a platform for the development of the educational programmes of child education, primary, compulsory secondary and bachelor's degree for all teaching centres of the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u60	This motion for a non-law amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled at the initiative of Mr. César Manuel Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u61	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. We are now bringing a non-law proposal which, although it may be considered to affect an extraordinarily sectoral issue such as education and an even more specific issue in this area, such as the development of teaching programming, is at the bottom of a matter which has no responsibility for hundreds of thousands of Galicians and Greeks. Hundreds of thousands because we are obviously talking about teachers — teachers and teachers — both of public and private centres, whether or not they are thousands, but we are also talking about the right to information from families and students; that is, the parents and mothers of students and their own students about what they will be — let us say — educated and subsequently evaluated and examined within the educational field. So — I insist — even though it seems to be an extraordinarily specific matter, it is up to hundreds of thousands of people in this autonomous community. Our non-law proposal essentially or exclusively goes to a system to help with the development of teaching programming in the centers. We all know that the Spanish educational system, in the stages of child education, primary, compulsory secondary education or in the Bachelor's degree and vocational training, is characterized by a very high level of autonomy, autonomy, of course, in the organizational areas of the centres, but also autonomy in the curriculum, which is to which this proposal refers not of law. This curriculum autonomy is intended to be that all centres have to develop educational programming on all the subjects that are taught at the corresponding stage, and therefore we are talking about a work of extraordinary importance, because it means no less than to shape in documents as will all the teaching processes, learning of the schools, and how students will be evaluated, as will the whole activity of each of the teaching departments. The truth is, there is a reality that I think is about to change at state level, and therefore at the autonomous level, which is a permanent change in curricula that follows in educational centers, because we have a very unfortunate instability within what refers to laws that affect the field of education. I say that we are about to arrive at a large state pact that allows us to disappear. What happens when it affects the curricula? So something as simple as an impressive effort that teachers and teachers have to make to develop training, after three years or four, it's no use, because the curriculum is no longer in force. That's the sad reality of our education system. So the teachers' collective ends up assuming, almost as an inevitable burden, having to re-work or develop new programming every few courses, and they also consider that this has a very high administrative component, because it is also a procedure for carrying out the corresponding inspection services. And in addition, in many cases, to ease that work, in itself tedious, it's turned to models designed with all the best will by the book publishing houses but which sometimes do not even fit into the curriculum of our Autonomous Community. So our proposal means, at least, that we ask or urge the Government, through the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order, to put into operation a system that has already been put into operation in vocational training, and it is to make it easier for the entire professor of our educational system to carry out their educational programming through proposals that formulate a platform, a computer system that ultimately gives them a model of programming made. And this must not be confused with a violation, by far, of the pedagogical autonomy of the centers. These proposals, of course, that this platform would automatically launch to teachers would be prepared by both teachers and specialist teachers as well as by the Education Inspectorate and, therefore, we would all have the guarantee that they fit perfectly to what the educational system needs. So those schedules would be correct. The teacher who considered it necessary could make the necessary changes and this would greatly relieve that part of the administrative work you have. And besides, I am also sure that, as I know — and that is not a question of faith — that in the autonomous community we have greatly qualified professors to do this activity and we also have highly qualified inspectors and educational inspectors to do this work, the work that is being done is going to be extraordinarily valid. And in addition, I am also sure that at the moment the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order has sufficiently robust and chequed computer platforms to carry out this work with guarantees of success. We are not saying, because I know that it would be impossible to ask for this work to be done before the end of this course, but if we start this work, because I am sure that it will make an extraordinary benefit for the whole education system and that it can also lead us as an autonomous community to lead — as we put it in our non-law proposal — at the state level this area that is always forgotten and that, possibly by professional deformation — I can admit it — I consider it to be of extraordinary relevance. Finally, and with regard to the amendment of substitution tabled by the People's Party, I have already informed the rest of the groups and also the Presidency of the Bureau that we have reached a compromise to achieve the greatest possible agreement in the House for one aspect — I repeat again, and I am already on the verge of being engaged in that claim that so much insistence is necessity — that we consider to be extremely relevant. The groups are all familiar with the text of the transaction and, therefore, in order to ease the parliamentary debate, here I am finishing my first intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Mr Fernández Gil has the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u64	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mr Álvarez, of course, that transaction and the spirit of agreement — I think we have said it on many occasions — must be what the debate on education presides. The debate on education is precisely a debate that must be chaired, from our point of view, by that search for agreement, that search for meeting points, because at the end we are talking about the future of our society, and in that sense I think we all have to work in the same direction, and I think that we can do so, and we will surely achieve this along the legislation to wake up many issues, hand in hand, to improve our education system and ultimately our future, as I said before. For us, this meeting point between the PSdEG and the new projects and educational plans of the Council in this new legislation is very positive. He mentioned the platform's start-up in vocational training. Moreover, we also fully share that feeling of frustration with which normative changes lead us to, as you have pointed out in your intervention; a feeling of frustration which, in addition, is added not only to normative change, but also to the bad educational results that in many cases have been collected in the last decades, and that I understand that it has to be objective for all to change that trend or reverse that trend, and for that reason the work of that educational pact that has to be done in the House, in the General Courts in this case. What we have of course is that for us in no case can programming see it as a problem or as a job that exceeds the competences of a teacher; I believe that in this we fully agree. A programming must be the roadmap of teaching activity in a given subject or area, but not as a simple standard obligation, but rather as guidelines that are directly related to pedagogical content and that are also directly related to the actual and particular circumstances of each group of students. That is why, regardless of whether it is working to enable tools to facilitate the development, we can never escape this particularity of the specific group of students, which, of course, as you said, with the quality of the teachers we have in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, we are aware that this adaptation to the specific case will always be carried out in the best possible way. The Council is already working on this idea to put in place a project of new tools to support the development of didactic programming in the stages of childhood, primary and secondary. In addition, it must be said — I believe it is fair — that Galicia was a pioneer in the application of new technologies in the educational system and in the implementation of a system, as mentioned earlier, of exchange of teaching units and materials among the teachers of Greece. At the time, the Galician Union was also pioneering in the launching of a platform aimed at the development of educational programs for vocational training, which today is a fundamental part of curriculum planning for these higher education. But it must also be borne in mind that this is a little bit facilitated by the particularity of vocational education, by its high technical content, which somehow makes standard programming very easy. It must also be pointed out — I think it is fair to do so — that the total application of LOMCE allowed Galicia also to be a pioneer in a new structure in didactic programming, a clearer structure, the structure where standards, key competences, attention to diversity were introduced, when only basic competences were previously regulated. So, in this way, the writing of the schedules is much simpler just because of the specific relationship that exists or that marks LOMCE when developing the structure of the didactic programming. Thanks to this, thanks to the advancement of new technologies, the teaching system in Galicia has tools to assist teachers in the planning of their activities, and, in addition, Junta is working precisely to present a project on the line of what we are agreeing on in this non-law proposal: to present a project of tools precisely to facilitate, as we talked about earlier, the development of teaching programming. There is, of course, a question that for us too is crucial and that we must bear in mind — which was also pointed out in its intervention — that we must first and foremost respect with scrupulously zeal the freedom of schools and the autonomy of teachers, and in that sense we must trust very finely so that these kinds of tools always leave — speaking and gathering what we said before: the particularity of each particular group — also a space for this freedom of schools and for that teaching autonomy, which, in addition, is the line in which we walk in countries with better educational results, without deepening on the freedom of schools and the autonomy of teachers. Having said that, for my part, simply thank the Socialist Group for its willingness to engage in dialogue and compromise and for waiting for this climate of consensus or awareness of the need for a pact and a hand-held work in education to be constant in many of the debates we have in this House. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u65	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u66	Good morning. First of all, by the BNG Parliamentary Group, we are going to abstain and I will explain why. On the one hand, we are not going to be the ones who set up tools of work that can in this sense facilitate the work that professional teams have to develop day by day, in this case teaching teams, or that can improve accessibility to all kinds of materials. Why are we abstaining and not going to support him? Because, on the basis also of this question which I now put on the table by the People's Party, I have the impression, in the time we've been here — for months — that this conception of dialogue and understanding that they have from the People's Party always leads to its rule. I was reminded of a conception that launched an author in relation to social inclusion, in this case social integration, which is a street of unique meaning. We must always walk and pass on the side they want, because if there is no dialogue or possible understanding, and in that sense the transaction that they have agreed with the Socialist Party, absolutely legitimate — and I say that we will abstain, we will not vote against— always have to put the point of work that is supposed to be developing the Council, and — in addition to the last line — to be in line with the current curriculum model. I think it is well known that we deserve both the Galician Nationalist Block, so far as LOMCE is concerned because it has not been derogated, and the curriculum model and the educational model that has been established with it, I also believe that it is highly rejected in the streets by the educational community itself. We do not agree — and in that sense we are not going to strongly support the vote in favour of this curriculum model — with that educational model, that educational law, and therefore also the attitude that it has maintained over the last few years, since LOMCE has been put into operation, since it has started to walk and started its application and entry into force and from our point of view was not in line with what the Government of Greece had to do with, which, as you well know, is well known — it is quite well known that the opinion that we deserve from the BNG — does not in fact exercise the competences it has in the field of education for the Junta de Galicia. We have denounced it on many occasions, and I believe that in part that position that often holds the teaching teams is that they see in this excessive bureaucracy in the administrative work that they have to develop in recent years something that does not help them to grasp with courage and with all the professional will that they owe to the elaboration of those teachers' guides, those didactic programmings. We understand that greater resources, especially in material and human terms, would help them to develop their work more efficiently and effectively. We have already said – I reiterate it, and to finish – that we will not put any stick on the wheel so that it will go forward, in addition, whenever such a transaction is approved between the Socialist Party and the People's Party, but we cannot in any way let us also express in the vote the rejection that for our group has the educational law which so far governs, the agreement that can be developed — we also understand that not as we want — of that new education pact, and I say that we are not going to support in this direction either that vision that is taken from the dialogue — straight away — as a street of unique meaning. I believe that there are times when this spirit of agreement should also happen because the proposals are gathered as they are presented, without the need to be made clear and constantly manifest that the Board does things absolutely brilliantly. As you can see, we disagree in that direction. I already say BNG, in this sense, will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u68	Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. The En Marea Group will also abstain, because what seems to be a good initiative in principle, and which could be relevant also to helping coordinate the programmings of each centre, even to work interdisciplinaryly, in principle is not negligible, all the tools that can help our colleagues and fellow teachers, and there we agree with all parliamentary groups: we have extraordinary and extraordinary teachers and teachers who leave their skin every day to make programmings that help our children to learn better. But why do we abstain? There are a number of recommendations from the State School Council and even one that speaks of the recommendations of the European Parliament. These recommendations are binding. Of course, these recommendations have to do with studying children and girls, at which stages, at which levels, and then there is a strategy called Europe 2020, and here we talk about key competences, that is, capacities, we have to have the capacity to go beyond levels. Well, I'm very happy they're students and students, because I'm a teacher and I've been teaching too for many years. What are these competences that are spoken of in Europe? Language skills, skills in mathematics, science, technology, digital skills — all and all of you today manage technologies — learn to learn, social and civic skills, skills in consciences and cultural expressions. These powers, of course, are very important. What do you say or tell me? The dictates, in that Standing Committee of the School Council, that there is a school council and a committee of pedagogical coordination and tutors, the State School Council is from all over Spain, just as there is a Greek School Council. All right. He makes observations and says, well, this whole approach to curriculum and skills, of key skills to be able to promote, they have to do with development, and they must never be exclusive or exhaustive, so that implantation should be done very carefully, it must be done very well. How is it done in Spain? Not like the rest of Europe. In the rest of Europe they decide: we're going to take two or three competencies; of course language, of course mathematics; in other countries mathematics, technology and science; but here nothing, here we take everything, everything and at all levels. The prudence, for we pass it through the lining, and so we go! And we have a LOMCE, which is a slate, and we are convinced that it must be overthrown. So we must try to achieve that balance between knowledge and competition. What are we capable of? What do we know? How do we know? And this has to do with the methodologies, and it has to do with the motivation, and of course it has to do with the key contents, but it has to do with the stages, and here: primary, secondary, bacharelate... all right, there! Substantial change, very important change at the educational level and at the pedagogical level. Of course, teachers and teachers are not only overwhelmed, they are overwhelmed. When you had to do the first programming, it was crazy, because how do you do a programming? People who have been leaving the skin for years and still today don't know how to evaluate students and second-rate students in June. This is urgent, priority and serious. And I agree with the President of the Government: education is vital for the future and for the present of this country and anyone, what happens is that we are not listening. And he also says Bachelard: to make you believe, you have to believe. And I have many doubts, I don't believe we have any wonderful results, the failure in this country is being alarming. We can see the same reality from different perspectives. May it be common to the will to improve our education system, we need it as May water. All right, in those deep reflections that we should do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u70	I always have little time left, I have to learn how to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u71	No, but finish; if you have something very important that you have to say, end it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u72	Well, just say that whatever it is to help the welcome teacher is, and that the Eurydice Plan — and I would like to talk about this myth but there is no time — and the pacts are going to look for the myth of Eurydice not to be fulfilled, even if we listen very well to the recommendations of that Eurydice Report. Yes to the tools, welcome the tools, but we absolutely question the contents, we would have to change the context, and they really value if this software that is being used from vocational training is being useful or we are reaching the end of the course without finishing the programming. On the other hand — and I am finished — there are programs that are running from very good and very valuable training centres, which can be preambular to really do well in the future. Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. With regard to the speeches of the spokespersons of the Nationalist Block Galego and En Marea, I want to tell you that we weren't discussing that, no; we were discussing a tool, a utility, not a curriculum model, whether we like it or not, that's an absolutely different debate. And so I deeply regret his abstention, because what was precisely about this non-law proposition was of course to facilitate the work of the professor but ensuring compliance with the regulations, compliance with the regulations to which they are evidently obliged, like all officials, and that it is true that this curriculum model is going to be a serious problem for them. But I insist: that's not the debate. The debate is whether we provide and guarantee to the entire educational community — not only teachers, but students and their parents — that there is a capacity to provide information, transparency, electronic administration, ultimately, at any time and anywhere in the educational process of their children. That was the only purpose and philosophy of the program. Anyway, you realize that in the agreement that we deal with, if you refer to the current curriculum model, what you're on at any moment, the current or subsequent curriculum model, it's not LOMCE, it's LOE, and therefore you'll have to do a different thing for child education programming. So let's look at the extent to which we are abstinent from the law at every moment. We're talking about something else. And to finish, of course, with regard to the intervention of the spokesperson of the People's Party, which I thank for the transaction, and yes, of course, we are not talking about a closed proposal, but rather about a virtually complete proposal, which must respect the pedagogical autonomy of the centres, and must allow in such areas as sequencing, timing and applying the evaluation criteria that the centre itself appropriates them to its context. That's pedagogical autonomy, of course, yes, of course we agree. And yes, of course, it's true that vocational training curricula have a much more concrete structure than LOE curricula, but I insist that the debate isn't that either. But the LOMCE curricula, which I can't admit either, because it's not so, that it's a particular impregnation of the People's Party, but it's a curriculum model extended in several countries of Europe and the rest of the world, that we like it more or less, but I insist that this is another debate, and that curriculum model does allow us to instrument that platform. By the way, to finish, I know the features of the platforms of vocational training, because from the outset I worked as an education inspector in their development, in the conceptual part, that in the programming part the computers were already in charge. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u75	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the measures to be taken by the Junta de Galicia to avoid the saturations that usually suffer from the emergency services of various hospitals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u76	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u77	Mr. Torrado has the floor to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. I'm going to start with something I'm sure you like my fellow debater always, Mr. Núñez Centeno: the flu is not the fault of the PP. We're starting with something, we're agreeing with something, it's not wrong to start with something we're agreeing with: the flu is not PP's fault. The flu epidemic is not the fault of the PP. It's already two things. You can't deny me that I'm not early on something. In fact, we were facing a flu epidemic nothing exceptional in number, nothing that had happened other times, and besides fruit, as we all know, of the Christmas, of the arrival of the flu. It's not PP's fault. The prediction and management of this epidemic, yes, it's already the responsibility of the health director. So we've already got a bit of a debate there. I like to talk and have a debate about emergencies, because for us the emergency in health is the emergency. I remind you that your last emergency in the Committee on Health was the urgent need for Parliament to position itself on the e-consultation, which has been taking a long time. That was the emergency. They did not think that hospital emergencies were important, but that the urgency was to place Parliament on a subject that had long been taking place. We, if we bring it, consider it relevant. There's an emergency emergency situation, and it's an emergency problem, but it's not a hospital emergency problem, it's the peak of the iceberg of a delicate situation in hospitals in Galicia. And it's a reflection of the situation that we have: staff deficit, resource deficit, bed problems, which leads to these enormous saturations in hospital emergencies. Why? Because patients arrive — all we know — usually older people, some of them need hospitalization. As I say, no exception in numbers, hospitalization rates are variable, now less at the end of the month; they could be about 20% or less — usually 20% —. But they can't access beds and hospital income even for more than twelve hours, more than twenty-four hours, and they have to be engulfed -- they didn't mean fattened, because it's a little hard -- in the corridors of hospitals, because there are no beds where you enter them, and because they have to wait because there's not enough staff to attend. So we have a serious health problem. I think there were several statements saying that there were no such saturations and that there were no such problems. Well, I've picked up some news from the media -- if the media know it, I suppose they should always know about it by the leaders of Welsh health. As of December 30th, there was some news — one little boy in Ribeira — announcing that the forecast is that from next week we can talk about an important income boost. In Montecelo the beds of the hospitals were in the corridors — those that were said not to exist —; in the Coruña Hospital: beds in the corridors, sick in the corridors during the night — they were said not to exist —. I could continue to recite all Galician hospitals during the time we had, but I think everyone who went through a hospital knows on that day that there was this problem and everyone — including specialists or first specialists — knew that this situation was going to happen. The Urans of Ourense Hospital -- Orense again -- which we already know was a pioneer because it started with this in November; the CHUS, where pediatric emergencies also had some problems; the percentage of hospital income in the CHUS, for example, was less than the average of a similar situation in other similar situations, in other equal years, and yet collapsing. As we announced yesterday — and as we have been saying — the situation of Greek health is a ship that is already collapsing as the sea is calm, as soon as we put a peak of flu... However, the manager of the CHUS said that there was no problem — photos with beds in the corridors. In short, there's an aid reality that seems not to be assumed by the health management in Galicia. In this case, what we are proposing is an initiative that we believe needs to be constructive, because this is a problem that affects every year, because January exists every year and flu epidemics have them every year. We are aware that it is important to let go of the partisan debate for a moment and make a constructive proposal, not forgetting that there are differences in management. So what we're proposing in our initiative is asking for reports, asking for information on what happened; reports on what were the plans, what was the level of forecasting of the situation, which was where emergency services were provided. In those reports, what we want to know is that if there was a forecast that there would be more personal -- it would be natural -- that there was a reprogramming of already scheduled operations that can wait one day or a week to let the beds go free; it would not be conceivable that we had kept the level of scheduled operations that would in turn occupy a certain number of beds that could actually wait a week to enable beds for those who arrived; open closed plants, open closed beds in the Chou o no Salnès, Gil Casares; reinforce the service of pneumoology, which is important in the case of emergencies, as important as the trauma service will normally be strengthened, because there is a problem associated with that service, because in the case of a forecast of an influenza epidemic there should be a reinforcement of the pneumology service. We, when the Health Council says it was perfectly prepared, we want the reports, we want that data, we want to know whether this has been fulfilled or not. We want to know if you've strengthened primary care, because if we have strong primary care, what we're doing is we're freeing hospitals from burden. And so we understand that a forecast of a peak of emergencies, a forecast of an epidemic like this, what should be done is to strengthen primary care services, to replace those professionals who are not at Christmas — which is true that it is a time when there are lower holidays or more days asked for —. In short, don't say this was planned. What we want is the reports that give us indicators that it was actually planned and the reports that give us indicators of what the result was, because what was true was that it was predictable. So predictable was the peak of the flu that we recorded this initiative on January 3-4 because we were looking forward to how they worked and how hospital emergencies responded. We'd like not to have to bring this about because it worked well, but we were pending, we knew that this situation could happen if there was no good forecast. It's true that there have been no official explanations in any case, that the directors of the Council have disappeared. But we thought it was his duty to give those explanations and, as they were not obtained, we asked for those data. We want valuation reports, if the media have been sufficient, if it has been considered to have been answered correctly, if there is a forecast for next time to modify these contingency plans. Because this is a repeated situation. As I said, in the Chou was given in November; in the hospital of Santiago the valet of the people had to ask for reports about the situation last November; in Montecelo there is constant this situation of difficulty, year after year it is given. We're asking for that information. And of course, in our proposal, we call for more personnel to be incorporated into emergency services. We run the risk -- it's not the first time I'm alert about this -- of having a wonderful health staff, who are leaving an undeniable and unattainable effort to do their job, and of not being able to give more, that they have a problem of professional burning, that they come a moment when their quality of service is low because they're not able to render all of what is required of them, because they're making an effort unattainable, they're lengthening the days beyond what they touch them, and they're doing a job far beyond what they should, because they're unable to leave a service if they see that they're going to leave a very big problem to the remaining partners and to the sick they are. So what we're thinking is that these complaints are being dealt with, that these complaints from professionals and the complaints from patients are being handled, and that one should take into account that there is a need to have contingency plans, that there is a need to predict situations. Because I insist on predictability: January exists every year and flu peaks every year. And we check this time that the measures came late; some people from health professionals were added after the flu peak; and after the flu peak was rated: what good were the measurements! Of course, if we add staff in the week that there are no longer so many hospital attendances, double merit, but we're not solving the first week problem or the serious incidence of influenza. So what we're thinking is that there's forecast and if we're informed, we're asking for information to be able to evaluate correctly. And if we insist: we would like to have attended some explanations — as has happened in many other places, because they like to talk about other places — of the counselor, because it's true — and I already said so —. I hope the counselor hadn't been waiting for attention from the flu, I think it's okay, but for a moment I thought he was affected by the flu and he was trapped in a hospital and couldn't explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u79	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u80	Well, then we're going on with emergencies and flu peaks. It is clear that the saturation and actual collapses of the emergency services that have once again lived in practice all of the Greek hospitals point to the drains of the health system, the structural problems of the health system, the emergency services themselves, the rest of the hospitals' services and primary care; structural problems due to the policy of cutting and encouragement of privatization carried out by the People's Party: lack of resources, lack of staff, not taking advantage of all the resources that Sergas has and lack of planning. With budget cuts, since 2009, an average of 300 and a little million less each year, if we multiply it by eight budgets, because we are in many hundreds of millions of euros less invested in public health in Galicia. Staff reduction. Since 2009 more than 2,000 professionals less in public health in Galicia. With which, as well as the fires go out in the winter, because the problems of hospital emergency services also need planning, in this case in the summer, to minimize the results of these collapses. I think we've all seen the situation of emergency services, which become news on a recurring basis. We see hospital centers living in real chaos situations: patients suffering from unacceptable hours in order to be able to be cared for — rooms, boxes, paddles, totally insufficient chairs, paddles in the corridors with patients, in chairs in the corridors, standing people, patients waiting for income — and professionals developing their activity in conditions of emergency overload and stress from then on unacceptable. We agree with the need for action and we agree with the initiative put forward by the Socialist Party, but we tabled an amendment because, as I said before, it is predictable this type of peak, this type of repute of the assistance demand, and it is necessary for that to take action. And the first is that we present a first point of the amendment, which is the development of an action protocol for outbreaks or peaks. How do you do that? In consultation with the emergency service professionals, the rest of the hospital services and with primary care, and with union representatives, where the provision of reinforcements, resources, priorityization in care, hospitalization -- that is, if you've planned how you're going to act, that if you've planned how many people, how many people, how many professionals will need to be strengthened, and not remove professionals from the services to send them to emergency, and not hire professionals for certain hours or certain days in particular during that care pressure, as you are doing. What is needed from the BNG point of view? For the necessary measures are taken to ensure that the hospital units are open and functioning with all the resources available to them. And it is not being done, despite initiatives adopted in this Parliament. Which immediately opens the plants and beds closed and locked in the hospitals of Galician public network. Because at this point, beds remain closed in the Greek hospitals, for example in the Mexoeiro; beds closed in all hospitals. It is possible and desirable to have predicted and have all devices in full performance. And what's necessary? So size the templates with a number of professionals needed to deliver a good service and a good quality of care. It's obvious that the flu peaks are not planned at 100 percent, but what is planned is to have everything planned for when these peaks occur. And especially what it can't be is: primary care, saturated; waiting lists in primary care for days, even weeks, with which patients who don't have primary care go directly to hospital centers; or collapsing directly also in primary care CAPs. With which it is necessary to have the resources working, it is necessary to have sufficient staff, it is necessary to have sufficient budget so that these types of situations are not systematically given. The People's Party, of course, so ineffective and continuously allowing this situation of collapse cannot be chance, but it is the result of this strategy of deterioration of public health to push more and more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u82	...patients to private health care. With which, I support this initiative, and I hope that the proposal will accept the amendments that we have tabled since the BNG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u84	Thank you, President. So we resumed the debate that we started yesterday about the emergency situation in our country, and we moved yesterday as well as yesterday that when emergency services become chronically saturated, more and more frequently, the problem or problems are not only in emergency services, but in the whole health system. That's why, understanding the need for increased personnel, we propose precisely that amendment, so that the increase is not confined only to professionals in emergencies, but to staff in general. We moved it yesterday. We manage data from the Ministry that say that the staff reduction has been around 1,800 public health professionals since the People's Party was ruled — one hair minus 1,700 and something long — and of these, more than 1,100, that is, more than 60 percent have been eliminated in primary care or the squares have been amortized — they call them as they want. That reduction of professionals, obviously, causes delays and causes, besides, as we moved yesterday, you wait, you wait for primary care appointments for a week or more than a week in some health centers. That means there are people who can't wait to be cared for and, therefore, that makes the emergency situation worse. The CAP — the continuing points of attention — also has insufficient staff and chronically denounces in some centres the lack of staff to cover even the emergencies they care at their own center and the emergencies they have to leave on healthcare vehicles. And hospital units have also lost staff, and practically all health areas keep throughout the year beds or closed units. You look at how a few years ago in this House we discussed or denounced the closings of beds that were made during the summer and now we're talking about having to report them all year round, because they're kept. Thus, the cuts are consolidated, this is a very clear example. Just a few years ago we were here discussing the summer closures, now we have to be discussing the closures that are taking place throughout the year. That is an example of how precisely the crisis was a scam and how it served to eliminate or reduce and cut down some of the public services and, therefore, cut social rights. Having good health care should not only be obvious, but rather a priority for any government concerned about their people. And that seems not to be the case when the major is denied, as happened in yesterday's debate, and when it is moved that there is no such problem and that the templates are suitable, when the same day they mobilize or manifest themselves professional as in the case of Vigo, denouncing the unbearable situation of hospital emergencies, that there are not enough personnel, that there are not enough materials, that there are not enough beds. And yes, in the new hospital, in which it was the best hospital in Europe for Mr. Feijóo, there are not enough beds, and it turns out that these magnificent individual rooms have to be unopened, i.e., we have to put more beds inside the same rooms because it's not enough space, and yet we keep three closed wings in the entire Mexoneiro Hospital. It's indecent, honestly. Accumulate them of people waiting for a bed to be entered and yet we keep whole beds or units closed in the centers. It's the destruction of public health, it's its deterioration, which is done, precisely when the new hospital was made to have also 30% less beds to ensure that it continued this fruitful business of the Povisa company. And yet when they decide, when they're already in the press, because there are protests, because many people accumulate waiting for bed, opening up some of these units, they do it with insufficient staff. It's indecent how health professionals treat them. Before, Vigo's emergencies, we had two, and he moved to a single door, which might be okay, but it turns out they collapsed before when there were about 500 entries in the two centers, now in one center they collapsed when there were 350. Is it or is it not a scam? Or the case of Ourense, who had to force the doors, remove the beds from the new area that he was about to inaugurate and move them back to the old zone to put four beds in the rooms, because they were insufficient the services they had, when there are other services that continue to close because you refuse to open them. And, obviously, Mr Torrado, of course — I have finished — that we also agree with the request for information, and to see if you are more fortunate, because I have been here for four years claiming information on non-structural waiting lists, and being honourable Member continues to deny us that information; you see the elasticity of this democracy. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Beds in corridors, saturated emergency services, delays to be attended and to get appointments. The flu virus is making yours these days in Galicia. He caused damage in the city of Olivia, because the nearly 700 sick people who approached the emergency services yesterday had to wait up to eight hours to be cared for. The voice of Galicia. The increase in patients with saturated influenza in the Santiago Clinic and General-Calde of Lugo. The CHUS management clarified that there is no staff problem, there is a slower incorporation to the plant — they acknowledged —. For its part, the managing director of Lugo General-Calde Hospital admitted that the emergency service has an important influence. He added that this is a regular service situation and ruled out that there is a lack of professionals. The Gallego post. The Mexeiro derives patients and the sick wait up to nine hours to be cared for. Eight days waiting for a bed in Pontevedra. Night income doubled in Ourense. Faero de Vigo News, Mr. Torrado, I can read news too. Some of these news reports are right that they might be read today, but it's just that we're not in 2017, we're not at the moment of personnel cuts, lack of beds, demolition of public health, at the time of deteriorating health, as Mrs. Solla said yesterday and today repeated, we're in 2007 and 2008. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of emergencies because of the peaks of the flu has long since come, when there was no crisis, when there were no cuts, in the years of kindness and investment, in which he ruled, Mr. Torrado, the Socialist Party, along with the Block. We, of course, are not going to deny the problem; the problem exists, you're right. We didn't do as Touriño did, who denied the crisis in the emergency service, because he said there was only difficulties. We assumed it and tried to manage it, and managed it without blaming anyone. We didn't do what you were doing when Mrs Rubio was ruling; the health counsellor said that the popular people wanted to discredit public health when they were talking about these issues, or he was also talking about the false alarm promoted by health professionals in the media. Yes, Mr. Torrado, this is in the hemerothecas, and it is news from El País — a newspaper that goes entirely for the People's Group —: PSOE and BNG deny that there is a collapse in emergencies. Well, they talked about a Japanese strike, they talked about a lot of things they'd better not repeat. But, besides, it's not an exclusive problem of Galicia or the policies of Feijóo. News from La Sexta TV: The flu epidemic saturates hospital emergencies. Asturias is one of the most affected communities by the flu. In the Basque Country, the hospital of Galdakao is saturated with emergencies, with twenty beds in the corridors. In Catalonia, hospitals like Viladecans have been saturated days, according to professionals, the Vall d'Hebron. Communities all governed by the PP, gentlemen. Of course, Mr. Torrado, you're right: it's not the PP's fault or the PP's government, nor is it the PP's cuts. It is exactly the same in Europe. In the United Kingdom forty-eight ambulances were diverted, they weren't allowed in, because hospitals were saturated. In France there's saturation of hospitals. We will take this matter seriously, Your Honor. The problem is not solved, as you ask, by requiring managers to report. Let's not blame the management teams now, let's not blame the professionals again. I'm sure they've been working around since the flu wave started, because their goal is to get better hospital care. And I'm telling him because I know what I'm talking about, because I myself was the medical assistant director of the Ourense Hospital and the problem of emergency saturation in the flu peaks, so we had it in 2003, in 2004, and there were no cuts, gentlemen. The problem is very complex and it's affected by many factors that in five minutes it doesn't give me time to explain. But there's a lot of studies, as you'll know, about emergency saturation. The increase in the demand for care here in Galicia and the increase in the need for income if it was predicted by Sergas, and contingency plans exist and progress annually and become in contact with professionals. The managers have planned the performances, Mrs Prado, they don't act at random, both professionals and managers. New spaces are used, infection prevention measures are developed, hospital beds are opened and re-assigned with the reinforcement of the medical wardens, hospitals are renewed by the day. Regarding last year, the figures are similar. We're not going to have enough on the flu anymore. It was similar and less virulent, as experts say, because there was a lower percentage of ICU income, although there was 15% higher income. Health believes that the peak of the flu has already passed and that the emergency staff — we speak yesterday enough in this House — are perfectly dimensioned. I repeat again: the emergency problem, the emergency saturation, is not due to personnel cuts, it is not due to PP cuts. And to finish by thanking, of course, the People's Group for the work of public employees, so many times disengaged, that, as always, in times of difficulty, they are able to give or we are able to give the best of ourselves by patients and by the organization. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. President of the Union, yesterday: "The Galician Parliament speaks of Galicia". Do a bit of a case for him, don't you? I spoke of Galicia, you spoke of another place. Anyway, yes, yes, yes, yes, that contextualizes, it's true, yes, yes, yes, yes, we have to talk about Galicia sometimes and sometimes not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't get nervous, I'm not saying anything bad yet. There are no beds available — I said — but how will there be beds available?, how will there be? June 7th, Almuínña says beds matter in hotels and not so much in hospitals. Sure, how will there be available beds if you care about hotels? Asturias — it's so predictable that I already had it — the councilman in Asturias, the daily press round to report the flu, the daily press round. First measure: Health incorporates all available doctors to cope with the worst flu in years. Asturias, all available doctors, didn't even have a doctor to hire. All incoming patients. The most serious epidemic in eight years, the worst flu epidemic in Spain, all doctors hired, daily explanations. I don't think the comparison is favorable to you. Of course, those are the differences — if, please, let me finish. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sure, what can I do, then, when I compare the differences? Well, I have to come here and ask the councillor to be removed for ineptitude and incapacity, that's what I have to do. Well, man, no... Mr. President... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u89	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u90	Yes, yes. Do you think it's too bad to tell him? Nothing, don't worry, Mr. President, I'm sure you'll take care of it now. Look, do you know what the difference is? That in the case of the Bipartite I didn't ask for your dismissal, these are not my words, these are words from your health spokesman in 2008: ineptitude and incapacity, request for the resignation of the Health Counsellor. Those are the differences. [[Applause]] My first sentence was, "The flu is not the fault of the PP." I share it with you, this is a structural problem that we must solve. I don't ask for resignation. But you are now very upset by a few words that I say, but they're not mine, they're from your health spokesman in 2008. If you have to reprimand me in this Parliament now for calling someone inept, I really think the Bureau should rebuke itself. Ineptitude and disability, those are the differences. I insist, counsellor giving explanations every day in Asturias. The PP has blamed him for his lack of foresight. Of course, but the indexes were much smaller, the expected were much smaller, it's in your data. Of course, it's that sometimes comparisons have that problem. I'm not going to ask the councillor to resign. I think the counselor didn't do his job well, but I don't think he's worthy to call him incapacitated and inept, as he did. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? I thought he was saying something to me. If it happened. I won't call him, but it happened to a counselor. It's just that differences are not only when it's governed, but also when it's in the opposition. And we believe that we guarantee much more elegance in the opposition. In any case, on the amendments, following the amendment by the En Marea Group, we could request, in any case, the extension of the demand for more staff for the entire health system. I'm just going to mention absences. In addition, in the hope that they will be able to vote in favour of me, that this proposal will be voted in favour of this group, it is equally possible to leave it in an emergency, such as yesterday's Chou initiative, which focused only on emergencies. We share the point of reference to the protocol — very interesting — which I proposed to the BNG, and we nevertheless propose — with the hope that, after the debate, we will receive an affirmative vote — the vote by points. I know that the part of increasing staff can raise any debate on whether it is necessary or not. So, even to make it easier for them not to have to vote in favour of that part, where I know we have a deep discrepancy, but in order to try to ask for reports... how are we not going to ask for reports, if reports are to receive data and evaluate? We're going up here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u92	...not asking for a removal, not calling it inept to anyone, we've come to ask for data to assess. If no data are requested to evaluate, how can it be evaluated? It's the only thing we asked for: data, information...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u93	Thank you, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u94	...and add the protocol part. If we can, I would like to incorporate, as a third point of the proposal, the part of the BNG amendment on the protocol and therefore vote on the three points separately. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u95	Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. We therefore proceed to the vote. We begin with the vote of the Non-Legal Proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia on the initiative of Mr César Manuel Fernández... Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The motion goes after. Everything was planned. We shall first vote for the Galician People's Group on the initiative of Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and four other Members. There seems to be a transaction. If it's possible and it's short, because if it's not... can you read the transaction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u96	Thank you, President. We have reached a compromise on the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which says: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to approve, during the first half of 2017, the rule governing the recruitment regime of staff labour investigators from the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, incorporating it into the corresponding economic memory."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u97	Thank you. We therefore vote in favour of this transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. César Manuel Fernández Gil and four other Members, on the approval by the Government of Galicia of the rule governing the recruitment regime of the staff labour investigator of the Public Service of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u98	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, to whom no amendments have been tabled. We vote. Voting of the non-legislative proposal of the G.P of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for information on the real cost to the public era of the decision to sell Novagalicia Banco in advance, as well as the publication of the documents that underpinned that agreement. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u99	We are now voting for the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández. Amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialists were accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the development by the Galician Board of Directors of the National Strategic Plan for the Treatment of Hepatitis C, including the training of professionals, information campaigns and the plan of preceptive writing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u100	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members. It seems that the Socialist Party has asked to vote for points, something that accepts the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. So, first of all, we are voting on the first point. We vote. Voting of the first point of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the appeal before the Constitutional Court for refusal of admission by the Bureau of the Congress of Members of the proposed Organic Law Transfer of the title and powers of AP-9 to Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This first point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u101	Let us now vote on the second point of this non-law proposal. We vote. Vote for the second point of the Proposal, not G.P. law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the appeal before the Constitutional Court for refusal of admission by the Bureau of the Congress of Members of the proposed Organic Law Transfer of the title and powers of AP-9 to Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u102	We voted on the third point of this proposal... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But we vote it, we have to vote it, it's three points. We vote. Voting the third point of the Proposal, not the law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the appeal before the Constitutional Court for refusal of admission by the Bureau of the Congress of Members of the proposed Organic Law Transfer of the title and powers of AP-9 to Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this third point is also rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u103	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Luis Villares Naveira and Mr Antón Sánchez García. There's an amendment of its own which, of course, has been accepted by its own... It could not be otherwise, but the regulation will contain it and we therefore vote for it with the amendment incorporated. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira and D. Antón Sánchez García, on the impetus for the Galician Union to comply with the judgment of 21 December 2016 of the European Union Court of Justice in relation to mortgage contracts with ground clauses. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u104	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and seven other Members. It seems that a transaction has been agreed and that In Marea does not accept this transaction. So, therefore, we vote with the... in Tide I have collected that I do not accept the transaction... They didn't accept, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In Marea he doesn't accept... It does not accept the amendment, it does not accept the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We therefore vote with the incorporated transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga and seven other Members, on the impetus for the Galician Union to develop and approve a programme of assistance specific to single-parent families. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 62; abstentions, 12. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u105	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Mr Da María Concepción Burgo López, There's an accepted transaction. Do you want to read it? Yes, read it, if you like. It's short. It's short, we can read it. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u106	Okay. I read it, although it has been distributed to all groups, both to the presidency and to the Bureau. In any case, the transaction says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to expand to the stages of compulsory, primary and secondary education and gradarelate the line undertaken by the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering in Vocational Training, and to put into operation, as soon as possible, a set of computer tools and tools that enable the development of teaching programming according to the current curriculum model." Read it slowly...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u107	No, thank you very much. You're perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u109	We therefore vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María Concepción Burgo López, on the launch by the Government of Galicia of a platform for the development of the educational programmes of child education, primary and secondary compulsory and bacharelate, for all teaching centres of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u110	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and Mr Noela Blanco Rodríguez. Accepts the amendments of the two groups and has asked for a point vote. I have this here, I don't know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you say you accept the vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u111	We accept the first point in the amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block. We incorporated it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u112	Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u113	Then there would be three points. The two of us present in the proposal, and, as a third point, the first amendment to the Nationalist Block of Galicia. And yes, we ask for a point vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u114	And with all this incorporated, we do the voting by points. Let us vote, firstly, on the first point of this non-law proposal. We vote. Voting of the first point of the transactional text of the Proposal is not G.P. law. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the measures to be taken by the Junta de Galicia to avoid the saturations that usually suffer from the emergency services of various hospitals. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u115	We now vote on the second point of the non-law proposal. We vote. Vote for the second point of the Proposal, not G.P. law. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the measures to be taken by the Junta de Galicia to avoid the saturations that usually suffer from the emergency services of various hospitals. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u116	We have pending, as we have commented, the vote of the... [[Murmurs.]] Excuse me...? Oh, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, we have to vote on that third point, exactly. We voted on the third point of this non-law proposal. Voting the third point of the Proposal, not the law of the G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the measures to be taken by the Junta de Galicia to avoid the saturations that usually suffer from the emergency services of various hospitals. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. That point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u117	And now we voted on the motion we had pending, which were pending a transaction agreement. You'll tell me if that deal makes it happen or you'll read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u118	It seems to me that the first thing to do is to thank all of us for reaching agreement on such an important issue as the fight against gender-based violence. I don't know if it's more practical than reading it, even if it can be moved, because I also think it would be good for us to know -- even if it's a bit extensive -- that's what we're voting on and what the content of this agreement is. It's just a few minutes, I don't think it's going to be a great loss from the point of view of our lives and the fate of this country. "The Galician Parliament agrees to set up a presentation within the non-permanent study committee for equality and women's rights, with the aim of: 1.- Promote a German pact against gender-based violence, which at least includes the following measures. (a)The increase in economic resources for the prevention and assistance of victims of gender-based violence and their children. (b)The study of the modification of the Galician Law for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender violence, to include in it the concept of feminicide. (c)The improvement of the means and resources of justice specified in the provision of resources necessary to improve judicial means of violence against women; the guarantee of the existence, within the framework of the means available in each building, of mechanisms of separation between victims and aggressors in the Greek courts. (d)In the guarantee of specialized training in gender violence of all personnel involved in the judicial process, including forensic doctors and doctors and psychosocial equipment. In applying a forensic risk assessment protocol for cases of gender-based violence in forensic assessment units. (e)The development during 2017 of the co-education measures provided for in the I Plan of Action for Equality in Galicia's educational centres. Intensify measures to prevent gender-based violence with the following actions: it is periodically launched of information and awareness-raising campaigns directed at the general population, and specific to youth, aimed at changing gender-based stereotypes that affect social rejection of all forms of gender-based violence and at informing the media and resources of women who find themselves in situations of gender-based violence. The campaigns will have special dissemination in the media of public ownership, schools, education, social, health, work, cultural and sports. And apply Article 15 of Law 11/2017 on the formation of all professional persons. The application of article 25 of the Galician Law for the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence, which considers psychological care as a primary care service. And in relation to psychological care programs, to promote the legal changes needed to ensure that women in situations of gender violence do not have to inform the other parent of the decision that the minor initiates psychological treatment, in order to address the psychological impact suffered by witnessing gender violence, and the expansion of psychological care to younger men with behavioral problems. (g)The development, in collaboration with Fegamp and the municipalities, of protocols for prevention and attention to situations of male violence in those local entities that do not have the same or need to be updated by qualified personnel. The promotion of independent external evaluation by the Galego Observatory of Gender Violence, the fulfilment of the impact on Galicia of the Galician law and the state law against gender violence, as well as the measures necessary to improve the effectiveness of public policies to end gender violence, which will be referred to the Galician Parliament. And the promotion, in both public and private media, of the fulfilment of the principles set out in the Compostela declaration, seeking the responsibility and involvement of the social media in the fight against male violence, avoiding the disease and sensationalism in the informational treatment of male violence. (k)The establishment of measures to prevent secondary victimization of women in situations of gender-based violence, and the articulation of measures that safeguard their privacy in accessing the different resources and services that make available to different public administrations. And a second point within this motion is the drawing up of a consensus paper from all the political groups represented in the House, with the aim of bringing a unique and joint position to the meeting of the General Commission of Autonomous Communities of the Senate which has agreed to convene at the Conference of Presidents, in order to incorporate Galician approaches to the work of the state pact against gender violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u119	It was worth a while. I think it's a good deal, we're gonna vote for it. Voting of the compromised text of the G.P. motion of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the policy of the German Government in relation to gender violence in minors. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. [[Applause]] The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted. Institutional declarations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u120	After the vote, I shall now read two institutional statements. Institutional statement in memory of the victims of the Holocaust
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u121	The first is about the annual commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust. I'll read it. "On November 1, 2005, the United Nations General Assembly, at its 42th plenary meeting, reaffirms that the Holocaust, which resulted in one third of the Jewish people and countless members of other minorities being killed, will always be a warning to the whole world of the dangers of hatred, fanaticism, racism and prejudice. And he also decided to designate January 27 as the International Day of Annual Commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust, all of them victims of Nazism, among whom are also Greek and Greek. The General Assembly rejected — and this Parliament does its own thing — any denial, whether partial or total, of the Holocaust as a historical fact, and condemned without reservation — and condemned — that this Parliament also does its own — all manifestations of religious intolerance, incitement, harassment or violence against people or communities based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs, take place wherever they take place. The Galician Parliament notes with the United Nations General Assembly that the ignorance and disregard of human rights give rise to acts of abhorrent barbarism for human consciousness. The Galician Parliament, one more year, and in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Declaration of 1 November 2005 of the 42nd General Assembly of the United Nations, calls upon the Government of the United Nations to work everywhere against possible outbreaks of racism, xenophobia and discrimination based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs, and citizens and their organizations to remain vigilant so that no more such regime as the Holocaust has produced can neither settle between us nor anywhere in the world." [[Approved by consent.]] Institutional declaration for the school day of non-violence and peace
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u122	And now I'm reading another institutional statement for the school day of non-violence and peace. 62 years ago, on January 30, 1948, Mahatma Gandhi was killed, an tireless fighter for equality and justice. His work for peace in the world has been remembered every 30 January since 1964, until UNESCO finally recognized the date in 1993 to commemorate the school day of non-violence and peace. A day when it claims the importance of school to promote coexistence, peace and equality, as well as the elimination of all forms of violence in the educational field, such as school harassment, discrimination or segregation, masculine or non-integration, immediate challenges to which public authorities must respond. As the UN draws up in the declaration and action programme on the culture of peace, adopted by the General Assembly on 6 October 1999, peace is not only the absence of conflicts, but it also requires a positive, dynamic and participatory process in which dialogue is promoted and conflicts are resolved in a spirit of mutual understanding and cooperation. The Galician Parliament reiterates its commitment to the previous UN and UNESCO principles, especially with regard to the need for peace education, recalling that just as wars are born in people's minds, it is in the minds of women and men of the morning in which we must build the bulwarks of peace; so working in schools for peace and equality will be the best way to guarantee a better future for all citizens. Thus, the Galician Parliament commits itself, and calls upon the whole of society and institutions, to work everywhere against all forms of violence, putting special emphasis on what happens at school, such as the so-called bullying or cyber-racous or any other form of violence that affects children and children, working in this way, hand in hand, to promote education and culture of peace between children and youth." [[Approved by consent.]] Thank you very much. And now we're going to debate the interpellations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u123	As we have already commented, there were some changes in the order of the day of the interrogations. Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to the execution of the high-speed railway line in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u124	Mr. Losada has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor. We just saw the reading of two institutional statements about memory and history. Yesterday there was also a fact that has to make us reflect; a birthday about these facts. And the railway is also historical memory, as you well know. Yesterday, it was celebrated, not that we lived the memory, but that 40 years ago, fascist gunmen killed nine people in the city of Madrid, and as you said yesterday, the only survivor at this time, Mr. Ruíz Huerta: so that the memory of Atocha and the memory of the struggle for freedom, democracy and socialism will remain forever in this country. I think it's convenient for us to know and know the story. [[Applause]] Yesterday, the Senate also voted a non-legislative proposal from the Socialist Party that asked for something quite reasonable, which was that a law that is in force had budgetary allocation. There's nothing more petty than not having the political courage to derogate a law and kill it and drown it budgetarily. The Law of Historical Memory takes seven years with zero euros in budgets approved by the Government of Spain. I hope that this new situation of dialogue in some cases — on the part of some prisoners — leads to the resurrection of a law that must never, ever, have died in the House, in the Congress of Spanish Members. [[Applause]] The railway, indeed, is also history. In Galicia is history of lost times. The first line was built twenty-five years after the first line in Spain. Galicia was connected to the rest of the state network thirty-five years after the construction began in the Spanish ensemble, in 1883, the line A Coruña-Madrid. In the case of the city of Vigo, he connected to the Spanish network only a year before the Portuguese network, at a time when the Spanish-Portuguese relations went through a period of time, let's say, back on the back, away. I believe that it shows quite well what is the territorial articulation strategy of the Spanish State in terms of channels of communication at that time, and that unfortunately in that area, and in political areas, we are now suffering in this country. And we've reached the second generation, the generation of high rail speed. We remember — and I want to do so too — because it is exactly how it happened — that the Spanish high-speed rail network, the first design and the first budgetary commitments, developed in 2001, when the People's Party ruled. And it is also true that the Galician Plan of 2003, for reasons of environmental and social costs, introduces a certain acceleration in those plans; it is true that with major deficits, Counsellor. I'm sure you remember a project by Minister Álvarez Helmets that contemplated a single line frame -- in most of the stretch between Ourense and Olmedo -- with a maximum speed of 200 kilometers per hour, which was an important step in relation to the existing one, but it wasn't high rail speed. Indeed, in 2004 Mr Rodríguez Zapatero arrived at the Government of Spain, and from that moment on we all remember — since 2005, in which I am a Member — the popular party's demand for an acceleration almost miraculous of the high-speed railway works in Galicia. I recall it in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. I recall in 2009 the signing of the Obradoiro covenant between the Minister of Development — Mr José Blanco — and the President of the Government of the Union — Mr Núñez Feijóo —. It was July 2009, and it was an essential fact for the economic and social development of this autonomous community. This situation, Counsellor — I am sure you are fully aware, inasmuch as it is also the function of the Galician Council in the field of transport or infrastructure — changes in a miraculous way in 2011. With the arrival of the Rajoy Government to the Government of Spain, Mr. Feijóo suffers a theological transmutation based on faith and hope, I don't know whether it is also in charity, and what up until that time were claims and systematic disbelief about actions, about budgets, about budget executions, about physical works that were being developed in the mountains of the Ourense interior, become a bathing sensation of placidity. I am sure that in the privacy — exactly like the Catalan of Aznar — Mrs. Minister Ana Pastor claimed, but, of course, those claims did not go out in the public sphere as President of the Council of Galicia. In 2016, with the new Government and with the new minister – Mr. Íñigo de la Serna – there is no doubt that something is being spoken at that time — in the opinion of the Socialist Group — Mrs. Ana Pastor had clearly hidden herself in a political strategy I dare say that by mistake. I don't know if it has to be a political deception, in the end... I'm already leaving it to the president, but, in any case, a situation, in our opinion, by mistake. And I'm wrong because during the previous years, especially between 2009 and 2011, that Abrahamic Pact was a calendar of meetings between the Government of Spain and the Government of Galicia; it meant an AVE public agenda that you as Government, and the media, could evaluate and control; it also meant that citizens had access to the evolution of those works. In the evolution of these works we all agree, Counsellor, in her difficulty, in her technical problems, etc., but the technical and orographic problems and the difficulty of the works of AVE to Galicia are the same in 2015 and 2016 as in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009. And that's the question, basically, why there was this change in the demanding position of the German Government in the face of the development of these works. It is true that there has been a painful economic crisis, it is true. And here I want to describe the responsibility of the socialists. From 2011 until today, the Socialist Party has never asked for more budgets for AVE. Never. We call for greater execution, greater diligence in works, greater negotiation with companies in terms of project modifications, etc., but we never ask for more budgets. By the way, very different from what happened until 2011 with Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who I suppose was already aware of the existence of that crisis that according to him the Socialist Party hid in the governments of Spain and Galicia, and that he, of course, knew from the beginning. Today we became clear in the intervention as the fall of Lehman Brothers was the immediate responsibility of Government Zapatero, because he said the crisis was the fault of Government Zapatero, I understand that the global level. Now that globalization is in the forefront, I understand that global level. So here we are questioning and claiming with absolute legitimacy. We want the Government of Galicia to defend for Galicia a perfectly approved high-speed stroke with the AVE from the rest of Spain. We are very concerned about some issues, and in the second intervention I will talk specifically about the case of access to the bottleneck — in our opinion — of Ourense, but there is another issue that also concerns us. The Government of Mrs. Pastor, or Mrs. Pastor as Minister of Development, has modified some projects, as you are sure you well know, Counselor. A third line of Iberian width was removed which made it compatible for the movement of high-speed trains and conventional trains. Some tunnels and several viaducts have been shortened in the high mountain sections of the province of Ourense, which undoubtedly delays the works, but in the background what lies behind any reduction in that scope, if the length of tunnels and viaducts is lower, is a more complex plot and, therefore, lower average speed. What in railway language is called a jump of sheep in Oira — Ourense — that allowed the connection of the high-speed network Madrid-Galicia to the conventional network Ourense-Monforte, and that would allow the future connection Ourense-Monforte-Sarria-Lugo to be opened. Do you remember that, Counselor? that Mr. Feijóo was going to build with funds from the Board and then send the bill to the Ministry of Development. It was in 2009. Looks like you're making a surprise. Anyway, I can put my hand out of the hemero library, but I don't think it's necessary because we all remember it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u127	So, I insist, the interpellation, Counsellor, it has to do with the very political position of the German Government. We socialists believe that during Mr. Rajoy's first legislate was a disgraceful silence. It is true that at least Mrs. Pastor knew the country, and now we have a Cantabrian minister who is sure to know very well the high-speed future between Santander and Torrelavega, who, as you know, has already advanced a little in the BOE — you can go into the search — there has been a certain acceleration in the past month. I'm sure it's chance, I'm absolutely sure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u129	So we want to know why you changed Mr Feijó's so radical claim to a position — I insist — based primarily on faith and hope, which is not political, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u130	Thank you. The Life and Infrastructure Advisor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u131	Thank you, President. Mr Losada, I would like to thank you for bringing Parliament to debate the high-speed line of Galicia with Madrid. I think you can create some social unrest, and therefore I value it positively that you give me the opportunity to be here today to talk about the high-speed situation in Galicia with Madrid, but also to talk about history, as you were talking about. We all know we've been waiting for years in Galicia to complete and finish high speed with Madrid, but the truth is that Galicia joined the AVE in the year 2000, with Álvarez Helmets of Minister, and it was on that date that the AVE to Galicia actually picked up on that map of railway infrastructure and in planning. I would like to remind you — as you did history — that no socialist government presided over by Felipe González, of course, collected in infrastructure plans the AVE to Galicia, and above all with a minister of socialist and Greek transport as he was Abel Caballero. I show you here the infrastructure plan of the Greek Minister Abel Caballero: the AVE stopped in Valladolid. So Abel Caballero stopped the VE in Galicia in Valladolid. He also said there would be fast trains in the Meseta in 1993. Therefore, the high speed was collected on railway maps in the year 2000, with Álvarez Cascos. By the way, you were commenting on a question that I do not share, because the high speed in Spain itself began in the 1990s, because in 1992 Felipe González took the AVE to Seville. In any case, since then -- it's true -- there have been delays and a lot of extensions. By making history, as you did, first in 2008, the then president of Junta Emilio Pérez Touriño already said AVE would arrive in Galicia in 2012. Inescapable, in view of the state in which the contracts were in, and also the execution of the works. The truth — and I'm sure you remember it better than me — is that there was some minister more concerned because AVE had arrived at Malaga. With the arrival of President Feijóo, only three months after his taking possession, at a meeting with the Minister of Development, then the Welshman José Blanco, signed the Obradoiro covenant, guaranteeing a written commitment that set the date for the AVE to Galicia in 2015. Written commitment, written promise by the Minister, to allocate between 2009 and 2010, in tenders, 4,700 million. But the truth is that in 2010 there was not a single piece of this high-speed line. By the end of 2015, 15 out of the 22 truces between Puebla de Sanabria-Ourense had not begun nor had they been harmed, nor even some of them tendered. Therefore, history, memory and non-compliances again, and what was done was to give a new date, the year 2018, which we defended, because the White Minister, of course, denied that date of 2018, insisting on the year 2015, who knew for certain that it could not be fulfilled. So history, memory with facts, commitments, contracts and investments in official bulletins. Conclusion: It wasn't a left-wing party, of course, who really pushed AVE to Galicia. It wasn't a left-wing game, Mr. Losada. It wasn't a left-wing government. It wasn't your government. It wasn't your party. I don't think it was you who pushed AVE to Galicia in recent years. I think the bet of the current government is unquestionable. Here are the short distances of travel time, which is what citizens enjoy now going up to the Meseta train, connection to the Meseta, and also the Atlantic axis. Better than, of course, they cause users to drift away from public transport rather than from the private vehicle. And there's the Atlantic Axis, since April 2015 which has been put into service, to strengthen the connectivity between Vigo and Coruña. It increased the offer of squares by 40%; travel times that were reduced by 50% between Vigo and Coruña; improved a service that did not entail an increase in rates. So, Mr. Losada, if you take the train — I've been taking it — Vigo-La Coruña, you may be in a little over an hour — hour and twenty — and the Vigo-Saintiago route in about 50 minutes. An excellent welcome is what the success of the Atlantic axis, with more than 3.5 million passengers since its in-service position. So you're making progress with the Meseta and progress on the Atlantic axis too, with a significant decrease in travel times that we've continued to reduce, because that's what we want. In December 2015, the recent position in service of Olmedo-Zamor reduced the travel time between Ourense and Madrid in half an hour. The completion of the third Zamora-Pedralba Praderia, with 359 million euros to invest, will also mean a reduction of another half hour between Ourense and Madrid. Therefore, Ourense-Madrid will be in less than 4 hours connected by train in travel times. It's a great effort what has been done in recent years, and the mobilization of more than four billion euros. An ingenious effort, as you said, in times of great economic difficulties. And in short, something very simple, in all the Ourense-Madrid route, except the entrance to the city, are or all the truces in service or all the truces in works; therefore, there are contracts, there are works, there is budget. From Junta, of course, we're working to push it, to demand that the Government resolve as soon as the technical and administrative issues that are necessary and that the AVE arrives in Galicia as soon as and in a safe way. Of course we bet on that, and so we moved it to the Minister of Development at the meeting last April 5, a working meeting in which he moved that of course the AVE is a priority that bets to complete as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all of us here agree that large infrastructure requires great effort, the work of a lot of people, money, projects, bidding and solving impacts and conflicts in the works. Major public management challenges to solve – as is the case in all works – administrative, legal and technical obstacles. I share with you that it is difficult to do works in Galicia by the orography we have. So he also disagreed with me from that socialist minister who compared the work of AVE with the reforms of a house. So you will disagree with that socialist minister as I disagree. And we all know, too, and we'll share, that it's much easier to draw in plans than to bring the plans to reality, to the territory, and to do the works. These technical difficulties must, of course, be added to the exceptional difficulties and political circumstances which, of course, condition the timetables. The state's situation in 2016 has certainly not contributed to anything to promote major projects and to solve problems, and that political uncertainty has, of course, complicated its planning. The blockade and political paralysis have affected the pace of AVE's work in Galicia. And of course a government in functions has diminished its capacity. I think we would be very illusory if we thought that such an interim situation would not affect any matter. I invite you to reflect on me and think who might be the greatest responsible. In any case, evil is done. At the meeting on December 5th last year, I thank the Minister for speaking to us clearly about the impact, honestly. They axillated and identified the truces that had problems and resolutely unlocked four of the five truces that were blocked. So the minister and all his team are working. He was also ratified by the Secretary of State at the last meeting I was with them. So the Minister of Development has made a diagnosis and committed to reporting on the forecasts, giving realistic deadlines. We're not going to give up or give up until the end of the AVE is complete. And we can't afford to let the execution of certain truces serve as an excuse for the AVE not to arrive in Galicia as soon as possible. The Minister of Development, on that line, has expressed his commitment to the variant of Ourense and to the progressive modernization of the province of Lugo as well, the variant of Sardinian. We can't forget either the improvement of Ferrol's railway line. In any case, to get to Ourense, we have to go through the Padarnelo, through the Cerdedelo, through the Wayway of the Teixeras, and that's where we have to focus our attention. I think we have to add effort and work together. And if you want to talk about dates, Mr. Losada, we're talking about dates. The former president of Junta, Emilio Pérez Touriño, 2012; the date for the AVE, insumable. And socialist José Blanco compromised the AVE for the year 2015 knowing it was totally inexhaustible. For my part, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u132	Thank you, Counselor. Replica round, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, I didn't expect us to go back thirty years to an infrastructure map of the year 1987, Counsellor. The truth is that Mr. Abel Caballero is really beginning to be a sort of Freudian obsession. I understand you talk about it when you talk about boxes, metropolitan transport, health, education... but, well, on this subject... Home! in fact, on the maps of 1987 there was no high speed outside of some lines, namely that of Andalusia and the exit itself from Madrid towards certain coastal areas of Spain. And by the way, on the maps of 1953 there was no high speed anywhere, of course. It's obvious that way. The commitment of the People's Party to high speed in Galicia and Spain would like to read it in a resolution adopted in a non-legislative proposal of the Congress of Deputies, to see the commitment with dates and budgets: "The Congress of Deputies expresses the need to recognize that planned actions in the area of high-speed railways are strategic for Spain, so we must continue to work for its implementation as soon as possible, according to budget availability". It's a top-level political commitment. I believe this guarantees the arrival of high speed not only Ourense, Galicia, Vigo and Lugo, even Palafrugell, if you like. Perfectly, a powerful commitment that's said. Does big infrastructure have any problems? Of course they're in trouble, Counselor! But they also had problems between 2004 and 2011, except you didn't tell Mr. Feijóo that big infrastructures have problems. I'll read you some speech from Mr. Feijóo. December 2005: "The Board does not know how to ask what is ours" — referring to the AVE. March 2006: "Galicia will be the last community to have a high-speed train"—a prophet of the Apocalypse without any foundation, is fine. December 2007: "Faezóo demands 50% more investment for AVE and calls for connection with the Meseta to be operational in 2016." September 2008: "I will be implacable in the defence of the arrival of the AVE to Galicia and in which commitments are met. No one will stop me in the defence of Galicia's interests." No one, except a government of the PP in Madrid, who obviously stopped him. In 2008 Mr. Feijóo's dissuasive commitments were what they were, but the People's Party in Madrid tabled an amendment to the budgets in which in the Ourense-Lubian tranche of the Socialist Party, which had in the budgets for 2009 254 million euros, cut by 48% and left 134 million, approximately 52%. That's right, in January 2009 -- even on the eve of autonomics -- we'll do the AVE to Place and we'll pass the bill to Fomento. And then, in May 2009, excuses are no longer valid. They were still useless until 2011, when they started making excuses. And my apologies, Counselor. Apologies were, on the one hand, budgetary restrictions related to the crisis, but they weren't just those. It was an absolutely bad management. In 2015, the last year closed, a budget execution below 40%. Please, Counsellor, don't you think you should claim, for the sake of transparency, that the levels of execution of AVE to Galicia were public in real time, as they were until 2012? Why did the Ministry of Development remove that website or delete that website? To hide his shame. And by the way, the change in project reduction and the parallization into theory related to conflicts with companies is another way to hide what is an objective slowdown in the work of AVE within the province of Ourense. I don't want to talk about comrade Raúl Fernández, who lives there, but everyone sees him, you know, and it's very easy; unless he's like in Plisán, who also has, by the way, underground works. I know you're an expert in underground works, but at last... [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And then, Counselor, look, the government in office could judge exactly as the Government without being in office. And the proof is that in the first half of 2016 it paid 658 million euros for high-speed works. The problem is not to adjudicate them, Counselor, the problem is called to execute them. And finally, the entry into Ourense: 17 kilometers with an average slope of 2%. Everyone knows -- everyone who knows high-speed -- that the maximum slope for a high-speed line is 1.5%. A plot of the forty-fifty-five years, and by the way, an orography — if you keep that line — will make it absolutely impossible to keep the times. Mr Íñigo de la Serna — with an economicist approach that the People's Party has used to us — said 600 million euros to save 4 minutes. First of all, obviously, it can't be 600 million euros because we'd be talking about 35 million euros per kilometer, which didn't cost the Birds tunnel. So, we're not fools, I think you're neither and the president I suppose you're not. When they lie to them like that, please tell them they're lying to them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u135	Tell him they're lying to them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u136	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u137	And, of course, I don't want to be a tremendist. Santiago de Compostela kept the entrance to Santiago station by the Zamora-Ourense line.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u138	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u139	It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u140	Finish. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u141	We don't repeat trace errors that aren't at high speed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u143	...and that can cost a lot.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u145	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u146	Thank you. Shut up. Counsellor for Infrastructure and Living.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u147	Thank you, President. Mr. Losada, you spoke first of history. So from history I think we can all talk. Above all, if you introduce the debate to history, the truth is that Abel Caballero, when he was a minister, stopped the AVE in Valladolid. In any case, about Plisán, I invite you back — because we already invited you when I had a chance to visit to see the works next week. Surely the delegate and the director of Vivenda will go to visit the works of Plisán. I invite you back because you're in the works and we managed to solve those costumes that left us in Plisán. So there are works in Plisán, and we hope to market at the end of this year so companies can install themselves as soon as possible. In any case, returning to the theme of the high speed works of Galicia-Madrid, I would like to make clear two aspects of high speed with the Meseta. The first, which both the President of the Spanish Government and the Minister for Development committed themselves publicly on repeated occasions to the AVE. The minister himself, who is fully aware of the importance, and also the President of the Government in a recent interview. They said words and, of course, clarifications of the firm commitment of the President of the Government and the firm commitment of the Minister of Development. The second aspect, of course, is that the culmination of the railway connection to the German Government is totally irrevocable. It's always been and it's gonna be. We are aware that special situations require efforts and also exceptional measures. I'd like to be careful and wait for the next few days, at the next few days, so that the Minister of Development, at the expected meeting, will report to us on the forecast of the completion of the work of the AVE, as he has committed himself to the President of the Board. We must be careful, but we must also tell the truth. There's been some progress, a lot of progress, with governments in full faculty. In very little time they unblocked four thirds of the five truces that were locked up. It was communicated by the Minister of Development and confirmed by the Secretary of State. So I think it clearly shows that a government with full powers is needed to resolve all uncertainties. We are sure that there is political will — it is clear that there is political will — and also the necessary budgetary arrangements. Of course, what we all want is that Galicia is bound by AVE as soon as possible. I think you can be calm, that as soon as we know the Minister's date, we'll give it to the public, and you'll first-hand know the forecasts of the Minister of Development. We don't have the hair on our head to talk about the deadlines of the AVE. We don't have hair on our head. Minister Álvarez, every time he talked about the deadlines of the AVE, he put his hair on his head. You have a great hemerothec archive -- if you don't, I'll fix it, and we don't get pointed hair. Therefore, we will speak clearly and honestly about the deadlines for the AVE. We're not going to fool the Greeks. We want to assess the situation, identify the problems and ask for and demand, of course, solutions to those problems. And from the juntta we'll make the corresponding rating when we get to know the date. I insist that you be prudent and wait for the next few days for the Minister of Development to move his forecast. The fact is that it is obvious that a government needs full capacity and full executive powers to resolve all uncertainties. The political blockade, therefore, has been affected, because a political blockade is not good for any matter and it is not good for the infrastructures, and that situation of interimity responds to two acronyms, Mr. Losada, PS, which can be PS Pedro Sánchez or PS Socialist Party. I, of course, think so; look at it as you like. Furthermore, whoever terminated AVE's contracts to Galicia was that socialist minister, there's the data. It was really a socialist minister who terminated the contracts from AVE to Galicia. The Minister of Development came to ratify this commitment to AVE, insisted on public statements, also certified his appearance in Congress. And we're not going to settle, Mr. Losada, until the AVE arrives in Ourense from Madrid in two hours and a quarter and until the AVE reaches the Crown in three hours and a quarter. We're not going to settle! What we want is for the Greeks to enjoy the advantages of the reduction of time as soon as possible, so we won't comply. We'll be careful and vigilant. And I ask you to take responsibility for the state government to have an budget in 2017. And unity, unity, because we must not forget that the strength of a people lies in their ability to unite wills and unite efforts, because unity, of course, makes strength. So that's how we expect it. We agree that Galicia is demanding for justice, because it corresponds to it, a rail connection in time, a quality train, a train with economic and social benefits and a train that gives us more development opportunities for all Greeks. That's why we're asking for collaboration, for it to be completed as soon as possible. You have the opportunity to demonstrate your commitment to Galicia, and we hope that the state's 2017 budget will be approved as soon as possible. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u148	Thank you, Counselor. Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, from G.P. of En Marea, on the assessment by the Government of Greece regarding the prevention of male violence in the schools of Greece
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u149	Mrs Chao has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u150	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I would like to begin my intervention with a simple reflection, but what I think is necessary, to frame the subject that we are dealing with today. All the male killers and abusers who have the lives of thousands of women in our country go to school. Women who suffer violence, too. Given the average age of them — which is smaller every day — we can score more: all of them went to school in democracy, under an educational model that says to defend equality and non-discrimination between people on the grounds of sex, age, race, place of origin, sexual orientation or any other personal or social condition. More importantly, there are a lot of boys who study today in the Greek educational centers that they inflict and will inflict violence on women. And some girls sit in the classrooms of our schools who are already victims of emotional-sexually harmful and sadly normalized violent relationships. Do you do school enough to reverse this reality? I don't think so. Even Mrs. Prado admitted yesterday that something would be wrong. Something is going to be wrong since the council. We believe that, despite formal and legislative advances in equality, despite the efforts made by many teachers to promote the violet eye, the educational system is not alien to the dominant heteropatriarchal system, in which Machism permeates everything. In this way, the school is not developing all its transformer potential, and in many cases it remains as an institution only occupied in the transmission of knowledge. However, from En Marea we think that schools should be treated as spaces of special protection and relevance in the education of men and women in fundamental values such as equality and respect. We have in our hands the possibility of making school a place where the value of equality lies in the center, where to train men and women tomorrow to equip them with the tools necessary to challenge an unfair system. When we talk about macho violence, today almost no one is arguing that we are facing a state issue that hits all of us as a society and requires a global plan against the multiple forms of macho violence and its most extreme version, such as feminicides; a global plan that ends up in preventive policies. And in this age it is indisputable that school must be a fundamental piar, because, in the same way that Machism learns, equality can also be learned and it can also be taught. They say the experts in the subject that as with language learning, which, as it is known, is much easier in the early ages, before the brain matures, and is becoming difficult with the passing of years, also the most basic social models and expectations are better learned in the younger years. In this way, both sexism and equality, once learned in childhood, tend to stay, acting like a second skin. That's why we say that building a culture for equality must start from classes. Unfortunately, there is a lot of data that alerts us that the matter of equality remains a pending matter; some have already been commented on yesterday. According to the Spanish Macroenquisa of violence against women in 2015, 21% of women under 25 years of age were victims of male violence, compared to 9% of the total, if we do not differentiate by age. Not only that, but recent qualitative studies on male violence among teenagers show how the relationship between jealousy and love is increasingly assimilated and internalized. In the same way, since girls grew up in an environment of increasing rights for women, they do not conceive of the existence of masculine violence in their environment, living in the known "spellism of equality", which makes them think that there is no longer any fundamental difference between the situation of men and women, which makes it even more difficult to detect situations of inequality and the possibility of fighting them. Another data. According to the general violence observatory of the General Council of the Judiciary, from 2012 to 2016 the juveniles judged by male violence increased by 42%. In four years they increased by 42%! However, far from what could be expected, resources for fighting against macho violence do not increase, but, under the excuse of the economic crisis, the neoliberal mantra of budgetary stability and the containment of expenditure, we have seen a series of severe cuts. And we always say this: in politics, commitment is demonstrated by budgeting; in order to make equal policies, money is needed. But we're not only talking about budget cuts, but about political decisions that agree with a clearly conservative ideology, when not clearly macho. For example, we can talk about funding with public money for educational concerts with centres that segregate the student on the basis of sex — a real attack on education on equality! — that you insist on maintaining. Or remember the suppression of demonized and badly-fangled education for citizenship, which they used in the most embarrassing electoral way and which had among their objectives the integration of specific content in order to promote equality in courses where younger people start to have their first couple relationships. Partly claimed in the matter of gender equality proposed by his government a few months ago. Don't misunderstand me. Rectify, even if it's late and partly, it's wise people. After all, and even if they don't say it, it seems that that bad subject wasn't, otherwise they wouldn't claim its contents now. The sad thing is that, from two steps back, it only recovers half forward, because moving forward like this is really complicated. Let's stop for a moment in this matter. As I said, it's a matter of new birthplace that's only been implanted in the education system for a few months. Since we're not going to do the same thing as you did, we're not going to stand against measures just because they come from your hand, they're going to understand that there are many of the doubts we have about it, questions I hope you can answer me in your replica shift. For example, it is necessary to know how many centres in this course have chosen the previous subject of gender equality; how many students and students are studying it this year; which was due to the enormous delay in offering it, which implied that many centres had already closed their planning and could not request it. Do you consider the dissemination work that has been done on it appropriate for the centres to actually request it? What training does the teacher have in charge of this matter? How many hours does it involve? Who designed the program? What about the materials? They look at them as very specific questions, and if they don't point them... I don't know exactly who's gonna answer me later, but the truth is nobody's taking notes. If they don't write them down, then it'll be hard to answer them. And one more: consider... No, registered... now I have more questions than those recorded, if they're interested. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] One more: do you think equality should be an optional matter? And most important of all: an optional matter that centers, parents and students choose freely? I'll tell you what, not for us. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, the wager for equality is not something optional that parents can choose according to their beliefs or schools according to their ideological orientation, or students, but the only way to fight against all forms of violence that we suffer from women, which is essential for a just and worthy society of that name. That is why we consider the Council's proposal for a subject to be clearly insufficient. But there's more. If we review the Council's work on equality in educational institutions, we must refer to two major propaganda announcements. First of all, the first Action Plan for Equality in the Education Centres of Galicia 2016-2020; plan that includes an economic memory in which it is said that it is not possible to establish a singularized quantification of the economic resources destined for the execution of it, which is so much to say that we are going to talk a lot and do a little, because, as I said before, feminist policies, equality policies, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party cost money. Secondly, reference must be made to the Project Plans. What about the Project Plan? If we look at the definition that the Council itself does, we find that it is an initiative, in collaboration with different bodies, aimed at promoting educational innovation in the centres through programmes that develop key competences of the curriculum axis and cross-cutting elements such as value education. They actually placed equality among themselves, with two programmes coordinated with the General Secretariat of Equality. I'm talking about "Women of Himself" and "For 365 days of respect and equality." What they didn't announce so much is that they were very limited projects, so limited that 365 days of respect and equality could only be requested by ten centres throughout Galicia. Ten centers across Galicia! This is a determined bet for equality! Can you tell us why it was only 10? Because you see, the number seemed so ridiculous to me that, by reviewing how many centres were covering other Projects, I found that, while they are at 10 schools in the country that should be dealt with by the violence of masculinism, there are 40 that can talk about methodology, or 48 that can talk about what we are doing here today, about Parliament, which is good, but of course, if we have to choose between what is more priority, talk about what we do within Parliament or fight against masculinistic violence, because we don't agree with its priority. That's why several questions arise: how many schools have been denied the possibility of having a Project to fight against macho violence?, what were the criteria?, how much does each of these projects cost? For the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, it is incomprehensible that it is not said that centres that want to bet decisively on a project against violence against men. These negatives are the greatest example of their policy against machismo. The slogan is clear: let us do little, but it seems that we have done so much, so characteristic of his government. As they do in the case of violence against the LXTBI community: laws, protocols, but when they have to vote to remove homophobic trash from the classroom, they do so against it, as they just did a few days ago. You know what to say is free! However, we do not resist to accept that we continue to take advantage of the transformer potential of the school, because, as Nelson Mandela said, education is the most powerful weapon to transform the world. At stake, a better society for all and for all on equal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Chao, I think, after the agreement there was today in this House, your speech is a little out of focus. Disfocused because, if something has shown the agreement we have just had in this House, it is that the fight against violence is something that must unite us all, it is something that doesn't understand color, it doesn't understand ideology, it doesn't understand social class, it doesn't understand — let's say — differences, but it's something that to some extent has to unite the whole of society. It's not a social, health or educational problem specifically. It's a social problem, it's a social gap that reaches different spheres of society and families, of course, also families. In short, I think your vision is a little out of focus, especially when you're moved here to this thirst that there's like a sort of macho ideology and other non-machist ideology. I think that in your exhibition — equivalent and bold — it was unwise, because you know that I could bring you out here some references — that I will not do — some very close political ideologies that, obviously, your own members define themselves in a way that you also know and I will not do. With which, I think that's a mistake you have. I don't know if it's a personal mistake or it's a partisan mistake of its political formation, but it should be more prudent in its statements. We can understand that you ask for more action in any area, in education, in health care, in the judiciary, in any area, in a public administration. Let's get this straight. And we are all aware that more can always be done in all areas. But I think that, with humility, in the field of education, in the field of public education, you are working on this subject, I think at a good pace. I think the data is on the table and you're not going to be surprised, I don't think you'll be surprised, but you'll have to look for some less book argumentation, less manual, in order to be able to hold your claims in the replica shift. I'll tell you that, of course, this council, together with the General Secretariat of Equality, as it cannot be otherwise, we share objectives. We are faced with a complex issue, a matter that has many ramifications, a social, absolutely social matter, and don't forget, we don't forget anyone, that the education system has in its hearts students, children and girls, a few hours a day, but the rest are in society, the rest are in the family, the rest are receiving collective messages, and we don't have to focus only on the education system issues that, understood by all and shared by all, have to be in the collective and have to be in the general view of our society. We must therefore have an integral vision. [[Applause]] You mentioned a plan. Not long ago, in September, a few months ago, I was lucky enough to present — together with Vice-President of the Union — a pioneering plan, the I Action Plan for Equality in Galicia's educational centres with the 2020 horizon. It's a plan that obviously has a goal: to promote a more just, more equal society through the training and education of our children. I think we'll agree there. It has a series of objectives, nearly 100 specific actions of awareness and training which, in some ways, are oriented towards the vast majority of students in our education system — 380,000 — if they are involved, to record and to have knowledge — including the teacher, of course — that it is necessary to fight against something that is a crack and that we all understand it to be a crack. And for that we do a series of teaching materials, training materials, and also training courses for the teacher, which we want to raise awareness. What are the vertebral points of this plan? The first is that gender equality is a cross-sectional knowledge. In a curriculum or academic standard there's pure knowledge, but there's cross-sectional knowledge that's values. Knowledge, for example, about the environment; knowledge, for example, in the fight against gender-based violence, are cross-sectional knowledge, are in all academic curricula. In any subject you use, in any text book you can handle, I recommend to you or I ask you to take any primary or secondary textbook and you will see how the fight against gender violence and equality between men and women is always present in all curricula cross-sectionally, as a cross-sectional axis that can channel any matter through basic values for society as a whole. This is in all curricula and all educational standards, and it's a basic point that somehow is in this plan and that we're doing. Of course, a second point is the construction of an equal society. A third is to achieve what we call objective zero violence, and not only in the classrooms, but in society. Finally, to also educate in the full integration of all people, above their affective or sexual choice. You also quoted a document or a subject that we understand is important, which is the subject of gender equality. For the first time it is implanted in Galicia this year, it is freely configured. And we mustn't be so unfocused when Galicia is the second autonomous community in Spain. There are only two autonomous communities that we have in Spain, and Galicia is one of them. This year it was initially done in 24 centers first and second of the ESO. Somehow, these are subjects that are progressing, and I will tell you that their contents, Mrs Chao — although I have not taken note of their questions — are made by professionals, linked to the world of equality and education. For its tranquility, they're content that is public, they're on the network, they're in educational centers, and they're basically oriented to define the main concepts of gender and equality and also relationships of coexistence and affectivity. They also refer to the history of discrimination against women in all spheres, and they also pose masculine violence as an object or as a consequence of discrimination. Also -- something you didn't mention -- you're working to implement a higher grade training cycle, in the field of Vocational Training, with a gender perspective. Something that you haven't mentioned, and that's also very important, is all that has to do with the teacher's training in this matter. There are lots of teacher training actions geared towards managing gender violence in educational curricula You mentioned the Project Plan. The Project Plan must know that it's within a broader strategy; it's within the Galician Strategy of School Coexistence. We have the Project Plan and we have the Education Protocol to ensure equality, non-discrimination and freedom of gender identity. In the specific case of the Project Plan, we have two plans Project with the General Secretariat, which arrive at those centres that develop early education and educational innovation initiatives in this area, and which enable projects that involve the whole centre. They're requested by the centers, and in this case we have two. We have one you mentioned: "For 365 days with respect and equality" of prevention of gender-based violence in the educational field, which basically its orientation is that the whole center works to eliminate sexist stereotypes. And that's also the "Women of Himself" project, which is basically to highlight the importance women had, in different areas, in the construction of Galicia: in the cultural, economic, productive field, etc. Another issue in which we are working, in which we have also been pioneers both in the administrative field and at the autonomous level, was the launching of an education protocol to ensure equality, non-discrimination and freedom of gender identity in the educational field. We have done so with associations and collectives, and basically what was oriented is that educational centres — regardless of the orientation and sexual proposal of each child — have tools that in some way allow all students — regardless of their gender — to be able to develop their activity without any kind of problem, always respecting equality, respecting plurality, respecting the difference and always promoting respect. You also talked about co-education. Co-education is to educate in values, in opportunities, in respect and in dealing with people, and I think it's a very free statement and that it lacks the truth — especially for the hundreds of thousands of professionals who work every day in the education system — that there is no co-educational system that respects values, that respects equality, that respects inclusion, that respects diversity. The thousands of professionals who work every day would be surprised when you think there's no co-educational system that fosters values. Anyway, I'll be right back to the beginning to finish. It would be very good, especially after the agreement we have just reached here today, in this House, not to fall into the temptation to think that sexism or masculine violence can only be eradicated through the educational system; it would be a mistake. It would also be a mistake to think that the education system has to stand aside from this struggle. We have to focus, we have to think that this is a struggle that we all have to face, the whole of society in all variables: political leaders in their statements, the media, social networks... We are all, and we are all aware that we have to involve ourselves and that this has to have an integral vision; that we are all responsible, that we are facing a social problem — and also familiar on many occasions — and that since the public education system in Greece we are doing it, we are working and we are implementing different initiatives. Of course we have to keep working and improving, but, in any case, I think the balance — especially compared to other autonomous communities — is to collectively think that we are on the right line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u153	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u154	Mr. Román, ten minutes to answer a lot of specific questions and he didn't. You'll know why, but the truth is we had concrete questions and you didn't. You're asking for caution. I only ask you to comply with your obligation, which is to answer the questions of the opposition, nothing more and nothing less, because, as I know, the education advisor is you. If we have questions, please answer them. We were told that this consists of an interpellation. If you don't, maybe you can explain it to me in your reply. If they don't answer any of the questions we ask them, as you will understand, it is really hard to have a serious parliamentary debate. We can argue, we can even do what you did, which was to put in my mouth things that I didn't say, because, obviously, we have thousands of professionals committed to equality, but what we're claiming is that this does not depend on the will of teachers, which, obviously, in most cases, is positive, but rather has to respond to a plan of their advice, not at the time and the abilities that teachers have. That's what we're talking about. He still has a second turn, so, as he hasn't pointed at them before, so now he wants to point out some questions he left unanswered. And also clarify a question. He said the subject was taught in 24 centers. These are not the data that brought us the professionals who impart it, so I think something fails. But still, I'm going to grant you 24 centers -- although I'd be surprised that unions wanted to lie about the number of centers that were being given, but we're going to think it was a misunderstanding and you're right. Do you think it's enough 24 centers for all Galicia to share this matter with? You think it's like, "Oh, dear, we've done so much!"Is that what you're talking about? We think it's not, especially because you're sucking out that equal education is an optional, non-compulsory and transversal matter. Twenty-four centers. How many students and students think they're studying that subject? Nor did he answer that the enormous delay in offering this matter was due to the fact that it could be planned in the centres. I also do not know whether the dissemination work done on it is appropriate or what specific training the teacher has in this field or how many hours this training involves. How many schools have been denied the possibility of having a project to fight against macho violence? For us this is very important, and neither did he say it. You might think there's enough 10 centres that treat macho violence in a project plan. We don't think so. But don't worry, don't take note, let's repeat it in writing, see if that's the way we're more lucky and answer us. Of course, I think there are quite eloquent silences, and that they don't want to say how many children and girls study in Galicia the matter of gender equality, nor what specific training teachers have to impart that matter, nor how many centers have been denied the possibility of having a project to fight against masculine violence, is more than a symptom. Well, since you don't say it, we'll say it. This government has denied a project against macho violence more than half of the applicants, and that we have confirmed, there are fewer than ten centres throughout the country where the comment is being given, so I say that the data do not match. You're satisfied. We think that these figures make it difficult to be satisfied. As I expected, you talked about rules and protocols, and we must insist: the problem is not about rules, but about commitment, budgeting and effectiveness. To establish a standard in equality in the education system without forcing the training of teachers and teachers is wet paper. Schools and institutes are not an island for equality, but a key parcel where the patriarchate settles and reproduces. That's why we came here to talk about teaching, even though you think it has to be something transversal, obviously. Today we're talking about teaching, another day we'll talk about something else. They have macho stereotypes in them. The important gestures carried out by men — always by men! — are taught and the gender roles are provided by modeling different expectations for children. That's why we think it's in the classrooms where we have to act more forcefully. Not only in ten centers in the country, but in all of them; not only in the ESO's first youth, but in all courses. Not only as an option, but as a mandatory subject, so that equal training is a real cornerstone of the education system. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, the dissemination of values and the defence of human rights in school is essential for the consolidation of a democratic spirit, and it is fundamental for the advancement of the society free of macho violence that we hope to achieve. Today, our educational system lacks the means and tools necessary to bring about the tasks entrusted by the comprehensive law against gender violence. And I don't say so, not then say that I said it, but that it's the conclusions of the first educational days to prevent macho violence. There is, therefore, much to do in what we hope to be able to achieve as much consensus as possible. Of course, without answering our questions, and voting against removing homophobic macho schools, it's just as hard. I said yesterday the vice president was trying. Well, let's believe it, but please try it a little better! The challenge is no smaller, we have to build that other world possible since school. That's why we think school is the fundamental pillar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u156	Mrs Chao, you were asking for a serious parliamentary debate. Obviously, we are what we always do. But a serious parliamentary debate has rules, it has rules. If you ask some questions on an initiative and then you ask others, you will understand that this is not serious, and of course, you come here, you ask some questions in writing on your initiative, and then you ask others. And then, when you answer, you don't like the data, ask them. Well, look, you want me to tell you, so we'll hardly have a serious debate with you. It's going to be very hard for us to understand ourselves, because if you ask me questions that aren't in any way on the initiative, you'll understand that the Government, or any audience, has to answer those questions. We answer what we're doing. We answer that we have a plan, a subject, a plan. We answered more things, such as the teacher's training program, which you've made clear; we also answered about the protocols that we have in progress. You don't like it all. Well, there's not much to do. But there's a fundamental question, Mrs Chao, and we're talking about transversal content education, and that's fundamental. Education in a value, such as gender equality or environmental respect or any other value, is not learned only in a particular subject, as if it were mathematics or biology. And it's that in mathematics or biology you can learn about the environment or you can learn and internalize the fight against gender equality, which is called transversal knowledge. And you very much question a subject that started here pioneering, along with another autonomous community, this year in Galicia. Well, there are fifteen autonomous communities that have nothing, fifteen autonomous communities that have no single specific reference to gender violence. Home! I am aware, I would miss more!, that it is always necessary to improve at all: in mathematics, in language, in anything it is always necessary to improve, in infrastructure, in equipment and in equipment, but don't tell us we don't do anything because in other autonomous communities there is absolutely nothing done. And you too, Mrs Chao -- and I tell you with all due respect -- a certain vocation of trying to discover the Mediterranean with your words, it seems they're discovering the Mediterranean. Look, a famous Czech composer said that the best education is the example, that there is no more education than the example. And I think that in this area, when we talk about values and we talk about human formation in some way, the example is fundamental. The education system provides an example of having internalized the need to fight against this scourge in the educational system in many ways, regardless of whether you look like few centers or many, we're not going to discuss this. The example is very important. You may think that the education system is a sort of "minister of truth," where we can teach students what we want from our own particular ideology, and it shouldn't be that. The education system has to educate in freedom, in knowledge in different areas of knowledge, and also in values, but always without using the education system as a social engineering factory. That's something that we have to take into account, and something that the left usually tries to use, avoiding the freedom of the education system or trying to monopolize or fragment everything that has to do with the education system. That's why I insist on example, and in this particular area there are many examples in society as a whole that are favouring or harming gender equality. In the media, on occasion, there are programs that are regrettable, of course. Social networks, statements from politicians, from very high politicians; and I'm not going to say names for you not to be offended, but you know perfectly well who I mean, very close to you, from an ideological point of view. I believe that education in values is an education that is oriented to train people, to train individuals, to create — as Socrates said — good citizens. In which I believe that, in some way, this is to think that every day the Mediterranean is discovered and that before us there was nothing, it leads them on a very wrong path. In any case -- I said it before and I repeat it -- it would be a mistake, it's a mistake, to think that the solution to masculine violence is only in education, and it would also be a mistake to think that education has to stand out of this. And we in Galicia — humbly, I think — are working in different areas so that the struggle, awareness, social vision in this field is clearly also in the educational system, and we are humbly achieving it with the actions we are pushing. We're working on a good average note -- I'm not going to say outstanding, but with a good average note -- on different issues: in regard to diversity, including equality, and not discrimination on grounds of sex and coexistence. You will know — I hope you know — that last year the Council did a macro-enquiry on the educational agenda, where there were over 200,000 people who responded to this macro-enquisition, and this macro-enquisition said that more than 80% of the consultants felt or appreciated that there was no great problem of coexistence in Galicia. More than 80% of teachers, parents, students, felt that there was no problem of living together in educational institutions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u157	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u158	Now, what we have to move in this area and what we need to continue to improve and what we must all work together against a social and collective scourge that causes enormous problems to half the society. We have to be aware of that. And we show that the education system is a problem that concerns us and concerns us. But I also tell you frankly that, if we don't all realize that this is a social problem, a collective problem, a problem that doesn't distinguish colors or political ideology...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u159	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u160	...no social class, no geographic distribution of the population, it would be an error. Don't fall into that mistake, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u161	Thank you very much. Interpellation by Mr Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the position of the Government of Galicia to Galicia regarding the revision of the model of self-financing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u162	Mr. Leicega has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u163	Good morning again. We're still discussing autonomic funding, and at the inbound I want to point out that I'm sure we have some coincidence. We are talking about supporting the main activities of the Galician Union: health, education, social services and infrastructure. This is at the end of what we're discussing. So it's a debate that's enormously important, as far as the burden of public spending on GDP, of self-sustainment, is higher, as is the case in our community. In the last year settled, the year 2014, of approximately 7 billion that represented strict autonomic financing sensu for Galicia, homogenous competences, is about 70% of total expenditure, but it's over 80% very clearly when we're talking about non-financial expenditure. So this is the heart, the financial core, the support of all our activity. The 2009 model had to be reviewed in 2014, and it was not done. Montoro opened a door and then closed it. For reasons, at last, that can be understood. I mean, it wasn't the central administration at the best time, from a financial point of view, to be able to meet the demands of the communities, and there was also what I had to call the challenge of a part of Catalan society — in any case of its government — that made it difficult for there to be a reasonable solution to this. Today we're in a somewhat different situation, especially in the economic-financial sphere, because it's a recovery that moves to public income and that should allow a slightly larger margin. Not in the political plane, where we still have the difficulty that perfectly illustrates the absence of the President of Catalonia at the last conference of presidents, so there is still that difficulty. Negotiation is advanced, the format of a commission of experts; it seems to me that this reinforces the need for autonomous communities. There was a temptation to resolve in the Congress of Deputies, a little behind the community, the new model of self-financing. I believe that this is right not to be so, that communities are from the beginning active and have a decisive role in shaping the model, rather than at last — as has happened before — this must be transformed into law through a decision of the Congress of Deputies, but that communities are previously in agreement. The forecast is to finish this year. I hope that this indicates that the financial results — which I hope are positive — are also applicable since January 1, 2017, because that would allow the Autonomous Community to have more resources in the budgets this year, at least in its liquidation, that would be good for everyone. It has already happened in 2009, that negotiations were closed late, the law in the Congress of Deputies was passed in December, but it has applied since 1 January. And recalling 2009 -- I said yesterday -- eleven thousand six hundred and one million were contributed in three exercises, 2009, 2010 and 2011, which is a figure that at that time the president of the Board of Directors today and then considered enough, but which, seen today, is less ill. Especially because the fall of tax variables, which has greatly affected autonomic funding, without this injection of resources, would produce hardly decisive results. Yesterday, I was told the spokesperson for the People's Party: don't talk about figures. But it is inevitable to talk about figures, because it completely changes negotiation! You see, if the Government of Spain decides not to provide an additional euro, if it had decided that, the negotiation of a new model of self-financing would mean a zero-sum game. So that autonomous community he won would be the cost of another autonomous community. Hardly, in a multilateral format, this will produce the slightest consensus. So we'd probably be back in front of a failed occasion. And I'm not asking you to put 12,000 million or 11,600 million again, but I'm saying there is a need for some commitment from the Government of Spain to increase the funds of autonomic funding, otherwise it will not be possible to articulate a consensus that allows you to go to a new model. Secondly, surely in those conditions it would be absolutely impossible for Galicia to improve its position in absolute or relative terms. The president of the board didn't want to get wet, but I hope you have the ability to go a little further and forward some numbers. How reasonable do you think, Counsellor, that, in current circumstances, he would put on the table the Rajoy Government to deal with this debate about the autonomous financing that binds us all? Half that figure of 11,600 million, all the number? Tell us something about that financial horizon, because it would be extremely important to know that Galicia demands the system. When we complain about the lack of resources for some things, we're saying there's a vertical imbalance that the central government must complete. If not, it's good to know. But, in any case, I knew the document you sent to the Minister Montoro in 2014 for that negotiation, and they were indicating that there was some insufficiency, some imbalance, of a vertical nature. So, something must say. Secondly, on the basis of criteria, we're going to agree on a basic issue. We need to finance expenditure needs. The Autonomic Farm, from the perspective of spending, is a service farm, from services to people, also some infrastructure, but basically people's services. So it's the needs of people who have to determine how much to finance. And then, the autonomy of each autonomous community has to decide what to spend on, whether the resources allocated are sufficient or need to increase them a little bit, or more than the necessary ones, and so you can reduce tax pressure. But, in any case, it's the needs of people who have to order everything. I agree with that, but again the devil is in the details. The question is how we deal with this, and there we need forecasts and we need concretion. The current model is already oriented towards financing according to expenditure needs, though imperfect. The current model already takes into account aging, dispersal. So the question is, is this aging and dispersion weighting, the health weighting in the model, which is 38%, is it okay? is it insufficient or is it excessive? Where would it be reasonable for us to put ourselves? Because about 38% is the health expenditure on the total Autonomous Community, but if we measure it in terms of self-financing, health expenditure is much more. We have a margin there so we can get closer. It's good to know what are the targets we're looking at, because there are already seven old stages for the financing of health, and therefore the older sixty-five years already have a weight, do you have to increase that weight? Do you have to create more old stages, over the sixty-five or out of the eighty-five? And the same thing happens to dispersal, and the same thing happens to the weighting that social services have, that's it. Just as it is good to know that, even if the population problems are reduced, are already taken into account in the model too, because at the time of sharing the convergence funds this is the criterion that allows Galicia to have additional funds each year. So we'll have to strengthen this, but it's good to admit that this already exists. So these are the precisions that I ask you to pass from poetry — that we all like poetry, myself too — to prose and give some figure, some reference, some estimation that allows us to steer in this debate, know, beyond rhetoric, which is the real position of the Council of Galicia, what it demands from the state, what are the expectations that confronts this negotiation, and I believe that this is necessary in order to improve the public debate on this issue and that among all of us we have more clarity on what Galicia needs. If there is no such clarity now, we will cause — through the motion — that there must be a decision by this Parliament on these things, which will be positive or negative, that is your decision, but in any case it will make it more clear what we are talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u164	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u165	Mr. President. Your Honor, ask me for the position of the German Government on the revision of the system of self-financing. I'll repeat it once again: the same thing we've had since the beginning, because since the Greek Government we've explained on many occasions that the present system does not meet the demands of Galicia or the expectations it has generated. Its two main eeves are the growing deficits in sufficientness and equity. I'll explain it with data; some reference made you a moment ago. According to all reports on the current model of self-financing, it is clearly insufficient. In theory, it brought EUR 11,409 million more to the system's resource basket — the last year of the previous system — to finance, in principle — and those you also referred to — the fundamental public services of the state of well-being, which was 13.5% more between 2009 and 2010 over 2008. But the reality is that if we compare the final resources brought by the system to the budgets of 2008 and 2010, they dropped by 20% in total and nominal terms, i.e. the initial increase of 13.5% remained at –20% two years later, certainly, and to a large extent, by the low resilience of the system to the crisis. What responsibility can be satisfied with this evolution? Even more, as I also well pointed out, 80 percent of the self-governing public income, and which basically funds these well-being pillars, which in times of crisis, in addition, act as shelter for the most disadvantaged, i.e., show tension at the rise. In fact, if the additional resources were needed to finance the state of well-being that we managed from the autonomous administrations, especially on the route that we were talking about as a dependency—it is not to see also the PowerPoint that at that time we had to vary what was said to be left— it is clear that the autonomous communities of the general regime do not have enough funding to meet this expenditure. And what are the two main reasons? One, his design, because he did not prioritize the actual costs of providing basic public services, but was conditioned by a political pact between the Government of Spain at that time, and the parties ruling in Catalonia. Another, for its evolution, because its application did not respond to the purposes or expectations, and it was clearly insufficient to meet the expenditure needs that Galicia needs, which throughout this time had to compensate for various financial measures. I therefore reiterate to you that our position is that we have always had: we have gone, we are and we will be consistent and accountable. I also remember that Galicia was obliged to sign it, because otherwise the Government of Greece would have to return by 2010 — a year in which the income of the system fell by 20 per cent of what I was referring to a moment ago — 574 million euros. But in 2009, we would have to return 1,600 million euros of negative liquidations that left the former Government duty, which would obviously seriously affect the exercise of our own powers. In addition, the Government of Spain conditioned the additional funds of the new system — which, in principle, one party intended to finance the dependency — to which the community assigned this financing model. But in the end, why is it not a satisfactory system for Galicia? It is insufficient and not resilient to crises, it does not have a map of services that quantifys the actual costs of providing services and does not properly collect the circumstances that the Galician community has as the great dispersion or the high ageing of the population. Thus, there is an insufficient assessment of the dispersal variable and a low weight of the population protected by the aging factor. That's why we asked to introduce more old strata from the age of sixty-five. It's not the same as the cost of social services and the health of a person of sixty-five, eighty-five or ninety-five, and in Galicia we have nearly 110,000 people who are eighty-five or more years old. What is our aspiration? We want a system that guarantees the financing needs of the public services that Galicia provides. That is why we are pleased that the Government of Spain is pushing a conference of presidents to address this issue. We are faced with a positive change, both in forms and in the background. In other ways, because we have just agreed on a new model between the two of us trying to agree with the presence — among all of us — of the President of the Government and of the maximums responsible for each autonomous community, and at the bottom, because it would be the need for revision of the model and priorities and deadlines to address it. We were able to defend, a priori, our posture, and each one, too, to listen to the position of the others. Galicia was heard, but we also heard the others. At the Conference of Presidents there was a constructive spirit, without formulations, in principle, ideological party and with the predisposition of the participants to an agreement. Although we are in an initial phase — we are never mistaken that we are in an initial phase — I reiterate that there were very positive aspects. It discussed the real needs to address the revision of self-financing, introduced essential variables to achieve a separate piece of health, created a group to analyze the funding of the unit, assumed the convenience of reaching a pact for demography and laid the foundations for the revision of the financing model based on three principles, all very interesting for this autonomous community: effective cost of services, multilaterality and stability. It is essential to be able to finance the actual cost of public services, and for that we need to know what it costs them in each community, with their uniqueities and specificities, and in particular in health care, which in Galicia already accounts for more than 40% of the expenditure. It is essential that the resources that are integrated into the system are shared among all, multilaterally, with criteria that guarantee the same quality of service delivery regardless of the territory where they are provided, and it is essential, too, that the new system of self-financing comes to stability and has a vocation of permanence. And the corollary is that health and dependence must be treated as separate parts. In addition, as I said, Galicia has managed to move the demographic debate, which is already very present in Galicia, to the whole of Spain, and where we coincided with seven more communities. We all agree, Your Honor, that the financing system is one of the two fundamental pillars, in my opinion, of the construction of the state of autonomy. But I insist that we don't have to focus negotiations like a auction, to see who gets the most money. But it is also necessary to take into account two capital issues that characterize the financing of the main spending policies that we have developed: their rigid nature as services, especially current expenditure incentives, especially in staff costs and linked to demographic dynamics, i.e. health, social services and education; and their nature as services to the citizen, which implies that we have substantial differences in unit cost, depending on the characteristics of each territory. These characteristic notes are the ones that must be reflected in the design of the system if we want them to guarantee these financing needs of the public services, the object of our provision, and again I'm referring to the adequacy and equity. Before the negotiations were opened for the review, since Galicia we have been very active in the working group created within the Financial and Fiscal Policy Council, making it manifest — you have also made a reference for a moment — the weaknesses we detected in the model, but also by manifesting our demands, at the same time that we also have conversations with multiple autonomous communities, almost all, to know their evaluation, and even setting with much of the criteria between those factors that are consistent between our community and, above all, those of the western communities of Spain. But at the same time, we also believe that there is a need for a revision of the dimension not only horizontal, but also of the vertical financing of public administrations, and that they improve the following aspects: the sufficient equity of current funding; an improvement in the calculation of the cost-requirement indices that more realistically impose the costs of aging and dispersal; an explanation of the financing of basic public services; an increase in fiscal co-responsibility and institutional loyalty; and a sustainable dynamic evolution. This review is already under way and, given the transcendence it has for our community, we hope to count on its support and on the other parliamentary groups in Galicia to defend the interests of our autonomous community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u166	Thank you very much, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u167	Thank you very much, Counselor, not so much for the quantitative precisions, that there were not them, as for the tone and the criteria, that about that we will never cease to agree. But if I quoted Shakespeare yesterday, today I got a little more beer, at last, "I think God would scare me this greatness," but in the end the strambote, "it was and there was nothing." So I have the impression that in this debate we are doing so, great words at the Conference of Presidents - "I am afraid of this greatness" - but in the end there is nothing. And it's very good to say that we have to talk about principles, and I'm the first thing we want to talk about the principles of self-financing, but ultimately the principles must also be translated into euros, because we don't fund health, we don't fund education, and the principles are essential and we need them, because it has to be a model that is helpful to all autonomous communities, but we also need euros. I think it's nice to say... I'm not going to come in to discuss the previous model, I published something in 2012 collecting previous and extremely critical jobs with that model, so don't explain to me the difficulties that this model has, that I'm the first to recognize it, and I already have more to publish it. The point is, you're telling me there's a lack of resources, and insufficiency means there's a lack of resources in the system. I ask you for some extra precision: how much is missing? Let's put -- I'm not telling you an exact figure -- some reference, some indicator, some idea that tells us where you want to go. I'm a little worried about the separate pieces. Let's see, if that means we're going to strengthen funding for health and dependence, perfect. If what we're talking about is that there are static compartments, it can be a problem from two points of view. It can be a problem, first, because it reduces autonomous communities' spending autonomy, and that's not good, because, in the end, what it means is that they decide from outside where we want to spend our resources; it's the opposite of the model and the principles we mentioned earlier. But, above all, secondly, that this opens the way for one of the main deficiencies in the current system — those that seem to me more delicate than the current system — which is the introduction of two types of services — the basic ones and the others — and, therefore, where solidarity only applies to basic services — which is said in the current system, although it is not fully implemented — if it is consolidated and in the end we have solidarity for health, for social services, but not for the rest. And it doesn't seem to me that the service of justice is less basic than any other service that we can consider essential, as far as autonomous communities are concerned. So I want full solidarity. You see, I'm also talking about principles and values, but that's why the separate parts have some complications. If you mean: we reinforce the funding of health, perfect, no problem, no problem; but you must mean that, because that's the most important thing in the end. If we treat it separately and ultimately we don't produce the right results, because it wouldn't be too good. The question, at last, of auctioning doesn't seem too sensible to me. The model must have principles and resources, but the model at the end produces results. There is an area of cooperation between the necessary communities, but there must also be an area of competition; and it is good to do so, because we have to recognise it and act on the basis that it exists. Each community is beginning to defend its interests. We are going with a little delay, because there are other communities that have advanced much more in the design of their formulations, for example, Valencia — but it is true that part of a more delicate position than our own — But we have to press the accelerator and move forward to achieve those results. Finally, a small reference to the question of stability. That's good for me. There are several ways to inject stability into the system. But if we think we can have a system aside from what happens in the economy as a whole, I think we're not right. And what happened in 2009 is that tax collection has fallen throughout Spain, for the autonomous communities, for the central state and for all, but a totally spectacular fall. And then there were some forecasting errors that affected more autonomous communities -- actually, we also have to recognize it that way -- but the fall was total for all public administrations. And we can't stand aside, we can try to alleviate this. But you have to tell me: these are the mechanisms, the instruments that look good to me. What do we believe? A fund that calls Americans for rainy days, where communities have to set aside some of the resources at times when the cycle is high in order to meet those needs? Do we do this for all communities? Do we introduce as a system of community financing any tax instruments that are more stable to the cycle? What happens to you? Well, that's what we want you to tell us. It's good stability, but it's a little more concrete. Let's move on from poetry to prose and tell us something else, because we need a realization of principles and values, that we may agree on that; on the other, we have to discuss it, because the devil is in the details. Thank you very much
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u168	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u169	Thank you again, Mr. President. Principles and values, we agree — enough is —; the devil is in the details. A small reference also to my previous intervention, when we were talking about, if something teaches us this whole stage, we have to learn certain lessons. In 2009, when the new model was set up, how often have other autonomous communities been criticized in a hurry to negotiate in times of change and not stability? He also gave us this model that we just commented on. Why? Because the bases that have been negotiated and the distribution variables must be adjusted as closely as possible to the actual variables. It didn't happen that way. You were making an excursion about quantification. I want you to also figure out a little bit about what it means to say we're going to have 11,600 million more euros. You called it -- in an educated way -- a forecast error. I really prefer to stay still in the tone that we're discussing right now, and I think we have much more in common than it seems. What would be really worrying is that it was not a forecast error, but that there had already been certain data that would lead to the result, if it were to speak of 11,600 million euros, which then the result was -20% about the starting situation we had at that time. And, above all, what we also learn from the past is that we have to negotiate in terms of multilaterality, never again the bilaterality that we had at that time. I believe, in an honest way, that since the Autonomous Community, in a noble way too, we have contributed to that working group, within the Tax and Financial Policy Council, to put the evasive ones detected by us, and also, in an incipient way — or not so incipient — which are, in our view, the factors that need to be corrected, and that there is a lot to be changed over the current system. That's where I'm going to stop a little more, because, really, what do we expect from the system review? I'm going to stick to six points again -- I don't know if it's going to satisfy its concretion, but it's more than principle, it's something else. I think there's a very clear formulation in the first of them when I tell you clearly that what we expect is the adequacy of the global financial allocation. To what? To the competence that we have of the autonomous communities or that we lend. What am I talking about? I'm talking about the need to review the vertical dimension. That's absolutely clear! I think it's pretty clear. If that's what you have to put in exact numbers, let me say right now, given multilaterality, it would even be a little silly for me to start giving some figures. But what we want is even horizontal sharing. Why? Because we have to adjust the weight of the public service guarantee fund to every spending policy, it's a real weight, which is totally different from what was in it. But it is also necessary to update the weighting of the different variables. And that's why it's so important, because of adjusting weight and weighting, when we talk about what health means, that in Galicia it's already more than 41-42% of the expenditure we have in our Community, if you want more figures. That's the point. And also the dependency, which we've talked about. Social issues, too, but not exclusively. Indeed, there are services — which I have told you very clearly before — that they have a direct correlation, but for the Autonomous Community it is so important — that you were talking about justice — and I can also tell you about twenty thousand things that may exist, from the economic sectors as the sea, the agriculture, etc., etc., that they are also as important to us as any of the public services when we speak in those terms and they also present a rigidity down there, especially in their component of current spending. Thirdly, we must make it clear that it is a system that shows that it needs that dynamic evolution because of the greatest current expenditure we have — as I have just said —. And we need the model to show resilience. But what is resilience at the end? The system that we create and which is the vigilante right now. In the face of adversity, he has no mechanisms to address that adversity. How changes in GDP are moving to change in our income of -20%? We have to be able to do that. If I had the magic stick, a commission of experts would no longer be created, I suppose we'd all be here... basically not ask me that. Let's say that among all of us we have to confluence in these areas. As well as simplification of the system. The system is that it's very wrong in its fund structure, it's counterproductive some of them and it gives us results that weren't the expected ones or, at least, as formulated at the moment at that famous powerpoint. But also what we have to say clearly is that we have to ask for fiscal co-responsibility. What's the point of having a system going through the back door or are we blowing up? But always respecting the development of an autonomous taxation, because ultimately the important thing is that in that fiscal co-responsibility, with several ways to get there, there is someone who is coming in a very clear way over the past eight years, completely fulfilling our commitments. But that's also what gives us an extra, we don't have any negotiating emergencies. And that's what will allow us to be firm, hard in negotiation, but noble and loyal, because we don't have that urgency, as if they have other autonomous communities. But we also demand institutional loyalty. We know that there are measures that have been taken by the various governments of Spain which have an impact on our Autonomous Community; we must have these mechanisms to correct these situations. So our strategy is very clear: it will be guided by loyalty and firmness. We are loyal and we will be firm, as I told you, also in the negotiation, which I think we have just started in a noble way. They don't ask for certain conclusions to reach the corollary of those 11,600s...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u170	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u171	...that in the end were less I don't know how many. Please don't play with the numbers. Galicia is solvent, Your Honor. So I think that's why our emergency is getting really tired, which is what allows us to be strong among all right now and throughout this 2017 exercise. With this position and with the determination of the German Government we will continue to work throughout this 2017 to deal with that system of sufficient, stable and sustainable funding. We will continue to work, reporting to this Parliament on the progress of negotiations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u173	...looking for consensus. For what? To maintain a country position, which is the most important thing for our citizens' spending needs to be sufficiently covered just as anywhere else in Spain. That's our intention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u174	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez and Mr. Paula Quinteiro Araújo, from G.P. of In Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to the milk sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u175	Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u176	Good morning. Milk is the main product of Galician agriculture, both in economic and social terms and from a territorial point of view. Dairy farms bring almost 45% of the value of production, 44% of the occupied land and a third of the agricultural area. Milk production reaches a leadership position in the Spanish ensemble by achieving 39% of the volume, highlighting also in Europe with the eleventh position. The rise in the prices of fertilizers, thinks and fuels since 2007 has not been associated with a similar rise in the price of the product, and this imbalance is causing heavy losses, debt and a higher rate of closure on farms. In the case of milk, Galicia has been able to preserve, despite the crisis, its national leadership in quantity, because today we produce more milk than ever — nearly 16% more than in the last five years — and, most importantly, not only in quantity but in quality. On the other hand, the sector is seen and is still limited in the field of processing and marketing, with effects on the income of the livestock and the livestock that have neither been nor been alien, as much as a slight rise is being perceived. Mr President said in the investment debate that for a long time in this House we all agreed that the only way out was to strengthen our dairy sector, with more union of producers and producers and with more industry, that in the last year three major projects saw light in Galicia, opening for the first time a set of expectations for a sector that has been anchored for too long and without renewed impulses. The first, the decision to install in Curtis a milk processing plant capable of attracting nearly 1 out of every 4 liters produced today in Galicia. The expansion of the cheese processing plant in Vilalba, with the expectation of increasing its production, which today consumes about 4% of the total milk we produce in the country. The third, the recent merger of three cooperatives, which is to group 3,600 gloves and geese, which produce 15% of the total Greek milk. In summary, Mr Feijó commented on three initiatives which, along with others, will, however, absorb about 50% of the dairy production in Galicia and which will be translated into the livestock that depend on more stability and — he expected — which also in better prices and in a more hopeful future. From In Marea, it seems to us that many of these industrial projects that are being presented are not bad, but they present some doubts, so we believe it would be important, apart from the data that approach us to companies, and it is essential that there are guarantees of payment of milk at a sustainable price that cover the costs of production and an external audit of all these projects that opt for important help from the Galician Board to prevent more people from losing money, as has happened in many other well-known cases. The fact is that in Galicia a total of 524 dairy farms were lost between January and November of last year — it will be lacking to know the December data — until a total of 8,554 producers and producers, compared to the 9,078 we started the year. The Greek farms lost a quarter of their cows in ten years. These figures cannot be applied solely to retirements, but they show the absence of generational relief and the dismantling of small holdings. The closures of farms are aggravated by the intense deforestation process recorded in recent decades, in which the cessation of milk production has become a majority of cases of abandonment of agricultural activity due to lack of development of other productions. And it resulted, from the abandonment, in the forest plantations of much of these lands. In this way, fires are increasing as well as territorial imbalances and demographic backwardness in rural areas. In eminently stocked villages, villages and villages that are left without cows are also growing with fewer people, in the case of the central area of the country, that is, within the province of Coruña, in the center and south of Lugo and north of Ourense. The municipalities that most population are losing percent are also the ones that in absolute numbers more cattle heads have stopped having. With the elimination of quotas, the separation and guarantee of the milk collection that previously existed in practice by being controlled by production and being lower than the demand of industries, in advance, industries, may select the owners and the owners to whom milk is collected according to their collection costs. The livestock sector has been weakened by the lack of measures that should have been taken, at least, since 2008, when the quota elimination calendar was set. Since then, nearly 5,000 farms have been closed in Galicia. Despite the rise of the price of milk to 29.7 cents the liter in November, it still remains the lowest in Spain. Galicia continues to be the only autonomy in which the gainers and the gainers charge less than 30 cents for the liter of their milk. It's far from the 34.2 cents that the producers of Rioxa receive, the highest price of the peninsula. In this way, our country's milk is located at one of the lowest levels of the decade, far from the 38 cents that were paid in October 2013. This difference with respect to production costs is having an impact on the indebtedness of many of the Greek farms. One of the causes of this problem is the imposition of unfair business practices by some distribution groups in the face of the passivity of the authorities, which should apply the Competition Act, since these practices lead to lower prices. In fact, today there are more than 600 farms in Galicia that charge less than 22 cents a litre. There are serious deficiencies in the milk chain, between producers and producers, industries and distributors and distributors, as it presents significant imbalances in the trading capacity and price transmission, with a dominant position of the large distribution, which uses milk at low prices as a product claim to attract consumers to their establishments, causing a trivialization of the product at low prices and margins of industry and production. Overcoming this situation requires a firmer position on the part of administrations in the control and development of the dairy agreement and the law on the transparency of the food chain, with very little application in reality. We must take the appropriate measures to intervene in the milk chain and ensure the future of the milk sector by paying producers a price that is sustainable for milk. That is, that at least reaches 30 cents per litre, which would ensure that its production costs are met. We had to transfer to the central government the proposal to set minimum benchmarks for the price of milk, as other countries of the European Economic Community have already done; to take measures necessary to support producers and producers of milk and to slow down the pace of closures of farms, which is affecting the depopulation of rural areas in the face of lack of prospects. For that, a strategic plan must be put in place for the dairy chain set, as they did in other countries before the quota system was dismantled. In the face of all this, the questions that we bring to the Councillor's inquiry are: what measures are you implementing the Galician Union to deal with the serious crisis that our sector is experiencing? We want to know if you've been directed to the Food Control Agency to find out about the results of the research of the farms that are receiving the lowest prices and what data they've reported to you. And in the case of producer people, and considering that the prices they are paying to farms are far below the production costs calculated by the Ministry, what are the actions that the Council itself is taking forward to ensure that prices are not unilaterally imposed by industry and that they are not abusive? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u177	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Reply by the Rural Media Adviser
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u178	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rodríguez, I've been listening carefully, as it couldn't be otherwise, just as I've been reading carefully the document you recorded in November. And I wanted to do a couple of punctuations referring to the document that you signed on your day, which is quite true that there is a part that you didn't say but that I would like to introduce you publicly, because I understand that there are a couple of errors that I would like to point out. As for the argument and the text that you recorded on your own day, they said that in some European Union countries they took advantage of incentives for voluntary reductions in production to increase and gain market share at the expense of other countries' farms, as was our case, for example. Here I have to answer them, more than anything, so that we all have the same information. Because the information I'm going to transfer to them is official information. Today the productions of the European Union's countries are unknown in the reduction period, you know that this was a decree of September and that came into force in October, November, December and therefore January. The official data we have today is until November, and so until next month's 5 we won't have the December. With which, that statement you made has no official basis, first of all. What we do know is the evolution, the evolution of the different countries of the European Union from January to November 2016. And compared to the production of the previous year, I have to tell you that in Spain it was positive. In the European Union it was positive, reaching an increase of 0.70%; and in the case of Galicia, the increase of production from January to November, in relation to the previous year, is 0.77%. It is true that there are other countries within the European Union that have declined, they have experienced that decline in production, as is the case with Germany. And not only the case of Germany, but also Britain, or the case of France, which has reached the indexes, in terms of the year, of -2.1%. There are also other countries — more than anything to contextualize it worldwide, because I believe it is necessary — in which the lowest value has been achieved in recent years, as far as production is concerned. And in this sense, we have the case of New Zealand, as we can have the case of Austria. Of these two cases, the latter is the lowest in nine years, and the latter has the lowest in three years. That's not happening in Spain, and that's not happening in Galicia. This decline in production has actually been beneficial to our sales abroad, along with various studies, such as that of the United States, where they have made that research to be known, which is what we have to continue to sink in Galicia and Spain, so that butter is replaced by butter, and from there there is a very important draw and therefore substantially increases what are exports to this country. They also referred to the text that you recorded a continued drop in prices — you said in this intervention. It wasn't a good year, it wasn't a good year after milk chops disappeared. But I have to say this is the best month, the month of November, in which it goes from year to year; if the month of July was what hit the lowest prices, from the month of July to the present time the increase was 3 cents. Well, we can't be satisfied with that price, because we're, like you said, 29.7 cents. And so, if we have also done a study on the regions -- and here I have to do another point, because I was saying that we were in the eleventh place, and not, Galicia is in the ninth place as a region where Europe and the regions of Europe are concerned -- we have to check that in those regions that are most produced is not where milk is paid most. And why? Well, because, like in Galicia, you've determined a path, a path that's changing right now, which is liquid milk, which, as you all know, Galicia produces, but Galicia does not manage to consume 8% of what it's producing, because it produces about 40% at the national level. Well, given all this contextualization, and after saying that the situation is improving, that it will continue to improve in the next few months, not only are we going to have to talk about prices, but we're going to have to go deep, change in all directions, and therefore also talk about that part that is capable of being competitive and therefore talking about margins. It has to be said that, if we were to compare the month of November to the month of July, which was the most dramatic, we would say that at that time the gainers who paid over the 29 cents were six percent, compared to the gainers who now charge over the 29.7 cents, which are in 3,043, which is going to be 35 percent of our winners. I told them that this is no satisfaction, but if it's true that we start a path, a path that collapsed at a given time when the quotas disappeared and the livestock began to produce, but that wasn't even with consumption, among other topics that I'll talk about next. And there's a very important term in what I totally agree with you, and what we have to go through throughout this first quarter, which is about sustainability. That is to say, in that package and in that dairy agreement, there is something to develop, such as sustainability and therefore the margin of benefits for an exploitation to be viable or not viable. What did the Galician Union do? First, indeed, to support business groups that are interested in setting up in Galicia, the transformation industries, with an end, and that end is to achieve greater added value. I said the president, and you would remember — and there was the data given, just like the data coming out and being public through the DOG every time we give help — that, within these aids, we bet on the company from Greece and we bet on the company that is not from Galicia is installed in Galicia and will therefore transform our product. And we put it next to having the milk package, which still needs to be developed. We do it, in addition, through the decree of assignment of prices. I mean, even more clearly, we know the autonomous communities not only how they sell milk to the industries, but what's the margin that's left with the distribution. And on that line, Galicia will be powerful and will require the Ministry that we have these data from the autonomous communities and then try to try, not to, but to act accordingly and therefore enforce the law. It was one before and one after last year, that of the number of applications from industries to settle in relation to the dairy sector that were interested in Galicia, a total of 59 were approved. And I believe that if they do, and the relevant audits will be done, so that eventually the resources will reach what is the productive field, which is the donor. And this year we keep betting, and in fact, the new line has already been taken, with a 60% increase. Ends the deadline on 31st of this month. We have again prioritized what is the milk field and again they bet the industries for setting up in Galicia. We work together with the cooperatives for fusion, and the transformation of a second degree, always according to all of them, always with the support of those who have to decide, who are the owners themselves, and make cooperatives of a second degree, merge those cooperatives. They'll be stronger, stronger and, therefore, the Administration will be next to them. It's the case of CLUN but it's also the case of a very important bet that just made the Coreber cooperative with Lemos, opting for the purchase of a very good installation and becoming them already what we can call a third large group at Galicia level. There, next to them will be the Union of Galicia, and will be the Councillorium of the Rural Environment. We do continuous controls to avoid trivialization of prices. I believe that, along with the Industry Council, the inspectors are always where they have to be, apart from answering each of the complaints that they send to us. And we're doing it. We bet on quality, no doubt, and we do it through differentiated brands, such as "100% gaga". We have just signed with LIGAL, with the laboratory from which we can boast not only at Spain level, but also at Europe level, to give it stability over the next four years, 1.8 million euros to be able to achieve 1.5... — I don't remember what they call — milk analyses; so let's see what evolution is. And we can assume that we have the best sanitary conditions, no doubt. We can also assume that we are moving forward in something fundamental, which is what the industry is asking for for for the processed product, which is fat, but also protein.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u180	This is strengthening our dairy sector. As far as specific aids were concerned, there was the Council of Galicia at the most delicate times, with up to 3 million euros, and with good and grateful news: of these 3 million euros that we made available to the owners — and not because we wanted to divert them but because there were no more requests — we had to help for an amount of 1.7 million euros. That means that the dairy sector is becoming more and more professional. And that's what we're saying that farms are becoming more and more indebted and, therefore, they have to close.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u181	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u182	Well, there's data that they believe that's not quite true.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u183	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Rodríguez Estévez's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u184	Well, from En Marea, we've noticed that the measures developed so far by the Rural Council are insufficient; some even if we are ineffective, aren't they? And the voluntary decline of production, an absolute fiasco, because surpluses have occurred from other autonomous communities while in Galicia industries threaten not to collect and stop producing more, while they are crushing our market with milk from other Community countries. It should be remembered that the technical and economic results available by the Map for Galicia were the production costs in 43 cents, and in the analysis of the milk value chain charged to the Interprofessional Lactea, Inlac, published last year in 2016, the production costs were between 33 cents and 39. The purchase price was made through the unilateral imposition of prices by industry, abusing its dominant position on producers. The Administration must ensure compliance with the applicable legality and end these abusive practices, ensure a sustainable margin for producers with the mandatory application of formulas and target indices that secure this margin; and guarantee of compliance, we insist on the need to apply public mediation in dairy contracts and to ensure that the rights of producers are guaranteed. We need to be made by this council, a shock plan in the farms that have the lowest prices. Hundreds of farms give milk to first buyers, some of the cooperative base, who are paying far below the average remuneration on the market for milk of these characteristics; sometimes even bearing defaults. Why does the Council not put in place a shock plan with the appropriate measures to act on these factors that are affecting each case, carrying out a solvency analysis of these projects and helping to restore producers to other industries, supporting feasibility plans and providing specific support from affected farms, etc.? We believe that it is necessary to guarantee the collection of milk on all farms, with a reference of guaranteed volumes and at a minimum price according to a chain of values that is sustainable for all these farms. We must defend the obligation to label the origin of milk in the container so that consumers and consumers can choose the origin of the milk they are consuming. Official veterinarians can be incorporated into factories to reinforce the public follow-up of all applicable legislation in the different fields, in order to avoid fraud of companies buying milk at milk prices and subsequently sell as liquid milk; aid lines for dairy processing projects that generate added value, to allow higher remuneration in the milk in origin, differentiated products such as eco-friendly milk and from cows fed in extended pastures, yogurt and cheese from which their manufacture is based on fresh fermented milk and not on milk powder, et cetera, which cover the quality demands of consumers with higher added value, faithfulisation of milk consumption produced in Galicia, our country, etc.; the immediate implementation of a programme which is objective and measurable to increase the agricultural area of farms, reducing their level of dependence, support for the reduction of consumption of milk produced in Galicia, our country, etc., a higher level of use, and greater use. I said before that between the years 2003 and 2015 the prices of thought rose by more than 60%, the fertilizers by 62%, the energy by 69%, which seems to continue. So, we appreciate from En Marea that you can be taking action from your advice, but those 3 million euros that increased last year for these farms we think they're not enough. Because last year 600 farms were closed all over the country, and today there are producers and producers who are charging the milk at 22 cents. Maybe, about these people, it's about which we have to act, not about the big cooperatives, which are the ones we have to control most so they don't abuse these producers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u186	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mr. Rodríguez, we were talking about what I was putting on the table at the Conseilerie do Medio Rural and, therefore, the Council of Galicia with an end. That is to continue to fight for our Greek countryside, which is 84.5% of our territory and therefore for a sector that vertebrates, as is the dairy sector. I agree on several things with you. And there are many in which, of course, I can't agree, because sometimes the image is tremendously black and sometimes it's a dream that we all would like to get but that's not so easy. On the one hand, I agree, and so we did. In other words, through the 2014-2020 RDP it is opted for aid to support the implementation of more extensive production methods. It has been opted through the RDP for aid for exploitation in areas with natural limitations, those areas that are where the most depopulation is happening and where, of course, the more difficult the farms have it; among other causes because they are more isolated. As far as AICA's investigation is concerned, of course last year an intensive investigation was made and this council was transferred to it. And within the data that have been transferred, they will be introduced as risk criteria for the different analyses that take place throughout 2017. Again, and as I said earlier, and although I could opt to decrease production, in the case of Galicia from January to November it increased in relation to the previous year by 0.77%. And the average national level is 0.70%. That means they close some farms, of course. We're at 6%, which is the national average. But it keeps increasing production. Here's a fact that we can't discuss, which is a new part of the history in rural Galicia: that the farms are being resizing. It's an unstoppable phenomenon. That doesn't mean that the Galician Union and the Rural Council will set aside small farms, which are also a priority in our Greek countryside. But the trend, Mr. Rodríguez, is another one, and that tendency the Council must also support it. We have to stop talking just about farms, because they are real industries, and these real industries need the necessary volume. He said earlier that there was a struggle for those gainers, indeed, the small gainers, who are receiving the lowest prices. And he gave him a data. That figure was that 3,500 farms already charge over 29.7 cents. However, there are a number of farms, small farms, where delivery is usually made to those first buyers. I don't doubt that it's taken many years to regulate them, but they're going to be regular, because it couldn't be any other way. Those are the ones who are receiving lower prices. If we were to differentiate between the collection of industry, if we were to differentiate between the collection of these large cooperatives — which I cannot agree with you there — from cooperativeism is part of the glove, and therefore of the large cooperatives, and I understand that there are no bad cooperatives in Galicia but quite the opposite, and the gain is part of both these benefits and prejudices — if we are able to go along that path and differentiate ourselves from the first buyers, the average price would be above the national average. That's reality, but I have to see -- and not because I want to see it like that -- because I'm very realistic, by who I am and where I come from -- that the future is encouraging. And it's encouraging from the moment that for the first time a greater number of young people are decided to opt for rural development. It was 618 boys who are going to join this year. Of these 618 young people, over 50% have higher education, and of these 618 young people, more than 50% choose the dairy sector. And they do it, in addition, with plans of viability that believe that they will give way for them to live decently. They can live dignifiedly like those farms that have also received help — at the end it was 60 million euros — and that they choose to modernize their holdings with an end, and that end is that they are more competitive. We are in a totally different context, a context in which, if we evaluate it, we can say that today we have more than 1,585 civil societies. In these more than 1,585 civil companies there are 18% of the producers and 32% of that production. That means people choose to group together, to regroup, to an end, and that goal is to have better quality of life. But this is also the year in which there are more limited societies, reaching a number never reached since 1990, which is the 90 limited societies. And he's also still opting for cooperativeism.'
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u188	I mean, these are situations that we consider encouraging. And we'll continue to work on three fundamental issues, no doubt: greater transparency in what the value chain is; requirement for that information to reach autonomous communities and we can make the necessary determinations, regulate the figure of the first buyers, and continue to insist on a fundamental part for our owners, and that fundamental part is to make available to them the necessary land. Thank you very much and good afternoon
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u189	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until five minus four, 16.45.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u190	We resume the session with the sixth item on the agenda, which corresponds to the question to the Government. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. We begin with the accumulated debate on the following questions: Question by D. Antón Sánchez García, from G.P. of En Marea on action measures in relation to the port of the Coruña Question by Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia regarding the realization of management in front of Ports of the State and the Ministry of Development to avoid the push of the harbour land in which are situated Solana and the Hotel Finisterre in the city of Coruña Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the opinion of the Council of Galicia regarding the need to ensure by the Harbour Authority of the Coruña, Ports of the State and the Town Hall of the Coruña, the conjugation of the use and public use of port land with the economic and social viability of the port
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u191	To put the questions — I have said them cumulatively — Mr Sánchez has the first word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u192	The first question I wanted to ask is whether Mrs. Beatriz Mato had an inescapable appointment or whether she just didn't want to be able to answer anything that had to be answered by the Environmental Adviser, members of the Board of Directors of the Port Authority of the Crown. It's the first very significant news that Mrs Mato doesn't come to answer these questions. But we'll formulate it the same way. There is a debate in the Coruña between those who defend the future of the public use of the land of the Harbour Authority of Solana, the Hotel Finisterre and also the Battery Calvo Sotelo, that is, the coastal border of the Coruña, and those who, with the president of the Harbour Authority in front, with Mrs. Beatriz Mato supporting and with the People's Party supporting, defend to do speculative business with them. I say this with the support of the Galician and the People's Party, because the Environment Adviser, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, voted in favour of the proposal to reopen the Solana and Hotel Finisterre. The pretext they use for this privatization of land earned at sea, and which should be of the citizenship of the Crown, is the economic-financial situation of the Harbour Authority, but it's only a pretext, and a false pretext. While it is true that Mr. Losada's management in front of the Harbour Authority is bad and has significantly worsened the economic situation of the Harbour Authority since his arrival; that since his arrival he has spent the result of exploitation from 17.6 million euros to only 1.28 euros, and that since 2012 the port of Coruña has had a net negative result, the explanation is precisely a mismanagement of the port traffic, the occupation of the outer port, the attached and complementary services, etc., and the solution should be that: improving that management, renegotiating debt, improving traffic, occupation, etc. It's not true, either, that by selling these land if it's going to solve that situation, it's a pretext for doing speculative business. The president of the Harbour Authority, in a shameful performance, acted behind the Town Hall and behind the Board itself, negotiating with the current concessionaire of the land of Solana and the Hotel Finisterre without even giving notice to the Board of Directors of these negotiations, even agreeing to the participation of the Council in the posse. Only that reason, in addition to his evil management, justifies that Junta ceases this man, Mr. Enrique Losada, for his institutional disloyalty and disloyalty with the city of Coruña, which he should also serve.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u193	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u194	On which side is it — I have to put the question, if I may, Mr President —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u195	Thank you. No, no, it's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u196	Which side are you on? Do you think about rectification? You think you're on the side of the public authorities or you think you're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u197	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. You know what mechanics is like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u198	I know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u199	It's the same for all of us. There's no... Mr. Díaz Villoslada, please, your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u200	Good afternoon. The plenary session of the Council of the Crown, held on 9 January, presented the motion — on the initiative of the Socialist Municipal Group and mostly supported by the plenary — for the defence of the public ownership of the spaces of Solana and Finisterre. The decision of the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority of 22 December, without prejudice to the reply by the Councillor of the Sea — it would not be, as it was previously stated, that the Environment Adviser himself, present in the Board of the Harbour Authority of 22 December, was in this Chamber — to auction Solana and the Hotel Finisterre and not accept the municipal offer by the lands of the Sports Complex, I assumed an institutional disarray of rare precedents in the city and a very serious decision in which it refers precisely to the city of Coruña. The action of the president of Portos, the Harbour Authority, Mr Losada, and the Board of Directors itself, with Mrs Mato at the front, decided clearly to the urgent and final privatisation of the land occupied both by the hotel and the annexed sports facilities, was evidenced in the announced negotiations of the people voice with the real estate company Rio Mero in the middle of October, two months before the deadline granted by the Harbour Authority itself to the Town Hall to send an economic offer. Negotiations, on the other hand, prior to the announcement of a public alliance procedure by auction, which at least really attracts attention. Indeed, the construction of the outer port of the Coruña at tip of Langosteira was approached with state financing, with a loan from the EIB and, according to the agreement signed in 2004, with the arrival of the Harbour Authority through the urbanization of the docks of the inland port, once freed from port uses. It is clear that the economic, social, urban and business conditions of the moment of the signing of that agreement do not correspond to the current ones, and it is therefore essential — this municipal motion — to reshape these agreements and to achieve an approach that benefits the city, first of all, to allow the final works of the port to be carried out and which assumes the debts of the said investment. Obviously, it's not about questioning the outer port, as it might now make us think of the question that the People's Party is going to pose to us, but the Coruña port cannot act from behind the city, with its needs, is part of the city. And it is therefore essential to reconcile the economic needs of the Harbour Authority and the legitimate rights of the city. The privatization of Solana and the hotel seemed to be planned and prepared for this time, as we had the opportunity to analyze the treatment of urban planning approvals. And I'm going straight to the formulation of the question: Is the German Government going to head to Ports of State and Ministry of Development to avoid auctioning port land where Solana and Hotel Finisterre are located? Let's hope that the meeting they've organized with the president of State Ports for this Friday 27th, which looks like they're doing a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u201	Thank you, Mr. Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u202	...amends the People's Party on the Crown...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u203	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. The question is now put by Mr Fernández Prado of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u204	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. He's probably starting to make a reference to words I just heard, but, Mr. Villoslada, they've left socialist governments. The agreement on land disposal is 2004 signed by a mayor and a socialist minister. In addition, in 2010 they were incorporate—because in the original agreement they were not—Solana and Finisterre were required to authorize the credit, being a German president of Ports of the State and a German minister, both socialists. [[Applause]] So, if someone organized and ordered this sale, it was the Socialist Party, demanding it at the convention. Secondly, it also seems strange to ask In Marea, because if Solana is no longer municipal, it is clearly due to the incapacity and inoperation of the current government of the Marea in the Coruña, which began by saying in a luxury hotel in Madrid that the external port of the Coruña was equal to Castellón airport, and so we ended up throwing stones at the large infrastructures of general interest in the Coruña. But look, let's remember, if you'll allow me as a background, Counselor. In April — at the end of March — the president of Ports of the State told the mayor that he had planned to plant this plot. I give him three months, and not a word. When he takes the board of directors in May that pox, the Town Hall says: we are willing to buy it. You withdraw the agenda item from the council, proof of goodwill. Three months he had to say he didn't even go out, and when he started, he retreated. It takes him six months at the end of June to present the pox. Today, ten months later — ten months! — the posse continues unopened. It's still unopened, it's not lying, it's still not open today. And yet he was not able, it was not who, the mayor of the Crown to present a firm offer in ten months, because the only thing he did was to send a letter with no value and no legal value, as well as the reports of the Legal Counsel. That's why we asked this advisor. As I was saying, we had to organize a meeting from the People's Party because the mayor was still missing. This Friday we will have a meeting to try to reconcile that general interest to remain public and the commitments signed by previous socialist leaders. And that's why we ask the advisor the question he already knows, in view of the possibility of conjugating this use and public use, as well as we defend in the municipality, and the port land that can solve the real and economic needs of the port. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u205	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. After hearing Members put this question to me, I believe that the question which we are brought here today cannot be addressed without faithfully contextualizing the issue of the annexation of the land of Solana and Finisterre in its temporal and practical becoming. Without that, we can sin of contemplating only the latest part of the subject. And without that, we would fall into an obvious lack of elements of value. I say this, because this matter doesn't start in December last year, not even in May or June last year. The matter, as you have said, has roots in 2004, when it starts the decision to build the outer port of the Coruña at the Langoster point and continues with decisive step in 2009. In that year, the Port Authority's business plan collects that in 2011 EUR 30 million will be entered for the sale of assets. This plan was approved in July 2008, and at that time there was a forecast to reach 25 million euros by the Battery and Calvo Sotelo docks, and the remaining five million must therefore correspond to the complexes The Solana-Finisterre. So no one can be called to deceit in this matter by talking about business or trouble. And much less if we note that the sale of marked land had been addressed at a meeting held on 31 March 2016, and at which the mayor of the Crown himself, the president of the state ports and the president of the Harbour Authority were present. So we knew about it. Moving forward over time, this same theme took a step forward at the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority on May 16, when the municipal representative of the Crown expressed the interest of the Town Hall in buying the Solana Complex at its tax value. Understanding the Council's will, the point was removed from the agenda, to examine whether it was feasible to meet the request of the municipal authority. And in the following council, on June 30th, it was approved to give the Town Hall a six-month term to submit an application for the acquisition of the Solana area. So we have to talk about a maximum of eight years and a minimum of nine months to take steps forward in that possibility. We understand that this decision does not subtract the debate from its use, at least it does not subtract as much as it would already be subtracted at that time in the past years, not now. So if there was a thread in that thread, it started to develop in 2008. Even there are those who support -- we believe that seeing ghosts where they are not there -- that this has been an orchestrated process for years, even in response to urban changes. Any change has been supported by technical requirements and reports. It had to be that way, and so it was done. And that's referred to in a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. Not even if you hold any argument that you see in this sale the attempt to solve some mismanagement-trapped accounts, as Mr. Sánchez pointed out, since as a reference we can point out that the Coruña port has reached the second largest increase in its traffic accumulated during 2015, only behind Almería, and it leads to an increase of 18%, reaching 14 million tons, resuming the movements of the pre-crisis figures. Even the turnover reaching EUR 27.6 million is the largest in the history of the Harbour Authority. And if we go to Langosteira, we see traffic is rising, reaching the accumulated figure of 3 million tons this year by increasing traffic in that port by 50%, also counting on a forecast of growth by 2017. However, the Harbour Authority has a responsibility, and that is to find the best option of managing the docks and the spaces of its property. That objective is irrevocable, and this is indicated by the State Ports reports, and by the General State Intervention. We understand that, within this better management, it may be the proper conjugation of the use and public use of port land with the economic and social viability of the port. In this compatibility we are all, unequivocally, and we want to guarantee the defence of the public interest. So much so that we are the first valets of the request to the Harbour Authority of the Crown to maintain equal access opportunities to the property of the land of the Solana, and we know it will do so. Legality is a maximum that we must and we want to comply with everyone, so if things are to be done, especially administrative procedures, it is the management of public goods according to the best degree of efficiency and efficiency; and when I say all, I mean all with capitals: we all have to comply. I say this because, knowing of the municipal intention, we understand that, in order for Solana to be of public ownership, we have to present an offer, and that job is not our job. We do not say either that the documentation submitted as an offer is consistent, corroborates in that opinion who should ensure by the legality of the public proceedings of the port authority, the State's lawyer, and even so understand the entities participating in the port decisions. Except for the Town Hall, everyone voted in favour of this matter. Therefore, anyone who prevents direct adjudication to the Town Hall is neither the Harbour Authority, nor the State Ports, nor the Galician Union, nor the State Lawyer, is the lack of a firm offer. We believe that almost five months was a prudential fear of presenting it; additional two months would be enough time to remedy errors that occurred in the first communication. So, for it to be municipal title, there must be a municipal offer. Whoever does not present this offer in time, and especially in form, is not the Harbour Authority, that is a fact referred to by the State Counsel, and without that fact, little can be done. After that, talking about public interest is lawful. Defending public ownership without quoting that for this it has to intervene the Town Hall, it can call for deception, but it is lawful. But defending the budgetary viability and the jobs and wealth generation of the port, it's also lawful. Besides, we must not forget that it was also the public interest that led to the construction of the outer port of Punta Langosteira. Because public interest, at no cost estimated by its incalculable value, is also to remove the oil terminal from the middle of the Crown; and public interest is also to avoid, as far as possible, accidents like the Erkovich, the Urquiola or the Exeo, on the Coruña facade itself. That's why we must weigh all public interests, and each one must fulfill his duties. We therefore understand that a dialogue path is opened with Ports of the State and with the Harbour Authority that we believe should be taken advantage of. It may be a chance to make a mistake, and we hope it will. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u207	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u208	First a small parenthesis of Barrio Sesame. If the Harbour Authority agreement was July 30, 2016, and we're in January 2017, it's not 10 months, Mr. Fernández Prado, it's not 10 months. Moreover, when the reopening of the pox was voted in December, it didn't even wear out the deadline given by the agreement itself. So the one who raped and broke the board of directors' agreement was the president of the Harbour Authority and not the Government of the city of Coruña, who did make an offer. In such a case, who has become null and void all his decisions is the president of the Harbour Authority, who has negotiated behind the Board of Directors and has agreed a price for the participation of the River Mero real estate in the posse, and Mrs. Beatriz Mato voted in favour of this decision. We're not interested in his wounds. It's true that this comes from far behind. We're not interested in the fights between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, there are for everyone. You, in the 2012 General Plan, converted the land of Solana and the Finisterre hotel from public budget to private budget, preparing the land, of course, for privatization. And Counsellor, I have here the accounts and I see that there are 308 million euros in debt, and since 2012 the net result is negative. But if you're telling me that the bills are going well, then why sell some land that won't serve to match the bills; much less that the calculations dropped were in the middle of real estate bubbles, and now there's no such real estate bubbles; and that they're the most valuable land for the future of the city of Coruña and they're an opportunity to make a plan looking for public and general interest. So what's the problem? Why sell them? Why isn't there a solution for these lands to have municipal ownership and citizenship to decide what to do with those lands? Besides, I remind you that with symbolic value, land earned at sea, land usurped by citizenship. So, before they cut me off, what do you plan to do to secure the municipal ownership of these lands?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u209	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Replica, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u210	Counsellor, as I said in the formulation of my question, we at all — can't take them to any group, I believe, nor to the citizens of the Crown, to that field — question the need for the outer port of Punta Langosteira. Another issue is the highly questionable efficiency of the president of the Harbour Authority. And my attention is drawn to the fact that in the 8th Fisheries Commission, the President of Galicia told us that the failure to install the logistics base of Pemex, which meant an increase of 20% of traffic and 15% of revenue in tariffs, has no impact on the viability plan, with an estimated investment of about EUR 58 million. Of course, if we're trying to compensate for these abuses in the predictions of space occupation with the use — and I say without demagogy — of public spaces that are currently unaffected, because it's a little peculiar way to try to alleviate some serious forecasting errors in Punta Langosteira space occupations, which, as I say, at no time do we put on canvas and trial. What if we put on trial screen is all the action by both the representatives of the Galician Council of Ministers, not respecting the time limits granted to the Council, and the performance by the People's Party in the Coruña, on this subject. And as well as the previous appearance in 2012, precisely you, Mr. Martín Fernández Prado, conceler of Urbanism, were made the private catalogue of that space. In this sense, article 44 of the State Ports Act is clear, when there is a municipal initiative and when it is possible that free assignment of damaged spaces, it is absolutely possible to give rise to this transfer in favour of the Town Hall for public use, and not as they once said in the Coruña, that the citizen will not notice it because he is already having a private use. It seems to me that this should not be the speech that must be drawn up in the Coruña, but less ill that they realized and approved the motion put forward by the Socialist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Replica, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u212	Counsellor, allow me to explain the two months. The day the mayor of the Crown was told that he was going to take a nap on March 30, 10 months ago. It takes 10 months to say something. He had 3 months more than any other before, 3 months more. And in 10 months, today, the pox is still closed, it hasn't opened yet, and we're still not getting an offer from the Town Hall. Let me tell you something else. The agreement was voted on on the 22nd, and it was opened for eight days the miracle of presenting an offer to the Town Hall of the Crown. The decision is open for presentation. And I would like to clarify to you who vote in the council: not only the representatives of the Union, but also the captain of the sea, the union representatives, the representatives of the fishing and maritime activities, the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce are voting. They all agreed. Yes, of course, there's one who didn't, which he didn't do; which he had to deliver. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And let me clarify one last thing to Mr. Villoslada and you. This plot was unaffected in 1999. When the General Plan is dealt with, the report by the competent administration says: when it's heritage, it's not a public domain. Heritage can only be left in two ways: or private equipment, or to expropriate. Since there was no intention of expropriating a hotel, it remained as private equipment. And as the High Court of Justice of Galicia had said before a dispute filed by the BNG, it was well done legally and technically. And I think it's pretty well confirmed by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. In any case, we are also interested in that since you don't do that work the municipality, which is who has to do it, to see if at least with the help of the board, you can find a solution to prevent the lack of work and the lack of diligence of the Town Council of the Crown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u213	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u214	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Sanchez. Look, say what you're saying, there's only one key fact: Solana can't be dealt with directly to the Town Hall, so all the state attorney's reports say, General Intervention, the audit done. I don't know if 5 months are enough to present an offer, but what certainly cannot be possible is that someone who holds a municipal representation believes that by saying that he expresses his will to acquire it, that he has already fulfilled all the traffic, because from now on I, at best, have to say that I want to improve the shellfish in the province of Coruña, and by saying that, I have a budgetary credit in order to be able to develop the shellfish in the stream of Coruña. [[Murmurs.]] That's how things are done. [[Applause]] Look, I'm a generation of effort. I was taught that to pass an exam, I had to study. And that you had to study before the exam, not after the exam, because, perhaps, if you do things after the exam, it's suspended. Look, say what you want, I can only say one thing: you're the only one who attacked a fellow Government because it's part of an administrative board. He is not, because I suppose you well know what the organic structure of the Galician Union is, and the organizational structure of the Galician Union empowers the heads of the Council of the Sea to deal with the ports. Well, I'm the one who has to come to answer all those issues that have to do with ports, as happened in Commission 8th, when they also asked by Punta Langosteira, by Pemex, and the president of Ports of Galicia came to answer. That's right. And it wasn't just the Environment Councillor who voted in favour of it. They voted absolutely all the representatives, except the one who had to do a job he didn't do. Of course, I understand that it's much easier to paint a sign than to get to work, do some analysis, get the money, go there and say, I'm willing to give this. And he also says of the president of the Harbour Authority that he has no will, that we have to stop him. Look, it's the only one who's willing here to fix things. You paralyze the auction process, you're trying to get the port in front of you, it's the best result. After the port of Almería, it was the second best port of behaviour throughout the national territory. Others I don't know how they express that will. Because trying to help ports, the Harbour Authority, or trying to help the fishing sector by climbing the IBI from 0.60 to 1.30, I don't think it's the best way to help them. Actually, maybe others think so, that rising taxes will help the fishing sector. Well, we always understand that we are going to defend the port of the Coruña and the outer port of Langosteira, and we defend it like this, not like others, that — as the honourable Member of the People's Party said — they said quite clearly from a hotel in Madrid that the external port of Coruña was like the airport of Castellón; a port that is increasing in traffic; a port that will allow you to remove all the oil management from the city center, which will allow you to remove the pipeline from the city center. Ladies and gentlemen, could anyone understand the mayor of Bilbao against the outskirts of Bilbao? Could anyone understand that the mayor of Xixon was against the Gate of the Musel? No, this is the opposite. But we are in favour, and this will manifests itself with direct management of both the president of the Harbour Authority and the board of Galicia to get in touch with State ports to sit down and give the Council of the Crown a new opportunity to try to fix things, to make an offer. We understand that things have to be done and done. And this route has been established since 2004. Perhaps you were very small at that time, but here, in 2004, Galicia had experienced the accident of the Prestige, and were all the coastal councils affected by that sinking; and there was at that time a bet of the Central Government, of the Town Hall of the Horn, of the Council of Galicia, of deciding to make that outer port to prevent such events as the Urquiola, like the Erkowitz, or how the Exeo Sea could happen again, and that's why that investment was made. And in 2011, being Minister of Development a Greek, being president of Ports of the other Greek State, they asked the president of the Harbour Authority: "Tell us about all the assets you have to sell them, so that we can give you a credit to continue with those works," and that's where you're registered, and that's done. And that's why the president of the Harbour Authority has to comply with the commitments he has acquired. And within this commitment is to try to speak again to the mayor of the Coruña so that they will make a firm, determined, documented and with a budgetary support so that this will be good for all citizens of the Coruña, but also for the users of the outer port of Langosteira. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u215	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the realization by the Junta of Galicia of some management in front of the Government of Spain so that Renfe keeps the ticket sales service in all stations of our community
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u216	Question by Mrs Noela Blanco Rodríguez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u217	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. "The German railway has a long history that bleeds to injustice," these were words of a speech from Castelao in 1933 at the Congress of Deputies. So, this distinguished galego made a speech in which he criticized the twenty-four-year delay on the train line that joined Puebla of Sanabria, Ourense and The Carballiño; twenty-four years delay that he blamed the spelling, specifically The Padarnelo, and that in this case, on the arrival of the high speed, because they blame that plot between Taboadela and the city of Ourense; excuses to end up leaving an autonomous community and a province like the Urense. Eighty-four years later, the last news we've just received is that they're going to be practically deserted, which will become ghost stations, seven stations in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, of which four are located in the province of Ourense, two in Pontevedra and one in Lugo; stations where you'll stop selling tickets and providing information to travellers that pass there, which are approximately 200,000 a year, and to those who buy tickets, about 60,000. They're people who are going to get off the progress train. The people who live in this village are based on a train that has always brought wealth, that brings increased productivity and even employment, and that, above all, in a particularly aged population and a terrible demographic problem, such as the province of Ourense, in particular, and the south of Lugo as well, what is generating is stepping on population and avoiding, as far as possible, the few that remain on the market. Besides, some of these stations are real architectural jewels. And I'm talking, for example, about the Ribadavia station, which, as you have seen these days in the media, has jumped into the media because of the history of the Touza sisters — a historical fact of these sisters in my province from which we feel particularly proud — who have been able to save thousands of people from Nazism. Well, we understand, from the Socialist Group, that these stations are vital from a social, economic and, of course, also cultural point of view, not only from the province of Ourense, but also from the entire Autonomous Community of Galicia. And we wonder if this government, the Government of Galician Union — which always claims not to be militant of the People's Party, but to be militant of Galicia — has established contacts with the Government of Spain to be interested in this situation or even to mediate and prevent the closure or restriction of services at these stations. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u219	Thank you, President. Your Honor, of course, first of all, let me say that for the Greek Government the quality of railway services is of course a priority. You know we're talking about state competition, but we're following up on the transformations and changes that the railway sector is experiencing. And the goal is that these services continue to evolve at the pace of the really needs and demands of our neighbours. In that process of restructuring of the railway sector, which you said, what we need is where we have to frame what you said: the process of change and restructuring of the railway sector. At this point in time — the information we have — ADIF and the representatives of the workers are addressing the orderly transvase of the presenceal sales channel, of the stations that have staff exclusively dedicated to the sale of tickets, the larger ones, as can be the stations of the Coruña, Santiago, Vilagarcia, Pontevedra, Vigo or Lugo. So we're talking about the possibility that ADIF personnel had joined Renfe Travelers, so that the staff of the operator Renfe sell the tickets, which today is not the case, and for historical reasons of the split carried out in Renfe in 2015 in two, Renfe and ADIF. Regarding what you said about the seven stations you mentioned: four stations in Ourense province: The Carballin, Ribadavia — which you commented — The Street and the Boat; two stations in Pontevedra province: Round and Guilleri; and Sarria, in Lugo province, we're talking about ADIF Circulation staff, who has tasks related to line management, for example, needle changes. We're just talking about ADIF Circulation staff, who promptly makes information and sell tickets, even if it's not their main task. So we're talking about possible changes in functions, focusing on the railway sector's own tasks, and in no case less jobs. We, as Government, of course will watch for mobility and for mobility to be guaranteed. In the event that staff with mixed commitment to the sale of tickets ceases to perform these functions and if they are fully engaged in ADIF functions, I hope — and we claim — that there are reasonable alternatives to the user's direct sale on board the train, telephone, internet, mobile devices... that are already being done at most small stations in the Community and also in the entire state. So we're looking at the quality of the service and also the rights of the workers, who are being consensual with the representatives of the workers and ADIF. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u220	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u221	Thank you very much, President. I understand, Counsellor, that this is not a state competition, but, as in other cases and in other matters that we have discussed in this House, we, from the Socialist Group, have always said: in what happens within the territory of Galicia, even if it is a service of State competence, because there is a certain responsibility — let me at least let you tell it — moral and government also of the Unity of Galicia, since it is the territory over which it has competence, even though it is not about that service in particular. When you talk about dealing with the transvade order, that's not the information the Socialist Group has. We know a number of union complaints that are raising their voice to say that it's not just that they're going to reduce jobs, but that some of the workers who are in those small stations in the province are going to be overburdened. And allow me to tell you and make a few points. I, with all due respect, invite you to visit some of the Ourense province's train stations. Some of them are going to find that they can't even get through the door, because the door is closed and they have to turn around all over the station. In others you will encounter something so curious and as representative of the train stations as is that the clocks are broken, with which no time of departure or train entry is marked. And when you talk about the Internet, I invite you to come here, too, so that you all know once and for all what the reality is in some parts of Galicia. We're talking about a territory where the population is 65 years older than triple to under 16, that is, it's not people who are used to being with tablets all day or shopping on the Internet, or surfing the network, Counsellor. Moreover, I say more: there are areas in the province of Ourense -- many, even in these districts -- where there is not even as much coverage. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u223	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I have a personal interest — I don't know if the answer interests you — in this matter, of course, yes, and the information I have is that there is a process of dialogue between ADIF and workers' representatives, a process of dialogue that is not closed and whose objective is to improve services, to be more competitive, more efficient within the railway sector. Since then, what we understand is that the proposed change essentially consists in the proper sharing of functions between Renfe and ADIF. And of course we will pay special attention especially to the quality of the service — which I suppose you will share — and also guarantee the rights of the workers. We trust that this transformation will be with the greatest possible consensus between the company and workers and trade unions, because we are particularly talking about a public enterprise, and that is why we expect and hope that in this framework of dialogue the solutions will be the most appropriate in this regard, and — I insist — with dialogue and agreement between ADIF Circulation and the representatives of the workers. You were talking to me about the Internet, and I also talked about the sale of tickets on the way. Because I can give you an example that happens on the Atlantic axis. In the Atlantic axis the sale of tickets is only in the main stations, in the intermediate stations there is no sale of tickets in the offices themselves, but it is sold on the route of the Atlantic axis. We will continue, of course, permanently in contact with Renfe, as we will be throughout this process, we will be vigilant in ensuring the service. May the right solutions be given for the sale of tickets, of course — as you said — not only for children, who are used to new technologies, but also for older ones. Don't tell me that I don't bet on rural, I'd just be missing, I'm coming from rural, and there's the improvement of public transport services in rural. You don't have to take the train to all the nuclei, to 30,000 population entities, there are also other alternatives like demand transport, which is our bet on improving rural mobility. In any case, we appeal to the dialogue between the parties and hope that it will be resolved in the best way possible, that it is a quality service and that users have that service guaranteed. That's what we've been asking since Galician Union, that's what we've seen demanding Renfe and ADIF. In any case, we continue to focus — as I say — on improving services in general in Galicia, improvements in services in priority matters. You were talking at the beginning of the high speed. Of course, for us high speed is also an essential service, even if they are state competences. And within our responsibilities, too, like intermodal stations, the improvement of services. And of course I have no information -- as you say -- about closing stations and ghost stations; stations would be closed if the train hadn't stopped. But we're talking about the train for those stations. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u224	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr. Lago Peñas, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea on the situation of the labour market in Galicia in relation to the rest of Spain
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u225	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u226	Zygmunt Bauman let us write in his last book that the modalities of temporary recruitment are a ruthlessly exploiting mechanism. Citing here Bauman is appropriate not only because he is one of the brightest thinkers of recent times, to which we owe the concept of precariousness, not even because he died a few days ago, but because the fundamental reason is that Bauman was Polish. The IGE has just published a study on wages in which it reveals that Galicia is the most precariously employed territory of the whole European Union just behind the native land of Bauman, Poland. In fact, the study of the IGE says more: it says that Galicia has the third worst rate of unemployment in the whole of the European Union, only in front of Spain and Greece. He says we have the third worst rate of occupation throughout the European Union. But possibly the most striking of the report of the Galego Institute of Statistics is what they call temporality, and we give it the proper name: working precariousness. The IGE, counsel, says textually: "Today both Galicia and Spain are at the head of the ranking of countries with higher rates of temporality, only surpassed by Poland. In Galicia in 2015, it was 25.4%, with the Community average 14.1%". And he says more: "In Spain and Galicia, the rate of temporality has been on the rise for the last two years." The question is obvious: how does Junta explain that Galicia leads the lamentable ranking of job insecurity throughout the European Union? How does it explain that work insecurity continues to grow in this time of economic recovery? And above all, tell us what the Government is going to do to fight this scourge.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u227	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Lago, I think you need to bring the data here a little clearly. If you come to mind, perfect. But the rate at which it actually refers is a rate of temporality. Precautionary is a subjective element of itss that simply aims to qualify a target data, which is the rate of temporality. Just like the comparison — you know it perfectly, and you should move it this way — it's not from regions, it's a comparison of countries with Galicia. It's a fact that I think it's important to highlight, too. And, therefore, his analysis I regret that he did not have the right rigor. In any case, I should also move here that this data is 2015 and that therefore does not reflect all the improvements that logically occurred in the labour market in 2016, as it was. Because you know perfectly well that in 2016 17,000 more jobs were created, that indefinite contracts increased by about 10%, and that contracts for those under 30 years of age also increased by more than 15%. He also knows that this data reflects, and he did not say, an increase in the rate of timeliness both in Spain and in the European Union. And you know that difference between Galicia and Spain is reduced to only three tenths. And a punctuation: in the last two years -- now I'm going to nude -- you also know, as I said, that 7 out of 10 employees have an indefinite contract. So in the parliamentary debate, Mr Lago, it is not about looking for headlines. I think what to look for are solutions, and I think, in that sense, what I expected was a more objective contribution. In any case, in active employment policies, we have to keep working. Of course, in Galicia we're working for an indefinite contract. That indefinite contract also knows it has a growth path in the last three years. And, logically, that's why I've already said that there are the active policies and decisions taken by the Government. I can give you something that I think is important. And that's that 90% of all contracts funded by this government through recruitment aid are already undefined. We are promoting in active employment policies to indefinite recruitment. And if I asked about specific actions, I can move you that this year we will introduce a criterion, which is the rate of stability. We will consider whether companies really, in aid granted, have that rate of stability with a minimum so they can be eligible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u229	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Lago, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u230	Counsellor, the headlines don't give them to me, give them the IGE, the Galego Institute of Statistics. Again, both Galicia and Spain are at the head of the ranking of countries with higher rates of temporality, only surpassed by Poland. I read the IGE page textually, I don't give headlines. I'll give them the IGE, I'll read them. Second, there's no economic reason... because the councillor passed from the refill... but recognized that Galicia's work precariousness rate was above the Spanish average. He recognized it in tenths, what happens is that Spain is the world sub-ampling of job insecurity, and we overcome the world sub-ampling in tenths. Yes, but we have more precarious work than the Spanish average. How do you explain that? What is the reason for productive specialization in our country so that we are more precarious than other territories that have hospitality, which have tourism, which are Canary Islands, and so on? What's the reason, Counselor? And let me answer this last thing you said. Look, in the state and Galicia we've been delivering billions of euros to companies to make stable contracts, billions of euros. And the final result is that the precariousness not only doesn't go down, but increases. In that sense, Mr. Counsellor, we all know that this temporary recruitment is mostly fraudulent, because in the Spanish State there is the beginning of contractual causality. An indefinite job has to have a stable contract, and only a joint job can have a temporary contract. So it's impossible, impossible! that one in three people working in Galicia are working at a job...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u231	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u232	So -- and I end with this idea -- they subsidize less and pursue more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u233	No, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Lago. Thank you. [[Applause]] Mr. Counsellor's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u234	I regret that your group permanently wants to introduce concepts in this House that are typified into the Spanish legal order. And if so, if you understand that there are fraudulent attitudes, you should know what you have to do, and don't try to bring here a ethereal concept, without any basis, into your exposure. In any case, I insist that you speak of precariousness, but that's not what the report of the Galego Institute of Statistics says. The Galego Institute of Statistics speaks of a rate of temporality. Because if you want to talk about precariousness, I'd say, what do you think about the bias rate? That's precarious, too, Mr. Lago. Yeah, right? In this case, the difference between Galicia and the European Union and Spain is that Galicia has the lowest bias rate, five points from the European Union and one point from Spain. So I think you should measure that concept of precariousness very well, because, if you don't define it properly, logically, you take it to this kind of mistake, which I think you shouldn't make in this House. In any case, I remind you that today 7 out of every 10 employees in Galicia have an indefinite contract. But I insist even more: 2 out of every 3 workers, and you know it perfectly, they have an indefinite full-time contract. He also knows perfectly well that Galicia has more full-time employees than Spain and the European Union average. So, I sincerely believe that, simply, if you try to define precariousness with temporality, you are making a methodological error of first magnitude, impropriety — I say — in this House. In any case, we will continue to work to promote stable recruitment, that is our responsibility. We have to work on active employment policies. We're doing it. And we are introducing measures — as I have already transferred them — how to introduce the element of the stability rate for the granting of aid to companies. And logically we have to continue to sink, and for that we are going to promote a law of employment to precisely introduce all these elements into the law. And I believe, Mr. Lago, honestly, that I hope in the next debate to focus on ideas and not on partial readings of elements and statistics where what we're trying to qualify is something that is not in the methodology of the index itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u235	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Miguel Állado Filgueira and six other Members of the G.P. Popular, about the measures taken by the Galician Union to inform and train consumers and users about their concerns with the bill of light
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u236	Have the floor to Mrs. Novoa Churches
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u237	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, despite the insistent propaganda of the opposition, this government is not at the service of large electricity companies, mainly because for the Galician Union it is a priority objective to reduce electrical consumption in the administration itself, as the President-in-Office explained yesterday; savings up to 20% in both electricity and gas. So, low please, we do the electricians. Also because, since Galician union, in collaboration with Fegamp, it has been promoted on its day that the Town Councils complained about their bill of light. And besides, because last year's Measurements Act included two actions to force the companies to read the counters and bill for the consumed, also so that they don't raise the price of the counters. And yes, of course, you will tell me that they have been suspended by the Constitutional, but they will not say, as always, that we do not propose measures for consumers. And, of course, because the Galician Union, through the Galego Consumer Institute and the Directorate-General for Industry, is working on different lines to protect consumers' rights, ensuring the security of products that are available for sale, promoting information and counselling, and mediating conflicts between businesses and consumers. Because for this government, the protection of consumer rights in the field of electricity supply is a priority. Because the bill of light is a concern for many families. In the first nine months of 2016, the Instituto Galego de Consumo has processed more than 2,000 claims, of which about 60% have already been resolved favourably for the claimants. And, as President Feijóo has well said this morning, Junta, in the defense of the most vulnerable consumers, has been engaged in such aids as the social electric ticket since 2014, which has already benefited about 5,000 families; and also an agreement with the merchants who have already avoided the cutting of light by default around 800 homes. This is not exactly a sleepy government, as the opposition claims. But since we're not happy with the situation of the Greeks in relation to the bill of light, we believe that we must continue to push forward measures aimed at bringing up the keys so that consumers can save money in their electric receipt. So, and for all the above, I ask you, Counsellor, what is the Council doing in Galicia to inform and train consumers and users about their concerns with the bill of light? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Novoa, I thank you for bringing this issue here today for the debate in this House, because... it seems here, Mr President, that the opposition is interested in only part of the content of Parliament's agenda. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think that would probably have to check it out. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, in fact, information and training on aspects related to the effective protection of consumer rights is a concern to us all; above all, it concerns those most vulnerable groups. [[Applause]] I imagine the opposition knows perfectly the receipt of his bill of light, sure. But I recognize that, indeed, many of us here probably do not know what kind of contract we have, whether we are on the free market or whether we are on the regulated market, whether we can compensate or choose for time discrimination, or whether we pay more power than we need. And all those elements, ladies and gentlemen, are elements that are collected in the invoice receipt. And, therefore, a proper reading of that bill receipt we understand from the Government that it can be an element that is also very important for consumers to be able to save on their receipt. And that's why we decided on the part of the Government to launch a new campaign, "Give Light to Your Bill," which consisted essentially of transferring an understanding of your bill to consumers, informing them how you can reduce your spending and, above all, make a finger on savings and energy efficiency. This allowed you to be in 74 municipalities, it also allowed more than 3,000 people to be able to access information directly through the website; and all this so that you can better understand the bill and, above all, consumers could receive concrete recommendations to save on the receipt of light. I believe that this coordinated action between the Inega and the Galego Consumption Institute is an improvement in information, in the advice of consumers, and, above all, I say, that it enables them to have useful elements to save on their receipt, and always offering consumers and making them available to them both the INEGA, as well as the Instituto Energético de Galicia and the Instituto Galego de Consumption and Competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u240	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Novoa's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u241	Counsellor, I thank you for your intervention and for your clear explanation of this very important measure put in place by your advisor, "Give light to your bill", which will certainly facilitate your understanding of the bill and inform you about how to reduce spending through fundamental aspects, such as: electing the most suitable type of contract for each home, reviewing the contracted power or valuing time discrimination. This initiative is being disseminated through the municipalities, aware of the most common problems in their neighbours, and in which information campaigns will be made. Of course, it will also spread through social networks with a Facebook page called "Give Light to Your Bill." And I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, that for this government and also for this parliamentary group, electricity supply is a priority aspect, as it affects the economy of the Greek families; and also because their rights have, of course, to be defended constantly. I would therefore like, Mr. Counsellor, that in his second speech he would often explain to us more to us the important work he is doing since his advice, and, more specifically, through the Galician Institute of Consumption and Competition, in the area of claims related to the electricity bill of the Greek consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. Mr. Counsellor's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u243	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. I think the most important element is that the Greeks and the Greeks have to know that the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition is at their disposal, therefore, to address any doubt about any item in the receipt of their bills, so that at any given time they may actually, if their rights are violated, file a claim. I believe that this work of, firstly, information and, secondly, defence of rights is being developed by the Galego Institute of Consumption with great rigour and, above all, with great force. Because that information is allowing many consumers to actually know how to have room to save in their light receipt. I believe that there are three absolutely decisive elements: firstly, the power contracted; secondly, whether that contract is linked to the regulated market or to the price of the small consumer or whether it is liberalised; and thirdly, if it has time discrimination. And so with those three elements you can have a very important savings. That was the mission of the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition to transfer this information to citizens. We remain open to giving that information and, of course, as a second element, to act vigorously to defend the rights of citizens. And there, of course, the Galego Institute of Consumption, I think it's doing a really important job. It's 20,000 claims related to electricity, a fact that I think is sufficiently relevant. And about 80% of these claims have already been resolved favourably for the consumer. And that's what turns out that we've been opening since 2009 about 2,400 sanctioning files with that figure of 24 million euros by which electric companies were sanctioned both through the Galego Institute of Consumption and through the General Energy and Mines Directorate. I think that's the Government's job: first, to inform and transfer consumers how they can save money on their bills and, secondly, to act consistently in defence of their rights and, therefore, to any claim that can be transferred. If we add to this the initiatives we make through the Housing Plan so that consumers can have savings in housing, we will surely find the keys for consumers to have to face a lower cost and therefore a reasonable cost of energy consumption that each household has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u244	Thank you, Counselor. Ms. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the knowledge by the Government of Greek of the situation of discrimination due to gender and labour harassment that is suffering from a worker from a passenger transport company
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u245	Good afternoon, Counselor. Today from BNG we have to ask you about the work situation of a worker, Nélida Pisco, who is upstairs in the guest gallery. Nelida Pisco works as a bus driver in the company Hedegasa, concessionary company for regular passenger lines, collective transport and public school transport in Pontevedra district. Since 2009 he has been in a situation of harassment. In that year, after an abortion, a high-risk pregnancy and an early birth stop his first daughter, who is born with a congenital disease that requires natural breastfeeding. In view of this, Nelida asks the company for her annual vacations after maternity leave, plus a reduction in the number of days to be able to attend. The company refuses to comply with the law and tells him that what he has to do is go home, look after his daughter and we'll see if they hire her again. Obviously, Neli does not accept this situation because it would mean losing his job. And from here he comes into a real Calvary of layoffs, of judgments won in the trial. The judge tells the company that he has to readmit it in work conditions that the company does not accept. He reincorporates it, but in conditions that nothing resembles what the sentence says: in routes that do not allow him to contact his colleagues, having to pick up the bus on a stop, leave his car and then be three hours without doing anything at the bus station, and again have to leave the bus on this stop. They haven't given you uniforms since 2009, nor do they hand you their payrolls, which year after year you have to ask for — and vacations — in the trial. And it was even attacked in 2010. All of this has to be added that the Directorate General for Traffic on December 20 sends you a notice suspending your driver's license. This is done by DXT by the company's authorities, who consider that Neli is a risk to the safety of driving and the safety of travellers; a regrettable performance by the Directorate-General for Traffic, which does not bother to check the truthfulness of the complaint nor is he concerned about asking for medical reports, an action that, of course, we regret in the Nationalist Block of Galicia. And we regret the company's sacking Neli again with the cowardice of doing it as a bureaufax. We have to say that the Labour Inspectorate has raised several criminal records since 2012 and condemned the company. He used the qualifications of psychoterrorism, mobbling, harassment and labor harassment, and was convicted of violation of fundamental rights to compensate Neli. All this I just described is not the screenplay of a horror film, Counselor. It's the real life, day by day, of a meat and bone worker, of Nelida Pisco. And all these performances are carried out by a company that has a public concession from the Galician Union, a company to which it is paid with public money, with money from all the Greeks and the Greeks. And Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u246	Please put the question to you. Mrs. Prado, ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u247	...have, in their legislation, established how to improve the empowerment of female employment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u248	Mrs. Prado, please ask the question. Form it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u249	For all this, Counselor, I ask you, what are you going to do? Will you do some action from the Unity of Galicia, from its competence, to solve the unfortunate situation of Nelida Pisco's work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, you know perfectly well that the Government has always defended and, of course, will always defend the rights of any worker in Galicia. That's our responsibility, that's our way of acting, and maybe when there's a complaint of job harassment or gender discrimination. I believe that this is, I say, our responsibility and, indeed, in the last four years — to give you a data — the Labour Inspectorate has carried out about 1,100 actions related to the right to dignity and non-discrimination of workers. And he's also carried out his own Labour Inspectorate over 1,600 performances to ensure effective equality between men and women. So, I think the government is always about to react, it's always about defending workers' rights, and, as I said, maybe when the complaint is about job harassment or gender discrimination. The Labour Inspectorate, in fact, spoke on three occasions before Hedegasa, two of them concerning Mrs. Pisco Suárez. The first performance was in January 2010, which was related to discrimination. And since there was also a complaint in the social court, he knows that no administrative action was taken in that case. The second performance was already on 21 June 2012, and actually resulted in a very serious act of labour harassment and had a sanction on the company itself. Since then, Mrs. Prado, the Labour Inspectorate has not acted simply because he has not received any kind of complaint on the part of the worker in this case. What we did receive was a request for conciliation with the SMAC last Friday, January 20, exactly four days after your group had registered the question in this House. And the reason for this request, as you know, is also the worker's social security drop. In any case, if I can tell you that act of conciliation is fixed for February 9th, and I hope, logically, is the forceful action, as it has so far been, of the different administrations. I believe that Parliament is not the place to prejudge any kind of action. No public official — tell me — no official and no judge will make decisions against that right. And, of course, we are going to do what we are going to do is, logically, follow the case through the Labour Inspection itself and act, but in no case, Mrs Prado, I think it should be appropriate to establish parallel judgments on a case that is being resolved by ordinary channels and, above all, by channels to guarantee the workers' rights, as it is established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u252	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Prado's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u253	It is clear, Counsellor, that the Labour Inspectorate has acted and has been sentenced to work inspection records at the Santiago Social Court and the Galician High Court of Justice. But what we're asking you is what the Government of Greece is going to do in front of a company that systematically violates labour law and has this aberrant action with a worker — and it's not what we say here, but it's proven by judicial judgments. And the Galician Board, instead of acting, what it does is renew its concession. What we ask you is what political actions you are going to carry out, Counselor. Because it's not just a question of employment, it's a question of political action, and the Galician Union has political instruments to be able to act. There he endured and endured this indecent work situation, even though he was offered by the company that had abandoned his job. And he says what he's always defended was his right to be a mother and to keep his job, as a matter of dignity. In a recent interview he says, "Despite hard times, I'm aware of what I'm doing. I have two daughters and the fight is worth it because what I can get will also be for them. At first it cost me more to take the blows, but in time I realized that it was the toll needed to excite rights." And I ask you, Counselor, you and the Government you represent, if you will leave Nelida alone in your struggle for equality, for the conquest of rights for women; if you will let Him pay that fee individually for claiming what legally corresponds to him. The struggle for women's labour rights is based on these individual sins, incomprehension, the toll of indifference, the toll of harassment. And Junta has instruments to act. What you don't have is political will and shame if you don't do anything at all and you stay in the answer you gave me in the first intervention. You must not forget that we are here today, the women we are here today, with rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u255	...we're because we used to be a lot of Nelid Pisco anonymous...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u257	...they fought for our rights. And I'm telling you Nelida...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u258	Now you're going to answer the counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u259	...is an example of courage, courage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u261	...and dignity, and that it doesn't deserve a government as it is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Thank you. Thank you. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, your time is up, this isn't recorded anymore. Thank you. [[Applause]] Counselor's answer to close.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u263	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, I can move you, logically, is the greatest respect to the worker, the greatest respect to your colleagues as well, that you do not have this government for your intervention. In any case, what is clear is that this government will continue to act with total force, it will continue to act on its responsibilities, its responsibilities. And when you tell me about political action, indeed, the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry will act as a labour authority that is, in the exercise of its powers, and therefore we will continue to work closely with the Labour Inspectorate, it is our responsibility. And we're also going to ensure that all the labor rights of all the workers and all the workers in our community are met. I can give you another data, and it's that every year more than 80,000 inspectoral performances are being developed in Galicia since the Labour Inspectorate. And many of which actually give rise to infringements. That's why we're going to go on with total stamina, without any kind of crack, to defend those rights. I regret your intervention, Your Honor. It's not all worth the parliamentary debate. I think we've come here to act on behalf of all the Greeks and Greeks, not as the voices of a union. And, of course, I have all my confidence, all my confidence, in the professionalism and the good to make public servants, which you don't seem to have. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u264	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Casal Vidal, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. de En Marea on the measures to promote the Government of Greece to prevent the escape and relocation of auxiliary companies from the car sector to the north of Portugal
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u265	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u266	Good afternoon, Mr. Count. We're going to ask you about one of the most alarming issues we have right now in Galicia at the industrial level, such as the relocation process towards Portugal of the car component industry, which is more than 12,000 jobs and globally with the assembly industry more than 15% of Galicia's GDP. And I'm going to read some coverts of the French newspapers for the past two months, which you're sure you also know: "The automobile has won 5,800 jobs since 2010 in Portugal and lost 1,950 in Galicia", "The French Mecaplast buys a Lusa firm to supply PSA from Aveiro", "The north of Portugal captures two new suppliers who will create 550 jobs", "Aludec will open its second floor in Viana do Castelo with more than seventy employees", "The new automotive investments in the north of Luso create more than 2,000 jobs in a year". First of all, and how do we actually read all this as well and you are as alarmed as we are, even as the workers and workers of these industries in Galicia — in fact more than thirty providers of Psa Citroën are already in Portugal — structural initiatives to change this situation would have to be implemented long ago, since this process started eight years ago. It's not done. Now we have to change this course, but these structural measures will have results in the medium and long term, and the situation is so serious and pressing that we have to develop a shock strategy to mitigate this trend in the short term. That's why we want to know, and please don't tell us about the excellence of the Korean component industry, because we know it perfectly well, and what we want is that you answer the question that we're going to ask you: what are you doing and what will you do from now on by the short-term German Government to reverse the exponential trend of relocation of the car component industry towards northern Portugal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u267	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, I have to express my total surprise. Also my total satisfaction because this is the first time I hear a representative of your group asking that industry be supported in Galicia. I think that's to be happy and satisfied that you bring this question. Look, in this House, AGE voted against the amendment of the Land Law which allowed the expansion of Psa Citroën in Vigo; it voted against. You know perfectly well that you, together with the BNG, constantly question the aid that automotive companies receive in Galicia. The last time, Mr. Merlo, of En Marea, in Commission 6th of January 18th of this same year. Even someone in his sphere has come to say in this Parliament — and I quote — that Vigo is kidnapped by Citroën, not to say that Galicia is kidnapped by Citroën, and that Citroën's goal is to get Galicia to become a nation with the most precarious work of the European Union. That's what a close member of your group said. I therefore receive with complete satisfaction that correction which seems that your group wants to bring to this House and, of course, they are welcome to add in favour of modernization and reindustrialization in Galicia. And you ask me about structural measures that haven't been taken for eight years. I am sorry here that you don't know the reality of the automotive sector in Galicia and you don't know the reality of the performances that this government has carried out. You should know that this administration has already provided support for over 100 million euros over the past five years, mobilising more than 600 million euros. You should know that thanks to this Government, innovation is also within the agenda of the automotive sector, and I put as an example these 10 million euros for the Electronics Excellence Centre for Smart Vehicles in the CATAG, the 7 million euros to support eight joint research units and ultimately also the industry 4.0 bet. It seems to him that it happened above all that in the past legislation, with the work of this Government, with the work of the sector and without the support of En Marea — in those moments of AGE — Galicia has shown that it actually had technological capabilities to develop the autonomous car, that Galicia also had the capacity to assist it in two new models at the Citroën factory, which guarantee ten years of activity in the automotive sector. And it seems, Mr. Casal, that you haven't passed the past legislation on the industrialization of Galicia and on this government's bet on the automotive sector. I'm very sorry, but what I receive with great satisfaction is your group's interest in the industry in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u269	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u270	The truth is, Mr. Conde, as I had hoped, did not object at all to what they were going to do in the face of an obvious situation, that is, it seems like they're going through the reality that is being produced and they don't want to do it, and there's no worse ignorant than what they don't want to know. It's an obvious reality, we have to act. It is true that the Galician Union — I would miss more! — has given money for investment. It has also failed to invest 220 million euros of R+D+i in the last five years. Probably part of these 220 million euros without running had been in technological development, but in the technological development that really made value in the real value chain, and didn't pay costs that have to take some companies, such as Citroën, to save wage structures that have to assume in their own way and that at all bring value to the component industry. I, since you don't tell me specific things, I'm going to ask you possibilities, and we're going to offer to collaborate on that plan that you may think is not necessary, but at best in two years we're left without the industry of components at the pace we're taking: we need to simplify the procedures of industrial aid competitions at R & D+i, we need to increase the maximum levels of aid to the extent that it allows European Union legislation for true innovation. For that it is essential to better structure of the Igape, to transform it into a real developmental essence, rather than the fundamentally financial profile it currently has. That guarantees a good financial level control of aid but not its latest planning and proper destination. That's what we criticized, which seems to be that the rest of the groups in the previous legislation also criticized. It's not a subsidy, it's a subsidy. That's why Igape doesn't have enough structure to develop...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u271	Thank you, Mrs. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u272	And a lot more than I offer you when I have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u273	Another time, thank you. Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, I believe that, and I tell you in all honesty, you have absolute ignorance of this Government's Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda; not only of its planning, but of its execution. First of all, I should know that many of the elements that you transfer to me are in your own agenda as an industrial soil policy, as the different incentives. You should know, Mr Casal, that we are applying the maximum limits that European ERDF funds allow us, both in support of industrialization and in support of innovation. Finally, we are making all the sources available to the automotive and component industry, both from the point of view of industrial support and from the point of view of innovation support. So we're working on modernising the automotive sector to compete in the global market where we need to develop. The differential element comes through talent, comes through innovation, comes through Industry 4.0 and therefore comes through improved processes and products. That means supporting innovation, and we're doing it with the joint units. The development of Citroën's autonomous car came out of a joint unit. We continue to support Industry 4.0 through that investment order, which we hope will also yield results in the automotive sector. And we will continue to work, for example, with initiatives such as Business Factory Auto that will allow you to develop investments for 20 million euros linked precisely to innovative enterprise. I think and I regret that you have no knowledge of what this government is developing, but logically I receive this approach, of course, because we have to see the future. And indeed, towards the future we don't have to conform to why Galicia has two new models in the Citroën factory; we don't have to conform because the component sector is going to bill 6% more with the new model, with the new van than with the previous van; we don't have to conform. And we have to work on modernization of the sector, innovation of the sector. We need to work to further diversify the sector, so that in Galicia there will be more TIER-1 and, therefore, that the automotive sector in Galicia can be more effectively integrated. And we have to distinguish ourselves, basically, from innovation and the improvement of processes and products. That's what we're working on with Igape and also with the Galician Innovation Agency. Of course, the bet on industry in this sense, the bet on the automotive sector, is very obvious. We'll continue to see how the automotive sector landscape develops, not only in Portugal but also in other areas. And we'll work to keep our sector linked to the Citroën factory competitive, not in the next ten years, but also in the next ten years. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Counselor. Question by Ms. Olalla Rodil Fernández of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Question by Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the intention of the Galician Council to eliminate in general the obligation to know the Greek language in the selection procedures of actresses and actors working at the Galego Dramatic Center
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u275	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u276	Thank you, President. Before too many days ago, ladies and gentlemen, it's really hard to have to be here and listen to things like the ones we've just heard today, just to be taken into account. There he has endured eight years of psycho-terrorist acts from a dealership company in the Galician Union, eight years old! And if he comes to blame us now for nothing! [[Applause]] It's hard to hold on to the stage, but the show has to go on. So here's my question for the Education and Culture Advisor. Last December 2016, the bases on Agadic's page were published that govern the process of electing actresses and actors who will play carnival Tuesday by the Galego Dramatic Center. A historical milestone every time it is the first occasion after eighty years that we will be able to see and hear the work of Valle-Inclán in Greek, once the ban is lifted, the veto, which established the author's own family and which so far prevented us from translating into our language his work. In the selection procedure driven by the Galego Dramatic Center — as I say — a series of requirements are collected for the persons who have submitted their application, and those criteria have been removed from the knowledge of the Greek language and the criteria for evaluation of the professional curriculum; the knowledge and use of the Greek language in the everyday and artistic plane, the latter evaluated in four points, which you know is the selection procedure that has been determined. That amendment or deletion was collected whenever the call for enlargement was republished until 10 January of the application. The question is simple, it's simple and it's direct: why are they suppressed in this extension of deadlines those valuation criteria? And the question that we put to you in particular — this was the one that was recorded — is whether it is intended to eliminate as a general rule the obligation to know the Greek language of the selection procedures of actresses and actors working at the Drama Center. For me, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u277	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil, indeed, some better and worse days ago, and perhaps when you asked this question, it wasn't one of the best days you had, because to me, given the question, because you have a doubt, I don't know if you're healthy or in doubt, but what is the motivation? And I see only two possibilities: the first, that they haven't read the call and they play -- let me hear the artistic expression -- or just their obsession is so big that they see ghosts where there aren't. Because, Mrs. Rodil, applying the most basic logic, is a work in Greek, which will be represented in Greek, with actors who must speak in Greek. You said that this is the first time that the works of a great dramatist like Valle-Inclán will be represented in Greek. By the way, by the public company. So you said literally if we're going to suppress the obligation to know the English language to the actors who are going to represent a work in English in Valle-Inclán. Simply applying logic, you'll see that's not true. I don't know if it's that play of hearing or that search for ghosts, but you know that there was a request here, or you should know that there's a request from the sector, so in certain cases, actors who, not having Celga, have a sober competition in the oral expression of the Greek can participate in this process, in this public procedure, in order to be able to be actors hired by the CDG to represent the company. With which we are faced with the substitution of an administrative procedure, an administrative certificate, by a criterion of an independent, absolutely independent commission, which will assess whether those actors who do not have Celga but have oral competence in Greek can represent or not, or can be part of this work or not. And I think, if you read the order, you would realize, because literally — and allow me to read it in a literal way — it says: "In this test, knowledge and use of the Greek language will be evaluated, in the everyday and artistic plane, as I fit the court's criterion, and those who have Celga will be excluded from the process." I mean, you know there are characters of a certain age in this work. And obviously there is also a need for actors who are in vital conformity with these characters. And it's very possible that some of the founding parents of the German theatre, who have done a great job for the normalization of the Greek, don't have Celga; with which, if we listen to you, to your theory, we would be preventing many great actors from participating in the country. With which -- I insist -- I don't know if it touches your ear or if you really see ghosts where there aren't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u279	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Rodil's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u280	My theory, no, Counselor. The first of the bases published through the Agadic website formulated what I told you in my first intervention. And they even punctuated the knowledge and use of the Greek language in the everyday and artistic plane. The latter — I repeat — is in control C, control V, on Agadic's own page, with 4 points. That's the criterion you first set, and my question was very direct and very concrete, my question was very specific. It was if this change, that is, if the assessment of knowledge and use of the Welsh language in the selection processes of actresses and actors of the Galego Dramatic Center are, from now on and with general criteria, to be evaluated — as you say — by the court within the part of artistic interpretation, or if, on the other hand, you will return to your initial theory, not mine, to your initial theory, where a number of points were established in the evaluation also of the knowledge and use of your own language. I am not going to come in to assess whether it seems to me that within the selection process of actresses and actors they have to reject models more specific to the selection or selection of the staff of the Galician Union, simply the doubt — which is what is being formulated in the written question as well as in which I have just formulated myself in a living voice — is whether this deletion and this modification in this case, which is done because of the extension of the time for the submission of candidatures, will generally refuse or whether, on the other hand, you will be reamed at another time and will again incorporate the need for the presentation of Celga or that valuation criterion to be scored in this case with 4 points. That was the question I was asking you, you don't want to see monsters where there are them, nor do you act as defensive when you're not attacking them in this ass. I repeat, the question we put is very specific: will you go back to your initial position or will you use the new one as a general criterion? Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u281	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Mr. Counsellor's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u282	Madam, I think I was quite clear in my initial reply. You too, but I think that -- and allow me the expression -- you're seeing ghosts where there isn't. And I insist, I insist that here we are acting with a technical criterion of the management of the Galego Drama Center, under a request from the sector in which the Galego Drama Center is told that, in addition to Celga, those actors and actresses who do not have Celga but demonstrate a competition in the oral management of the Welsh language are not excluded. Celga is a relatively recent administrative requirement over time. There's a lot of actors, parents of the German theater, who don't have Celga. Are you, by your theory, telling us that we do not heed the criteria of the sector, the technical criteria driven by the leadership of the Galego Dramatic Center? Or are you telling us that, somehow, we have made an administrative criterion that can't afford that those Welsh actors who have a fantastic Greek oral domain can participate? I believe, Mrs. Rodil, that you, in your desire to try to find this government that we pursue and attack the Greek, if you have truly passed by on a brake. I insist that you apply the logical minimum. Put the logical minimum on the table. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] What human head can you think will be excluded, that will not be taken into account, in a selection process done with technical and artistic criteria in a work that will be represented in Greek, and that actors don't speak Greek? It is really – and allow me to express – a little absurd. In any case, for your tranquillity, Mrs. Rodil, I'll tell you that in this representation, as in the previous one, the selection criteria have always been made under technical parameters by the professionals of the sector. There's no kind of political interference, there's no kind of party issue. It is simply a request from the sector that you want to expand people's bananas and replace a purely administrative criterion — not to replace it but to extend a purely administrative criterion — by a criterion of knowledge and management of the Greek language. And I think there are people here who understand me perfectly -- I don't know in this particular case, but maybe people from this generation who were part of the theater parents -- and who would be surprised if we were going to calibrate the possibility of an actor or an actress acting in a work in Greek by an administrative certificate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u283	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment by the Government of the data of the 2015 PISA Report for the Autonomous Community
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u284	Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u285	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The report of the International Programme for the Evaluation of Students — the PISA Report — aims at assessing the training of students when they reach the end of compulsory education. It's a segment of population that's about to start postobrigatory education or about to integrate into working life. The PISA programme was conceived by OECD member countries as a resource for providing extensive and detailed information to enable member countries to adopt the public decisions and policies needed to improve education systems. The evaluation of PISA reports covers different areas: the area of reading, mathematics and scientific competence, so that the evaluation focuses precisely on the domain of procedures, understanding concepts and the ability to act in various situations within each domain. According to data from the latest PISA report of 2015, recently published, Galicia is located above the average of Spain and OECD in the competencies assessed, and also increases its total score and position in the ranking of autonomous communities with respect to the last report it referred to, of the year 2012. In view of the above, our group would like to know what valuation the Government of Greece makes of the data recently published in the 2015 PISA Report for the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u286	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u287	Thank you very much. Sir, I thank you for the question. The latest PISA data were positive for Galicia and positive for Spain. And they mark a high-quality path in teaching. I am sure that, if they were not, we would be watching a huge amount of criticism from opposition groups about the role of the Administration in these bad results. But, as they were good, the truth is, little of them are being talked about. I think it's good that you talk, because this data is not the only result of political action; on the contrary, this data is so that all Galicia is proud, so that the entire education community in Galicia is proud of them. Data was good in 2015. I'm going to read some indicators that mark a path that I think is very positive for teaching in English. We've had the best results in our history in mathematics, science and reading. Our autonomous community is, in the three variables evaluated, above the OECD average. The German student improved in a few years at 10 points in reading competition, and at 5 points in mathematics. In scientific competition, Galicia is at the level of countries such as Germany, Australia, the Netherlands, South Korea or Switzerland. And there's a fact that I think it's more positive than all of these that I've just said, and that the Greek education system is the most equitable of the countries that participate in the study. Obviously this is the fruit of a collective work, where families, teachers and also the Administration have all our corresponding share in this field. There's a joint job and I think we're going in the right line. Projects have been launched which have been very receptive by the educational community as a whole, and ultimately a combined action on a positive line of families, teachers, centres, management teams and programs launched by the Administration in different fields — teacher training, program contracts, incorporation into the curriculum of materials linked to technology, such as robotics and programming, in the reinforcement of reading, for example, in Plambe, LIA, or in the bet on plurilingualism, ICTs, attention to diversity or the promotion of coexistence. That is, there are many lines of work that have been well managed by the educational community and that allow Galicia fortunately in recent years to have a positive balance. And, as I said at the outset, I appreciate this question, because I am sure that if the data were negative, the blame would be on the whole of the Union and surely the opposition groups would be constantly rebutting that issue to us. As data is obviously positive, this is a collective success and we are very happy that it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u288	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Fernández Gil's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u289	Thank you, President. Mr Counsellor, in fact, the fact is that even the other day at the Commission 4th meeting we had to listen to some of the opposition groups in this case saying that the PISA report had to be dismissed. Of course, the PISA report must be demystified at the time that the data is positive. When the data is not positive quickly the PISA report is used as a fundamental argument to build that disaster account to which we are usually used to opposition. [[Applause]] But, well, the truth is, we have to congratulate ourselves on these results, because they show in some way how the Greek education system is walking, how long the paths are made, step by step towards improving its quality. And in that sense, of course, something has to say to the Greek Government, which is what it implements measures precisely to achieve this improvement of the education system, as I said before, I pass through the little passage, which is how the long routes are made. Of course, the results of this report and the results of all these indicators are not the result of chance, but in many cases they are the result of a work, as you well said, of the work of the entire educational community. But in particular, I also want to emphasize the work that can be done since the Administration and the Government. And in that sense, I would like to close now, to clarify to us a little bit on this last shift what actions and measures have been implemented in these years to progressively achieve the improvement in all these indicators and, therefore, to walk in that improvement of the education system in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u290	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Mr. Counsellor's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u291	Thank you very much, sir. Well, I think the PISA report, obviously, always has detractors, but it's a very positive indicator because it puts us on a balance against other territories. And maybe there's a question that needs to be highlighted, and it's that for a long time we were attending a speech in which we talked about that progressively the Spanish education system and also the Greek, because of the cuts, lost quality. And the results I zero are there. In the end, a public policy has to see the results. There are results on the table. Are we improving social equity? Yes, we have a more equitable education, we have a teaching that guarantees equality of opportunity, we have a teaching that progressively moves towards a reduction in school failure, a variable that is as important as a reduction in school failure. And we have an educational process that is also improving educational results. I believe that this purely quantitative discourse of educational policies, based only on budget amounts, loses some strength when the results are finally seen and the results are put on the table. And also a second reflection, and it is that the PISA Report also tells us that there is often a correlation between the socio-economic level of the territories and the educational results, so that autonomous communities or territories — European regions as well — that have a higher level of income often have a higher educational level. And it's curious that in the Spanish case some autonomous communities that have higher income are experiencing a reduction in their educational results, for example, the Basque Country. While other regions that have a lower socio-economic level are having better educational results than those assumed on the basis of their socio-economic level; for example, Castile-Leon, and, for example, Galicia. Which means that in the implementation of public policy we're not only talking about economic management, we're talking about what is done with the resources that citizens put in our hands. And I think that's the important thing about PISA. And with regard to the question of what has been done or what is being done to contribute together with the entire educational community to improve the results, there are fundamental aspects. A fundamental aspect is the reinforcement of reading. We have launched a series of projects and programs that have very good responsiveness from educational centres: the LIA Plan, the school library plan — the Plambe — as well as the plan of empowerment in foreign languages, the commitment to diversity, we are the autonomous community that has a higher percentage of students with special educational needs within the education system, which makes it possible to have a greater inclusion, and also that there is a greater reinforcement of these skills so that students do not fail school and we can all have a higher average. And one fundamental thing is also teacher training. Galicia has a great teacher training plan. Every year there are more than 2,000 teacher training actions. This, along with the innovation of the program contracts, makes it possible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u293	...that the whole educational community — families, teachers, teachers and administration —...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u294	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u295	... fortunately we're working on a good line and Galicia can look at the educational future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u296	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u297	...with good eyes. Even though we obviously have to keep improving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-01-25-DSPG013.u298	Thank you, Counselor. There's no more questions. Finish the full here. Good night.
