ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. He justified the inattentiveness of this full Don Carlos López Crespo. We're on the agenda. The first point is legislative texts. Debates and votes of the Ditame, delivered by Commission 3rd, Economic, Business and Budgets, on the draft law on tax and administrative measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u2	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Socialists and the En Marea. The President of Commission 3rd, Economic, Farm and Budget Commission has the floor for the Commission's submission.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Presentation of the Opinion on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The bill was entered into Parliament's Register on 20 October 2017. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on that same day, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to the 3rd Commission on Economics, Farms and Budgets. The parliamentary groups of En Marea, the Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block presented each amendment to the whole, which were qualified on November 13, 2017 and rejected at the plenary session on November 20, 2017. Parliamentary Group of the Party Amendments, the People's Parliamentary Group made 48 amendments; the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, 47; the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 63; and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, 47, which was qualified on 24 November 2017. Commission 3rd, Economy, Farm and Budgets, at its meeting on 27 November 2017, appointed the following speakers. Popular Parliamentary Group of Galicia: don Paula Prado del Río, holder; don José González Vázquez, alternate. Parliamentary Group of En Marea: Don Antón Sánchez García, holder; Don José Manuel Lago Peñas, alternate. Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia: Don Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, holder; Don Abel Losada Álvarez, alternate. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: Dona Olalla Rodil Fernández, holder; Dona Noa Presas Bergantiños, alternate. At the meetings of 28 and 29 November and 5 December 2017, the Parliament studied the joint text of the project, together with the amendments submitted, and completed the report, which contains the recommendations made to it by the Commission, consisting of the adoption by most of the amendments made by the People's Parliamentary Group, except for paragraphs 10, 11, 12, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 and 28, which were dealt with, and the acceptance of paragraph 55 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Transitional amendments have been adopted with the above-mentioned amendments of the Popular Parliamentary Group and Amendments Nos 34, 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39 of the En Marea Parliamentary Group; 20, 23, 24, 34, 35, 36, 37, 39, 41 and 42 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group; and 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40 and 42 of the Nationalist Group of Wales. The Commission, meeting on 12 December 2017, adopted by a majority the Report of the European Parliament. The text of the speech before the debate and the vote at this plenary meeting contains a explanatory statement, followed by 28 articles, 5 transitional provisions, 1 derogation provision and 4 final provisions. The joint is divided into two main headings: Title I, relating to tax measures, and Title II, relating to administrative measures. Title I, divided into several chapters, sets out changes in the regulations governing own taxes and state taxes. Title II regulates various aspects in matters such as public employment, land management, urbanism, river fishing, maritime fisheries, pharmaceutical management, rural environment, social services, economy, employment, industry, trade, consumption, education and transport. The regulatory text shall be closed with various provisions contained in the transitional, derogatory and final provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u4	Thank you, Mr. Losada. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the amendments maintained. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u5	Good afternoon to all and to all. From the Galego Nationalist Block — as we have said on more occasions — we reject the use of this tool, the Law of tax and administrative measures — whether known, or more known, as an Accompaniment Law, because a practice, which usually ceases to be a sub-refugee, serves the Government of Greece in this case, and we also see that in a repeated way — as in some ways — as a sub-refugee. This tool, which we have most often stated, has an exceptional character, has an urgent character, and must include only those legal reforms which are indispensable for the proper execution of the budget. It cannot serve as a back door to steal from the necessary parliamentary debate, but above all from the necessary social debate that would carry out in silent reforms such as those carried out in this draft accompanying law, for example, the Fire Prevention Act, the Land Mobility Act or the Law of neighboring Mountains in common hands. And I say it's customary because since 2009 the People's Party has used the Law of Accompanying as a solemn revolutionum, as a box of tailors, to modify laws — in this case 21 — last year through an accelerated procedure. We do not agree with this procedure or this legislative mechanism at BNG. With regard to tax measures, we believe that the People's Party refuses to adopt another more progressive and equitable taxation to ensure greater redistribution of wealth. We maintain in this sense our amendments that, within the limited capacity that recognizes the current political framework to the Government of Galicia, to the Council of Galicia, would allow greater economic resources to be raised than to shield and improve public services and economically and socially the country towards greater development and greater social justice, to apply greater progress to IRPF's autonomous tranches with additional charges for tax bases exceeding EUR 60,000, and above all to those incomes that exceed EUR 120,000 and to create, within the limited capacity that recognizes the current political framework to the Government of Greece, a tax that exacerbates the economic impact, the economic impact and the social impact of the large commercial areas, or to really restore the capital tax, which exceeds EUR 300,000, excluding the first living or habitual housing. These are proposals that make up — as we have also said in the first of the debates that we have had around this Act of accompaniment at the beginning of the parliamentary process of these budgets — an incomplete, limited tax package, but in line with the current framework. From the BNG we insist on the need to overcome that framework towards another that allows the Greeks and the Greeks to act on the large tax figures and provide the Government of this country with budgetary resources, with the economic resources they allow — as we have been defending throughout this debate session — to shield public services as fundamental rights that they are. In relation to the set of administrative measures included in the Accompanying Law, we insist — and we will not tire of saying it every time we have the opportunity, and I am very afraid that year after year, at least in what remains of legislation — to reject this mechanism as a tool to bring about reforms of silence in extremely important laws, such as those said at the beginning: the Fire Prevention Act, the Law on Neighboring Mountains in common hands or the Law on Land Mobility. With regard to a figure like that of the communal mountains, marked by their assembly character, it cannot be reformed without consulting the assembly of municipalities and the organization representing them, and less so when what is intended with the reforms incorporated into this accompanying law is to open a door to deliver its management to private hands, using the declaration of the mountain in severe state of abandonment with absolutely discretionary criteria. That's why we tabled an amendment so that it could not remain in the discretion of the board, but rather that there had to be fixed criteria adopted by decree by the board of directors. Since the BNG we have continued to defend this form of property, the need to revitalize and recover the communal assemblies, and above all to walk towards a multifunctional exploitation of the mountain that balances its triple dimension: economic, ecological and, above all, social. Other amendments that introduce, for example, the Predation Law, passed this same year only a few months ago; or the Land Law, in which you are already going for the ultimate reform in just over a year. They leave evidence that they legislate impulses, self-amended by parishes. But for self-amendment, the 2007 Fire Prevention Act. We also said that at the first session when we had the opportunity to debate this accompanying law: what was left of it, after two thirds had already been reformed with the Mountain Law in a last provision? I already say, for self-amendments, those that are incorporated into the reform of the Fire Prevention Act. You are required, and even the transactions in which we have reached an agreement by the People's Parliamentary Group and the Nationalist Block Galego reflect precisely that self-amendment with which you are facing some of the so damaging political decisions that they made between 2009 and 2010. Two, so, largely, by saying this in some way: they expand the ranges of protection and management of biomass, after canvases reduced by pure political sectarianism in the 2012 Mountain Law, taking advantage of another sub-refugee, as was at that time that last provision, and without — open quotes — "technical justification" —and chest quotes. "End of the appointment," said Mr. Rajoy, as indicated in his report by the Economic and Social Council. [[Applause]] He said the Economic and Social Council at that time, with its report, that there was no technical justification for explaining or justifying — namely redundancy — the limitation, the removal of meters in those strips of protection and management of biomass. They also introduce changes and, I insist, some of them with the transactional amendments that have been agreed between the People's Party and the Galician Nationalist Block to write more clearly and with due legal certainty the subsidiary execution in those lands without a known owner, in abandoned lands or in those that have been resettled with forbidden species. They're near that they were formulated by the Fegamp. We insist — and we want to underline this — that we see that they make a self-amendment to an important part of the political decisions adopted by the People's Party since 2009 and that they have been presented by the Fegamp, and since the Galego Nationalist Block we want to collect them, not because we coincide with the forestry policy of the People's Party, as was said in Commission 3a, not because we agree with the use of the Accompany Law as a tool to develop these changes, but because, after the event this summer, after the event, above all in the fire strike, in the fire strike of October, the Nationalist Block Galego assumes its responsibility, as we always do, by formulating, whatever space, our approaches to introduce legal changes that are precise; always with a very clear objective, that is to improve the situation in which people live in our country. Many of them, many of the approaches we have made to this goal of improving the quality of life of the people who live and work in this country and their living conditions, have not, in fact, been supported all those who were not proposed by the Fegamp were practically rejected by the People's Party. In the BNG we have one thing very clear: what is collected in the Accompanying Law on Fire Prevention or Land Mobility is conjunctural measures that will not solve a multi-causal problem like fires, and much less shorten the reality that we currently have on the mountain. But what this group cannot be accused of is not having the will of dialogue, because in the committee, in the debate that was in committee, we also had to hear from the People's Party Parliamentary Group that we did not have the will for dialogue. Nor can we be accused of having no proposals for a 180-degree shift in forest policy and mountain management in this country. We made proposals for dialogue when Galicia still did not burn, in June; we made them come to the President of Galician Union through a letter signed by the national spokesperson of the BNG and we did it by presenting and defending it in this House, in this very Chamber, multiple initiatives. Everything if he told us no, or we were given silence by answer. We urged the People's Party to address the abandonment of rural and mountain areas, the lack of territorial and forest management, the strong presence of alien and pyrophytic species, mostly eucalyptus and pine, climate change, drought, the destabilization of fires, the precariousness of working conditions and the service of fire prevention and extinction itself. We were all told no. Months later, reality was imposed and forced to move, late, ill and the trail. Let's see if that movement leads us to some place or serves them, through the Fire Research Commission, once again, to return us to the same place. For my part, for now, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today at this plenary session we are going to approve or, better said, the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures, known as the "Accompaniment Law", which, once again, we insist, the Government of the CMP of Galicia is bringing us closer together with the Bill of Budgets for the financial year 2018, as if it were a more integral volume of the budgets of the CMP of Galicia. I also want to remember that it is a common practice in the governments of Mr. Núñez Feijóo at the Galician Council, to rule with most absolute majority that, therefore, little or nothing justify this way of legislating, and nothing would prevent them from being dealt with by an ordinary procedure, and — I insist — nothing would prevent them from being approved, since, as they usually remind us, you have the absolute majority to do so. I remind you that between 2010 and 2017 — governments which are continuously governed by Mr Núñez Feijóo in the Galician Union — this accompanying law has changed practically 400 specific policy issues relating to 70 different laws, and we are excluding those of a tax or tax nature. And in this exercise 2018, in this law that we bring here today, 20 laws are amended, excluding tax rules as well, and 12 of those laws that today are amended here by this law were promoted by the governments, directly, of Mr. Núñez Feijóo. [[Applause]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do not look for excuses, the People's Party has been ruling uninterruptedly nine years in Galicia, nine years uninterrupted! So nothing justifies this way of ruling. It's a sign of desire, it's a sample of improvisation. You legislate according to the needs that arise; you prefer to remedy rather than prevent. They'd rather fix it. So forgive me, but it seems to me a rather compelling way to legislate in which the absolute majority of the People's Party despises the work of the opposition and shows that the People's Party does not have a country project. We, the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, have tabled 63 amendments to this bill. We got one and we got eleven, which represents 19% of all the amendments we tabled. And we accept transactions because we are a responsible parliamentary group. For us the most important thing is to have the laws passed by this Greek Parliament that can be substantially improved by our contributions, being aware, as I said earlier, that most of them would be enough to approve them and could reject all our amendments. So we're about to compromise because what we want is for them to get better. Look, I'm going to remind you of some of the amendments tabled by our parliamentary group that you didn't accept. In the first block, of tax measures, the Socialists proposed that those contributors affected by forest fires during this exercise might deduct 100% of the total amount invested to mitigate the damage caused by these forest fires. We also proposed extending coverage, not only to real estate, but also including housing, supplementary facilities, closures, household ditches, settlements of all kinds, agricultural and livestock farms, means of transport, the expenses necessary for housing or any other expenditure resulting from forest fires. We also proposed changes on the IRPF recording scale, increasing the percentage for the highest income. We also propose the establishment of a minimum exemption for property tax in EUR 400,000, excluding from the advance, of the maximum amount of up to EUR 400,000 corresponding to the usual housing. We also proposed an increase in the type to increase the tax rate of environmental damage tax caused by certain uses and uses of encouraged water. And also the increase in rates corresponding to air pollution tax. None of these amendments were accepted by the People's Party; that is, our parliamentary group proposes a redistribution of wealth based on which it pays the most and in which it contaminates itself, but the People's Party does not accept these principles. I remind you that it is necessary to increase your income to meet those who are worse off. Today, here — official data, EPA, third quarter—, 2017: 33.600 homes without income; 61.700 homes with all their members unemployed. 2008-2015: Real wage dropped by 7.6% and distributed dividend increased by 31%. That is, the policies on the right, the policies of the People's Party, are capital over work. [[Applause]] In the following block, of public employment, we also present another series of amendments. We know that, in public employment, the working conditions of employees and public employees have suffered the policies of cutting these years of crisis. Under Law 1/2012, of temporary measures in certain areas of public employment of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the Government of Greece applied to all employees of the autonomous public sector cuts in their labour rights, economic penalties for the situation of work disability, aid from social action funds were abolished, rights to prolong their stay in the active service situation were restricted by fulfilling the age of forced retirement; rights collected in several articles of the V Single Collective Convention for employees of the Galician Union were unilaterally suspended and restrictions were imposed on the provision of jobs and mobility. Also, during the years 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, it was imposed, in addition to the abolition of the extra payment of 2012, a pay cut for all employees in the autonomic public sector who amounted to an average of 5% annually, by removing the specific supplement or equivalent concept in extraordinary payments. This Law 1/2012 was born on a temporary basis, so its vigil was subject to the existence of difficult economic circumstances affecting the sustainability of public accounts; conditions and circumstances that seem to be reverting, since in the draft general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia 2018, adopted with the votes of the People's Party today morning at the plenary session of this House, you point out that the macroeconomic scenario foresees the continuation of the expansion of the Greek economy. They also say they want to maintain the high quality of public services, including health and education. And they also say that social policies with the most disadvantaged and attention to dependent people constitute an irrevocable commitment and represent an important effort. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, according to these approaches, we ask them to repeal this law, since this law is preventing the quality of public services from returning to 2018, as well as the development of social policies. You didn't accept our amendments either. The policies of the People's Party during these years have led to the weakening of public services, the reduction of the redistributive and social capacity of the welfare state, deregulation, making it easier for new areas of privatization to reach our community, and the breach of the social contract, which leads to greater social inequality. Yes, Counselor, greater inequality. In the rural block, we see that the content of this law that you present today to approve here shows the recognition of a great guilt about the consequences of the wave of fires that affected Galicia at the end of the week of October 15 this year. It's a great recognition of guilt. But did they really have to wait for nine years of uninterrupted government in which fires year after year leave us a dismal panorama and which assume very important losses for those affected and also a very important expense for the Galician Union? Would it not be more effective, would it not be more efficient, spending part of these amounts on prevention, planning, improving the rural environment, encouraging productivity or helping municipalities for forest planning? This would indeed lead to the settlement of the population in rural areas, by investing instead of spending, by saving in extinction and by avoiding the terrible consequences of the fires, such as those we have just suffered, mainly in material goods and human lives. [[Applause]] You don't have a country project, budget not to run. I'm going to give you a data: 2013-2016, heading 551B, preventive actions and forest infrastructure, recognized less initial credit unexecuted, 39 million euros. Part 713, forest production management, recognized obligations minus initial credit, EUR 70.6 million. That is, by adding these 2013-2016 accounts, more than 109 million and a half euros without running through the Galician People's Party Board. Won't you have anything to do with this failure of execution, this desire, the devastating consequences that we've just lived? Why don't you think of the country key, without going parking, the consequences of a lack of politics? I'm going to give you another fact: Law 3/2007 on forest fire prevention and defense, 56 changes since 2010, and this law is subject to change in 13 timely changes. So 109 million and a half are not executed and 56 changes to the law in seven years. That's your balance. That is why the Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled a number of amendments in this paragraph too, regretting that these are not discussed in the ordinary proceedings, regretting that many of these measures have not already been implemented and regretting that we have to live again this kind of catastrophe on our land. Look, you always refer to the Bipartite, the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño, and on this subject as well. They also remember the 2006 fire strike. It's true that the consequences were terrible, but do you know what the worst is even, much worse? That after eleven years they have not improved prevention at all; that if, instead of a weekend, these fires had been for fifteen days, as in 2006, Galicia would literally burn in its entirety, mount, goods and persons; that the rules adopted by the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño were corrected to establish less coverage in the prevention fringes, as well as in the plantations of pyrophytes; and that nothing was done in eleven years, except to put out the fires that touched us to live. [[Applause]] You rule as if politics couldn't do anything to minimize certain problems, defence, conformity and determination. Look, in 2010 our parliamentary group also introduced a bill, which was obviously not approved by the People's Party and in which several of the improvements that are proposed here were collected...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u8	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u9	...but you despise the work of the opposition. So, in our amendments -- and I'm going to go directly to the first and the replica -- I'm going to have a chance to continue with the others -- we set up a classification of scales for the staff dedicated to work on forest fires, in order to improve the classification, assignment of functions and the performance requirements of the jobs of the forest brigades, as they have exposed us to different trade union organizations. In any case, we continue to maintain that the right way to modify or improve functional scales is not to take advantage of a law of measures, but to amend Galicia's Public Employment Act, after the corresponding collective bargaining. We accept the transaction of these amendments to improve the structure and requirements of the forest brigade bosses and the categories of bomber and forest fireman drivers. This transaction on our amendments will facilitate the employment promotion of about 1,500 workers from the forest brigades. That's why we accept this transaction and we will continue to work and present initiatives that seek the improvement of the Italian public employment, which will result in the improvement of the Greek public services. We proposed the introduction of changes to the common-hand mountains in the sense already collected in the bill that our group presented in 2010, granting more specific functions to the Galician Union, such as promoting the establishment of neighbouring communities when they do not exist, defense or management in case of severe abandonment, the extinction of the neighbouring community by the Galician Union to promote their management...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u11	...and prevent forest fires and that in the cautious management or in the neighboring mountains declared in a state of severe abandonment or degradation 70% reinvests itself in the maintenance and management of the mountains...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u13	I'm done, Mr President, let me just one paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u14	If you do the favor, because we're going too bad of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u15	And expand the work of the Land Bank and the criteria for reversing the mountains. I'll follow up on my next intervention. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u16	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u17	Good afternoon. This law is a great camouflage of the incompetence of the self-titled Government of the good managers of Nuñez Feijóo. You also present amendments; you amend because you do not plan, you amend how little you plan. This is a huge tax smoke cloth, an administrative trick to misguide the citizen's attention to the Galician Union's incapacity; a propaganda cover—one more—, fraud and information noise. In addition, it is the finding of the failure of policies in agriculture, in the rural environment, in the mountain, in rehabilitation policies; sharp and continuing failures to do the policies differently, the finding of the use of lies after the fires that cost four deaths, giving only and exclusively to incendiary terrorism what has complex causes, as is also reflected in the attempt here to make up issues of territorial management, make up issues of the Fire Prevention Act, make the inaction in the surrounding mountains in common and make their ineffectiveness in trying to jointly manage the forest surface in the sudden failure of the sulphur, announced by this opposition for years, making proposals that were not taken into account by the absolute sovereignty of the People's Party, which thinks that by having 41 Members this gives you reason, as it is said the land is flat. Because they have the majority and they can't listen to what we've been working for because they're hearing something about what they were saying and what a lot of people understand about it. It is the realization of the continuing improvisation already failed and of the failure of the country's project; legislative confusion held up to paroxysm in recent times. Two buttons for this show: the Popular Parliamentary Group amends its fifth amendment to the Land Law in less than two years. That's not serious. They will have to modify it again, derived from other provisions that introduce this law, and they will have to change it if the Galician Rehabilitation Act is approved, because it affects many issues of the Land Law. Because the Land Law approved two years ago contained an expansive model of urban expansion, and at all, it regulated rehabilitation, and that demonstrates once again the continuing improvisation. Perhaps, the new Rehabilitation Act is to cover up the disastrous execution in this sector that you have had, for example, running in 2016 15% of the housing rehabilitation promotion program, 15%! That, of course, leads to the fact that the rehabilitation data since you arrived today have dropped from 938 to three hundred and peak. It's normal with your management. More spectacular, impossible? No, no, you know that. Today they bring here in the amendments the first amendment to the Business Initiatives Promotion Act, the Predation Act approved about a month ago, and they already change a minor issue, as I will say later. Someone had to go knock on the door, Counselor, to tell them: How was mine left? And you've had to run eager to look after your management, which is the People's Party or this government. Absolute discretion, therefore; legislation to the letter and the whim of the economy of friends; instant legislative changes; feel of country? None. Legislative solidity? Nula. Decency? Very little. Changes in urban matters are relevant, as are the competence of municipalities in the field of sanctions. They forgot to include a transitional provision, as I said, in the planning layout and management tools in process. The supposed direct sale of wood, by the limit of the county, will require the modification — one more — of the Heritage Law. So much dispersal that even in the amendment of the People's Party, they introduce an amendment, a last third provision, which is entitled: Legislative reformation in the field of forest fire prevention and defence. They make an amendment to recast what they have systematically modified, year after year, up to twice a year, and with the amendment, of course, because they have to put a little order. That's the chaos they have to introduce! The chapuza is such a calibre that they forget to include these transitional provisions for the urban regime of the new forest influence zone, one more change they will have to make. As I said, they modify the "predation law of Galicia," that law made to the extent of the large companies that come to spoil the country. And they change nothing more and nothing less than the vigil of sectoral projects, which before had a limit. If they didn't develop and don't meet the deadlines, they could ask for an extension, etc., but now you — I suppose you intend to take us for a fool — to these sectoral projects — those that were put at their door, those that were affected, give them endless vigilance to develop them, as if here we didn't need to set deadlines for developing urban instruments. Now you propose in the amendment that the vigilance of sectoral projects involving the transformation and urbanization of the soil will be the one establishing urban legislation for partial plans. That's why I said they must think we're lost idiots. Urban legislation does not provide specific supervision for partial plans. The vigil of the planning instruments of all of them is indefinite — Article 82 of the Land Law, approved two years ago. "The urban planning instruments will have indefinite vigil," article 82. So another favor — if it wasn't enough — to some friend. You came here to teach this House of Good Government, the excellence of its forestry policies, rural development, land management, and you know what the amendment group means, the resurgence of amendments that you bring here? That their lies are not supported, that they have to make them with amendments, that they have no credibility. I'm seeing a continuing failure. On Friday, the data from the INE Agricultural Farm Survey 2016 were published, and it reflects the fiasco of its policies. In Galicia, 3,400 farms from 2013 to 2016, 4%, twice the state average. And despite losing double the percentage of the state average of holdings, the useful farm area by exploitation falls against what it does in the state; that is, we lose farms and we are not able to increase the area of the remaining farms. So we've lost useful agrarian surface with its big policies. The same is true of the enormous ageing of landowners, which, I have already said, is a dramatic situation: less than 2% of landowners under 35 years of age. And you keep saying it's all good. Mr Feijóo said here in the investment speech that the partial mergers would end - those that are active - in this legislation. Impossible!, at the pace they're taking, since they've been legislating it would take fifteen years to solve the 116 remaining active. They lie, and it seems that everything comes out here for free, that it has no consequences, but it has consequences for the country, of course. And we've also been insisting on the incapacity of the instrument you chose for the joint management of the mountain. Of course, it's necessary that you manage the mount together, but you come to make deaf ears, with pride and prepotence, to which we came by saying and that the data found: 5 Sofor constituted since you rule, 800 hectares; a terrible ridiculous, and you change, as always. The solution: tax deductions. That's not the solution, because in this country there are already figures that jointly manage the surface, and you haven't been able to make policies to dynamize and support these surfaces, which are the neighboring mountains in common. Do you think if your policies don't work with the neighboring mountains in common, they'll work to jointly manage the private area of our rural area? No, because, as the Board of Auditors says, something more than tax deductions are needed, what they do, in addition, is to flatter the public; public policies that are necessary, as the Board of Auditors says, so that, for example, forest districts do something more than do the policy of preventing and extinguishing fires, they can do what is called forest extension, they can support with technical knowledge the neighbouring mountains in common, dynamize them, be a support for better functioning and for rational exploitation of the territory. If they're not able with the neighboring mountains in common, how will they be able to do it with the sophomores? That's not your goal. His goal, as in the neighboring mountains in common, is to make the green desert so that it will come to its solution, which is the entrance of the capital. So the only measures you take both in the bill and in the amendments are to facilitate the declaration of the joint neighbouring mountains in a state of abandonment to hand them over to the Land Bank, so that any company can manage them. Not a single measure to make these joint neighboring mountains work, so that people themselves can manage these mountains. No, they favor abandonment, as they favor the abandonment of the rural environment. Reforestation of agricultural land. For years now, they have denied that there was a problem of reforestation of agricultural land, despite data from the useful agricultural surface, which was falling, despite the reality that we see of meadows and prairies planted with eucalyptus all over the country. On the other hand, you bring here a change to be able to execute subsidiaryly when there is a need for agricultural reforestation, but we have been lost for years, with thousands of reforested hectares, which have many negative effects, to deepen in that imbalance in a country that is unable to produce food that consumes, which has to spend 900 million euros on buying food that is not able to produce, but also very negative effects on the fires, making forest masses continuously, which are a danger, when there were natural fires. We don't say so, in addition to the Board of Auditors, that talks about the importance of changing the structure of forest administration, that this forest administration is a support... of course, this is much more difficult, it requires more rigour, more effort, economic resources, to carry out, to paint in the law, a tax deduction that will not solve anything; it won't solve anything. Counsellor, aid for the incorporation of young people and girls is very important, I suppose that of the most important of any economic activity, and that does not prevent it from failing when people try to incorporate themselves, because there are many other things that require medium- and long-term policies, that need support policies, that need infrastructure, that need technicians, that need public services. A tax deduction doesn't solve anything; that yes, something can be solved to a certain company, which will have technical knowledge, which will have the ability to finance its projects, but not to people. Another expert — which I sometimes have discrepancies, of what I have read to him — says Juan Picos, a professor, I think of the University of Vigo, of a triple threat: the structure of the property. You, the absolute failure—I have given you the data—in the forest-building societies, the absolute failure in the neighboring mountains in common. The abandonment and aging of the population. You have made policies of destruction and abandonment of the rural environment. It also talks about the deficit in systematic public investment; it figures between 36 and 52 million euros on the forest plan's forecast. And he's talking about the structure of the forest administration, which he's saying for years. You're yours, no matter what. You think these tax deductions will solve something; they'll solve it to big companies. You put more duties on the municipalities in the fight against the fires, but you don't put a euro on the budgets. Conventions with the Town Councils for the Prevention and Extinction of Fires are kept exactly the same as in 2017, because you don't plan, are not consistent with what they say in the Law on Tax and Administrative Measures and what they put into budgets. They pass a law to promote business initiatives that don't appear in the memory of budgets, they want to pass a law of rehabilitation that doesn't appear in the memory of budgets, they want to give more duties to the Greek municipalities and they don't give them a single euro, because that's not the goal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u18	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u19	We do believe that there are solutions, but the solutions are not just making a green desert so that between the great capital; the solutions will have to come with another kind of policy that wants people to live in rural areas, that have an administration that supports them, strictly, seriously, and not with the continuing improvisation of what you're doing, because you've really never had another objective than that: deserting rural. They've been ruling in this country for thirty years, and the photograph of rural Galicia is largely their responsibility. The photograph of rural Galicia is a rural village where the agricultural population is aged, where the rural environment is abandoned, where there is an aging rural environment, where there is no land management and where the forest area is not certified. That's the photograph of your policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u20	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I want to apologize for this voice I've taken. I didn't listen to the president and I didn't vaccinate, and now what happens. [[Laughter]] Well, jokes aside, we are debating today's Report of the Law on Tax and Administrative Measures; a text that, as we have just heard from members of the opposition, is highly criticised, because they consider it to be an inappropriate legislative resource. Well it's true that it's not the best legislative instrument, I've said it on many occasions, but precisely this year this law of measures turns out to be a useful instrument. We have come to this plenary today with a very busy text, very worked by parliamentary groups. It was said here that we didn't listen to the opposition, that we wouldn't listen to him, and that's not true, and that's proof of that is how many amendments we have made, we have approved and even assumed. The chairman of the committee has been reading here before, at the beginning of the debate, the countless amendments which have been adopted. Therefore, I believe that all the speech of the opposition members, who have just said here that the People's Party applied the knee and the absolute majority, falls by itself, because proof of that are the amendments that have been accepted. Last November 7, when President Feijóo appeared in this House, he offered a country deal against fire, and today we can say that in the Law of measures we materialise very important agreements that will have short-term results. The People's Parliamentary Group has made 48 amendments to this legislative text. Some group asked why we amended the Law of Measures. For, logically, this law enters Parliament in the same week when, unfortunately, there was a wave of fires in Galicia, and since there was a change in the Law on Measures on Forest Policy, we take advantage of it to introduce measures to be applied in the short term, and in the short term I say already in May 2018. We would not come to May and June with these measures in force; we could not, at the time of the greatest risk of 2018, take the measures that we are going to adopt today. I therefore believe that all groups must be responsible and recognize that the measures we adopt today in the Law on Measures, particularly in the field of forestry policy, are very important for the future of Galicia. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, the employees and public servants, do you know when they suffered a greater cut in economic rights? In May 2011, being President of the Government Mr. José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero; economic rights, by the way, that today have not yet recovered and that they will never recover, the difference in the extra payment of 2012, which have already recovered it, and even before we approved it in the Public Employment Act, which was scheduled for 2018. We've already met in 2016. So let a socialist come here to talk about cuts to public employees is of great value, because it's like coming to talk about pensions, when you were the only government to freeze pensions to pensioners in this country, in May 2011, gentlemen. The hemerotheque doesn't lie. [[Murmurs.]] I also told Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo that we were the worst in the world, that we were cutting off in public services, in social services, in basic services... Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, because to be the worst in the world, the Greeks are the truth that they are masoches, because every four years they renew their trust in the People's Party and every four years they still give more confidence to the People's Party and less to you. [[Applause]] You say we've changed the law 56 times in seven years, but the law is yours. The law is from 2007, it's from the Bipartite, and it's logical that the People's Party doesn't match its model; it's logical that we had to change it. Now, it's absolutely false, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, that you say we've modified to lower the safety strips. That's fake. We've now changed the fringes and put them in 50 meters, and by the way, you agree with that and you've agreed with us, just like the Marea Group and like the Galego Nationalist Block -- and about that I'm going to do a separate piece, about the Galician Nationalist Block in the Law of Measures. Mr. Sánchez, you say that, since we have an absolute majority, it's like saying that the earth is flat. Well, it's like we're saying vaccines don't work; more or less it's the same thing, isn't it? You were in the Galician Nationalist Block in 2006, and you keep insisting that the People's Party speaks of incendiary terrorism. But, look, in 2006, when you were in the Galego Nationalist Block, when your boss was Mr. Quintana and the advisor was Suárez Canal, they said this: "The BNG attributes the fires in Galicia to environmental terrorists acting in a coordinated manner. The BNG today attributed Galician fires to environmental terrorists acting with a new modus operandi, in a coordinated manner at different geographic points of the community." You can say that, and the People's Party can't say that this is environmental terrorism. Well, look, Mr. Sánchez, yes, it was environmental terrorism, and just as the Galego Nationalist Block said when you were in the Galego Nationalist Block, when the Galego Nationalist Block continued to be the Galego Nationalist Block, and when the Socialist Party ruled with the Galego Nationalist Block and with you, the People's Party also says so, because, unfortunately, in Galicia there was burning terrorism those days and any day there was a fire and any fire, especially around the houses. Look, you say you give up using the Land Bank. Land use is transferred to the Land Bank, but the owners are still owners, Mr. Sánchez. And then you talk about the mountain communities. Out of 3,000 mountain communities in Galicia, 1,000 have no directive. I asked him at the commission and you didn't answer me. What solution do you propose to the 1,000 mountain communities that do not have joint directives in Galicia? I'm still waiting for you to tell me your solution. Mrs. Rodil — this is the separate part of the Galego Nationalist Block — look, to reject the use of this law you have quite well used the amendments, have tabled 47 amendments. I think there was parliamentary debate and there was social debate. You come here and say there wasn't. Yes, there was. Here too -- this legislation not yet, but in the past legislation -- when we made some amendments to some law by single article, you also criticized and said it wasn't democratic, there was no debate. Look, I think there has been a lot of parliamentary debate in this law, even we have reached a lot of agreements, even this morning — and Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo can say so. You tell me which question you submitted as amended in the law we did not have it in consideration, we did not have it in dialogue, we did not appreciate it, or we did not have it in mind. I don't think you can say no. They may say that we don't support them, yes; but that we don't dialogue, that we don't care, and that we don't look at them, that they can't say. And, look, the self-amendment of the 2007 Fire Law is what you do because the 2007 law is yours. Today you bring here amendments to the Fire Law which you passed and which you proposed when you had a majority in this Parliament. So the self-amendment is yours. We do not go back, you are the ones in charge, Mrs Rodil — let me use the same expression. You're welcome. And why? Because, look, they copied our amendments. It's a laugh, gentlemen of the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Laughter]] I'll explain why they copied our amendments. You say it's the amendments to the Fegamp. Well, on November 7, the president of the board in this same gallery offered a country pact. And he said that the first place we could agree was in the law of measures — Mr. Sánchez is waiting because he knows what I'm going to say. Well, the People's Party worked and drafted amendments, and on November 15th, the Vice-President of the Union and the Rural Media Adviser presented the amendments of the Popular Parliamentary Group to the Fegamp. And someone from the Fegamp — I suppose some of his mayors — gave them the amendments from the People's Party presented to the Fegamp to the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. Ah!, and the Galician Nationalist Block liked the amendments of the People's Party and said, copy and paste. What did he do? Well, he introduced them like that. Logically, from the 15th until the 17th -- which was the end date of the amendments -- our group has made some changes, so there are some sentences, some words, which are not exactly the same, but the rest is exactly the same. They didn't even even change Galicia to Galicia — which you like so much the term "Galiza" —: Official Journal of Galicia, Banco de Terras de Galicia, Galicia... they didn't even modify "Galice". [[Murmurs.]] That's the situation. [[Murmurs.]] We are delighted that you share the forestry policy of the People's Party. But don't deny it, Mrs. Rodil, they don't deny it to us. Now you can't say that the forestry policy of the People's Party is far from reality, because you have assumed in your amendments the amendments of the People's Party; they have copied and beat with stitches and commas the amendments of the People's Party. That they weren't the amendments to the Fegamp, Mrs. Rodil, they were the amendments that the People's Party moved you to the Fegamp and that the Fegamp transferred you to the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Applause]] I want to be positive here, and from that question that you said I want to emphasize that this has led us to very important agreements on forest policy, and I think that's good for Galicia. If you had not put the interests of Galicia before you on other occasions, the interests of the Galician Nationalist Block are certain that we would reach many more agreements for the sake of Galicia. The problem is that you sometimes, not to compromise with the People's Party, vote that not systematically. You're looking at the extent to which even in this law you're keeping today an amendment to the full for strips of protection—right, Mrs Rodil?—the 100 meters. But, of course, in the committee, the Galician Nationalist Block voted in favour of a transaction we had made by the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Tide so that the protection strip was 50 meters away. Yes, yes, look, I'll tell you exactly what it is, Mrs. Rodil. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] You voted in favour of that transaction. And, of course, come now to say... look, it's the B3 transaction of Amendment 10 to the PP with 34, 35, 38 and 39 to En Marea, with 34, 35, 36 and 37 to the PSOE and with Amendment 11 to the BNG. We refer to Article 15(7), which amends Article 21 of the Law on the Prevention and Defence of Forest Fires in Galicia, setting at 50 metres the biomass management fringes. Well, of course, in view of this, Mrs. Rodil, we have to think: What is the model of the Galego Nationalist Block?, what is the forest policy of the Galego Nationalist Block? Man!, from what I see, quite coincides with the PP. It's not bad. But tell them, don't deny it, don't say that the People's Party is far from reality, that the People's Party has no feet on the floor. No, look, we think we have feet enough on the floor when we can consensualize many things, not only with you, see copy and paste, but also with the Socialist Party and with En Marea, with which we also come to agreements in the strips of protection, in the 400 meters. At Marea he refused to put the 500 to put 400. I think those issues are in favour. Mr. Sánchez, you don't feel bad about reaching agreements with the People's Party, it's good, because, look, it's good for Galicia. Mr. Sánchez, it's good for Galicia. Look, we've reached as important agreements as to declare the protection strips — as it said — in the 50 meters, the housing protection strips in 400, including campgrounds and gas stations, and forwarding a month, from June to May, the cleaning of biomass. Well, that's possible because we're in a law that we approve today. If that'd been delayed and we'd be able to work on changing the law, we'd probably not come to May with this change. So I think we have to congratulate ourselves for that. Now, it's true that mayors have a very important responsibility and that Members have a very important responsibility. Will the Galician Union help the mayors economically? Of course you do, ladies. But, of course, it's that we with this legislative amendment that we make it easier for mayors, precisely on those farms where they can't go in and they can't clean up biomass, they can act and they can either go in either automatically or even with judicial authorization when it's not for estates that are the domicile. I therefore believe that it is essential that these kinds of questions of procedure which have so far made many obstacles to the municipalities in order to carry out the subsidiary cleaning on those farms where the owners did not do so. I'm asking them to move them to the mayors to do their job. Deputies have to do their work, and the Union too. But you can't come here to blame the whole Council of Galicia; that's not it. And you can't come up here to the table, Mr. Sánchez, the dead in the fires at the Galician Union, because that's the carnage policy, which you... yes, yes, it's the one you criticized. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] They were talking about criticism. Well, don't you do the same! Since they're different, don't you do the same. It's not right, Mr. Sánchez. It's not right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u22	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u23	It's not good, man, it's not good! [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I think it's a good step that we started to make today with these agreements in the Law of Measures. And I hope that the Galician Nationalist Block will clarify itself with the forest policy model to make more agreements in the study commission and that among all of us we can take measures that favour Galicia's future, and above all on the subject of fires, which is a very important issue. And besides, as we've all seen, unfortunately, on that fateful October weekend, it's very dangerous, because they get closer and closer to the houses and closer to the people. Apart from the environmental issue, which we all care about, Mr. Sánchez... yes, yes. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, well, I'll be done with my time, Mr. Sánchez, and there's also the president to tell me. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Don't tell me when I have to finish. I ask them to be responsible and that, for the sake of Galicia, we can reach more agreements in this matter. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u25	Thank you, President. I'm going to take it where Mrs Prado has left it now: that this whole thing, which has to do with the management of the mountain, with the forest policy and with the subject of fires, is an important issue, we agree. It's an important subject, and it was already before October 15, this weekend, and of the 50,000 hectares burned down in a single day practically. And I'm glad one of the issues you referred to at the first point — I think — of your intervention. I'm glad, moreover, I tell you, immensely because you recognized that, if it wasn't for that day, on October 15th, for the 50,000 hectares burned and for all that was lost on October 15th, they wouldn't have changed anything at all about the management policy of the mountain, the prevention policy and the forest policy that you've been doing for eight years. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I think I told you in the Commission — I don't know if it was exactly the same point in the debate I'm going to mention now — that it seems as if there was nothing going on here until yesterday. There have been no political decisions here, here it has not been ruled, here it has not been practically nine years with the responsibility of government in the board of Galicia. He said we amended ourselves by the Prevention Act of 2007. I think I did it in my first intervention and I repeat it again now, in case I wasn't clear enough: that law was reformed into two thirds of a last disposition in the 2012 Mountain Law. What we are now trying to do is to recompose in part what there was and be able to move as far as we can about what you've unraveled -- I said it in the first intervention and I'm doing it again now -- between the years 2009 and 2010, which has brought us to the point where we are today. [[Applause]] I have said it on more occasions and I repeat it now: October 15 was not the first time this country burned down, unfortunately for all. Everyone recalls the 2006 fire strike and the measures taken within the framework of that committee of inquiry which was set up in this Parliament and that you boycotted; the measures taken by that government to try not to repeat what we will be living in the year 2006. 2017, October 15, 2017, and we practically have a similar day again. That's what can't be, let's go forward and backward and have to happen situations like those we live in in October, in September or last year to react by a government. It's an important issue, yes, but it doesn't have to burn down the mountain so that we realize that we have a priority issue, which will also depend to a good extent on the future of this country, and which there is no need for it to be taken action on this. As far as the amendments are concerned, if they are from the People's Party, why would you trade them? What did the debates come to, and what was the search for agreements? I think -- we've said it on one occasion, but I think it's something negative in order to find agreements -- it's not good that if you have a vision of dialogue, a vision of agreement or a vision of consensus as if it were a street of one sense, and it's that when I get the reason, well, but if I don't give the reason, there's no dialogue, there's no agreement, there's no negotiation, and there's not much less consensus. We, though -- and I also said it in my first intervention -- to question the use of this tool -- because you also said in your intervention that, recognizing that it was not the best of the tools... -- would you like to have taken it so you wouldn't be the best of the tools! Because, if today was the first time the Accompanying Law was used, the Tax and Administrative Measures Act, but since 2009 every year that is debated and approved budgets in this House goes the Budget Act accompanied by the Tax and Administrative Measures Act, making use of it which does not correspond to the nature for which it was created! [[Applause]] The majority of the legislative reforms, not those of this year — that too — do not correspond to most of them last year, because they did not perform that function to facilitate the execution of budgets. We repeat it again — and with this end — we say it in committee, I said it again in the first intervention and I repeat it again: a desire for dialogue, a constructive spirit. Proposals, we have them, we bring them to this House before the country starts to burn down, we send a letter signed by the national spokesperson to the president of the Galician Union after the Great Pedrogão for us all to sit down and talk. So I was talking about the BNG of a country agreement on mountain management and forest policy. They haven't answered! [[Applause]] Welcome to the dialogue! [[Applause]] We hope that research commission will be fruitful, but, well, given what we hear here, we'll go with caution, at least. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado del Río, look, the women and men of the PSdeG are brave, and we are proud to belong to this political party. [[Applause]] And, look — I said — thanks to that -- no, no, no, listen, please, because I'm sure it affects you in your life too — courage, thanks to the courage of the men and women of the Socialist Party, there are four basic pillars in the Greek society and Spanish society: education, equal opportunities; health, equal access; non-contributory pensions; nobody stays in the crib; dependency, equality for all and for all. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I am a socialist woman, a brave and proud woman of my membership in this group. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Prado del Río, at the time of the government of President Zapatero, there were restrictions, 5% were lowered in 2010 by the salaries of the state's men and women, but it is that with Rajoy, with President Rajoy, the extra payment was abolished in 2012, and with President Feijóo, in addition, in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, additionally a reduction was imposed for all autonomic employees who account for an average of 5% annually. This was the only autonomous community where it applied, and if it's not true, tell the 85,000 public servants of the Galician Union and the instrumental agencies. Tell him, please; lie to me here, please, with data. Please deny me if this is what I'm telling you is not true. Look, Mrs. Prado del Río, pension fund: 2011, 66,000 million euros; 2017, 8,000 million euros. Is there anything else to discuss, Mrs. Prado del Río? Please leave here and discuss with us with data; data that is published, not with some that you use and do not know where they are published. But look, the biggest recognition of the guilt of the People's Party is that you vote for 48 amendments to the law itself. You yourself, right now, Mrs. Prado del Río, have just assumed in your intervention that guilt, and you also say that it must be done quickly because it is urgent. Look, I repeat: they've been running for nine years without interruption, and nine years in which Galicia burns and there's fires every year, absolutely every year. I told you at my exhibition that what happened in 2006 was a catastrophe, and another of the biggest catastrophes is that it has to happen again because of its inactivity, for not having done anything at all in nine years of its government. So they assume it, and really this is the best recognition of that guilt that will be repeated to them all the time. Look, you say we don't have our knees and they're wonderful and very nice. The only thing he really said in this rostrum is they win by an absolute majority; that's true, we never discussed it. But with that absolute majority they take advantage of it... yes, yes, we have it super clear. [[Interruptions.]] But, look, you do apply a roller; we present 63 amendments, approved one and traded with us 11; that is, 19%, I told you in my previous exhibition. [[Murmurs.]] I am going to follow, because it has not given me time before, one of the proposals we have put forward, and I want to make it quite clear that we socialists have proposed in our amendments the creation of an agency for the protection of the Mount of Galicia; an agency — which is not a public company — that would be integrated into the corresponding rural councillorship, which would act as a coordinator of all available means against forest fires, which would also coordinate and try to channel all actions aimed at preventing and combating forest fires and with the basic objective of acting as an efficient tool for the exercise of the functions related to the actions referred to for protection...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u28	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u29	...and defence of the mountains against forest fires and support for local administrations, enabling the material, economic and necessary means and resources to achieve the established ends, because you once again invite and the municipalities pay. Yes, Counselor, don't give him your head. You give more and more responsibility to the municipalities, but you pay them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u31	I won't have time. Carriage policy. Mrs. Prado, carriage policy. Paradoxical that you come to say it when in 2006 Mr. Feijóo said, "With us there were no dead." That's it, for carriage policy we already have the great champion, Mr. Feijóo. Then you tried to undermine the conduct of the BNG by saying that the vice president and counsellor went to Fegamp to hand over the amendments of the Popular Group to the bill of the German Government. It's locked up. I mean, a counselor and the vice president that they have to deliver is a bill by the Government of Wales and not the amendments by the People's Group, because what it means is that the bill that they handed over fifteen days later was no longer worth anything. That's the perfect definition you just brought here Mrs. Prado. The bellow made politics. Yes, sir! I mean, you bring measures to modify the Fire Prevention Act... yes, yes, well, now listen, Mrs. Prado, that I also kick sometimes by saying these things. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] You can't be at all, hurting the BNG, can you? Because sometimes you forget that there are other groups that can also listen, Mrs. Prado. You confirm the gossip, you confirm, besides... that I didn't put the dead on anyone, never; I never did. I am different from you. You're the ones who put the dead in the face. All I said was that it had to happen -- and you recognized it -- so that you would take measures like, for example, modifying the Fire Prevention Act, and you recognized it and you can't deny it. I mean, here before everything worked well, the Sofors worked well -- even though only five, 800 hectares were created -- the Fire Prevention Act worked well, although you couldn't get into the farms to do the subsidiary executions; the land management was very well, the houses were far from the trees -- everything, until four people were burned and killed, right? But while the opposition was here before, you're proud and self-reliant and you don't listen and don't do anything, because here the only representatives of the citizens are you. That's what they did. That's why, of course, it's true that there had to be four dead and 50,000 hectares so that you would have reacted, even if it was to make makeup, not seeing big country agreements, when they're fire prevention agreements that talk about biomass management. Those aren't big country agreements. We hope to arrive at large country agreements if they abandon that altar of sovereignty that you have; of course, we have always done so. We just approved an LNP to review the Dry Plan and the Water Plan. Let's see if they do it. We also approved this honourable Member's initiative a plan to promote ecological agriculture, in which you have done nothing, or a plan to encourage the incorporation of young people and girls — that is 2% ownership of agricultural holdings that are under 35 — and nothing has been done. Of course we want to reach agreements! Our problem is that you don't listen. They just want to stick to what you say. And you want us to say that these are big agreements? No, man, no! Of course, we give up at 500 meters, we're not going to put ourselves in for this to be done... but we're also saying that it's not worth anything you've done, just like it's not worth anything to Metaga, the Law on Improvement of Agricultural Structures, Without Resources, Without Strict Policy, It's going to be and going on over the years. This isn't fixed in the CEO alone, Mrs. Prado. So you're making it easier for the municipalities to enter the subsidiary executions, so more will come in. That's what it costs, Mrs. Prado. That costs! Entering and unwinding costs the municipalities, and you last year don't give them one more euro in the budgets. What kind of coherence do you have? Not one more euro! Then one of the questions. You say again: the municipalities have to do their job. You here, as a group that supports the Greek Government, speaking of mountains, speaking of territorial planning, speaking of the rural environment, can't throw balloons out. They can't throw balloons out! The rural desertification situation is primarily responsible for the policies of the Galician Union. You're making policies to drive people out of the countryside. It's not the city hall's fault. The mayors, who face their neighbours, don't want people to walk away from their municipalities generally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u32	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u33	...but you don't set the conditions for it to be so. They don't blame the data on abandonment and aging of the rural, they don't blame that in the joint management of the forest surface we have the data we have, they don't blame the neighboring mountains in common... you just said a data -- again throwing stones at their roof. You just said 1,000 neighbors have no directive. In 89 the Law was passed by the neighboring mountains in common hand, which already contained in its articulated the declaration of the mountain in state of abandonment. It's nothing new, Mrs. Prado. That's what's happening is that from that up to this one he's done nothing but abandon the management of the neighboring mountains in common...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u35	And that means the failure of your policies; failure... well, or not, or it's deliberate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u37	...because you want them to come in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u39	...enterprises like Ence and even above enjoy their tax deductions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u40	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the end, Mr. Sánchez, you have not yet found out that deductions are for natural persons. It's just that you're so clumsy that PP is friends with companies that you're all day thinking about PP-enterprises, PP-enterprises... leave the business wild for something else, man! I explained to you the other day that if the PP only ruled for companies, we would have fewer Members than the Members who have the Nationalist Block Galego. We, look, we govern and we make policies for the whole world: for Albanians, for carpenters, for plumbers, for doctors, for lawyers, also for businesses, for workers, for ordinary people, that's... yeah, it looks like an ad; it's what you do, that they're always saying you're the ones representing the common people. [[Murmurs.]] Well, look, no, because the common people also vote for the People's Party; otherwise, we would hardly have the election results we have, Mr. Sánchez. If we were to defend companies, we would hardly have the election results we have. But, well, you go on with that speech, which goes the way it goes and it won't go wrong for us. Look, Mrs. Rodil, you, from what I see, you haven't read the Law of Measurement. It is true that it is very important that in the Law of Measures we amended the Fire Law, but it is not because there was the fire strike of October, that the Law of Measures was already drafted, unfortunately, when it was the fire strike, and there was already an article referring to the modification to the procedure of subsidiary execution. I don't know if you haven't read it or come here and lie or say things that aren't true. It's not that we reacted after the fire strike, no, the subsidiary execution was already in the Law of measures, unfortunately, before the fires were in place, because we already knew it was an impediment with which the municipalities were being found to be able to execute the cleaning of biomass in the mountains. Now, if you want to come here to say other things, come on! I also remind you that the 2006 commission you said here was research. It wasn't research, it was study. Well, call things by their name, because then what happens happens. Look, you're asking why we're trading. I'm not going to do the dirty game that Mr. Sánchez wants me to do, but, look, we're trading things, of course we're trading things; others aren't trading them because they were our amendments, logically. Some things have changed because from the document that was presented to the Fegamp by Mr Rueda... which is one more member of this group, Mr Sánchez — you forget that we also have Members in the Government — and, logically, as a Member, you can present our amendments to the Fegamp. Because, look, we're talking to the things we need to talk to and we're trying to apply measures that are closest to reality. That's why even today, Fegamp has not opposed any of the measures proposed by PP. Therefore, so far from reality, Mr. Sánchez, should not be, so that you may say that we legislate from the offices. No, we legislate listening to people, and of course the mayors have a lot to say, of course, and that's why we present the amendments to the mayors, of course, yes, for them to say what they think, because we find it very important. Look, the sad thing about it, Mrs. Rodil, is that you see the amendments of the People's Party well because you didn't know they were from the People's Party. They made a feast to the blind and they enjoyed it. I ask them to get rid of those prejudices that they have against the People's Party in the commission of study, that they are realistic and accept the issues that they have to accept and remember the issues that they have to deal with for the sake of Galicia, not because they come from the PP or because they come from where they come from, because you consider that they are important to the country and that they will solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. Look, Mrs. Rodriguez Rumbo, I'm brave too, but I think it's not a matter of coming here to say who's braver or less braver, and of course I'm proud to belong to the People's Party, I'd lack more! And you'd only have to go up to this rostrum saying you're not proud of the Socialist Party. Well, I wouldn't be surprised, in the days that run, but it's true that when one part of a party, logically, it's because you're proud of that party. But look, social rights as well as equality policies are neither exclusivity nor monopoly of left-wing governments. The People's Party has also ruled and has also made many advances in these matters, so I'm proud to belong to the People's Party. And look, the extra pay has recovered it, and the reduction in the salary of between 5 and 15 percent that eliminated them in May 2011 to this day have not yet recovered it or, unfortunately, they will never recover it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u42	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u43	And look, if you want data on pensions, I'll tell you where the Toledo Pact comes from, remember?: when the People's Party took the inheritance of a socialist government that had left pensions broken. So look, lessons on pensions and cuts to economic rights to Socialist Party officials, none! Mr. Sánchez, look, in the Approgal — you know what happens is that they don't listen, when the President of the Board says they don't listen to him — he said that seven million euros that go to Aprogal are going to get the city councils to do that work of what we're talking about today, of course, yes, and the measures that have been taken, the tractors that he's assigned to the councillor to do the specific work on this subject. You don't look good, either, because you make your proposals. That's what the commission is for, to make proposals, but be positive, because, look, I'm surprised at the curious way in which you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u45	Yes, let me finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u46	Finish up, please, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u47	Whether they're big deals or whether they're starting points, I think it's important to put in value that there are things we're agreeing today that benefit the Greeks and the Greeks. Not a single spokesman of the opposition spoke of these agreements, not a single word, because it is more difficult for them to criticize the People's Party than to serve Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u48	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u49	...to serve Galicia and solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. Too bad, ladies!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u50	Thank you. Debates and votes of the Ditame, delivered by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law on public shows and recreational activities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u51	There are amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Socialist and En Marea. The president of Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, Mr César Fernández Gil, has the floor for the presentation of the dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u52	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. The bill was entered into Parliament's Register on September 19, 2017. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 19 September 2017, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to attend by the First Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs Commission. The En Marea Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to the whole, which was qualified on 9 October and rejected at the plenary session on 7 November 2017. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, 61; the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, 45; and the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, 31, which were qualified on 8 November 2017. Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, at its meeting on 10 November 2017, appointed the following rapporteurs: by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Fr. José Alberto Pazos Couñago, as holder, and Ms. Paula Prado Del Río as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, holder, Ms. María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and, alternate, Ms. Luca Chao Pérez; by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, appointed Ms. Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo as holder, and Ms. Maria Concepción Burgo López as alternate; and by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, as its holder, Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and, as alternate, Ms. Olía Rodil Fernández. The Constitutive Session of the Presidency took place on 13 November 2017, with my assistance, as Chairman of Commission 1st, and of all the rapporteurs. At the following meetings, which took place on 15 and 27 November 2017, the amendments were analysed and offered for transactions. On 29 November 2017, the Pénencia finished its report, which was the subject of debate and adoption at the 1st meeting of the Commission on 7 December 2017. All the recommendations made by the Phoenician Assembly in your report were taken into consideration. The bill has 42 articles, an additional layout, six transitional layouts, and six last ones, structured into four titles. Title I, under the term "General Provisions", regulates the object and scope of law enforcement, contains definitions of essential concepts and lists autonomous and municipal competences. This title also includes the appropriate prohibitions and technical and security conditions to ensure the rights of assistants and the integrity of the spaces in which the above activities are developed. The Committee on Public Shows and Recreational Activities of Galicia is hereby established as a consultative and coordinating body, and finally it has the establishment of the Register of Companies and Establishments for Shows or Recreational Activities. Title II refers to the "Administrative Intervention Plan" and refers it to Law 9/2013 on 19 December, to Galicia's economic entrepreneurship and competitiveness. And Title III contains the general aspects of the organization and the development of shows and recreational activities, such as the right of admission and access control; surveillance and security; protection of minors; schedules; entries; and advertising. And also a chapter designed to regulate the rights and obligations of the public, artists, performers and organizers. Finally, Title IV contains the articles relating to surveillance, inspection of establishments open to the public and its sanctioning regime. So far a brief summary of the parliamentary process carried out by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, which I chair today, corresponding to the plenary session of this House for its final approval. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u53	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. We begin with the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u54	Good afternoon. The first thing we have to regret in the debate on this matter is matters in form. There are fundamental questions, and so are questions of form. We are going to start with the forms, because the truth is that they were not the right ones on the part of the People's Party, and we must regret the lack of will for dialogue, for debate and for agreement on this issue, a water that is attributable, above all, to the voice of the People's Party, Mr Pazos. And besides, as we had the opportunity to compare with other debates, in other presentations, I think it was obvious. Of course, what was proposed here from the very first moment is that this law should be passed at all costs in the month of December, and all the proceedings of the Presidency and the Commission were subject to that deadline. In other words, it was more important than the own debate of the Parliament, it was more important than the will and the possibility of effectively improving the law. It was intended to meet a deadline, and, of course, there were issues of an absolute lack of delicacy in relation to groups, such as — for example — to convene the Commission itself on December 7 at the same time as the debates in the budget committees; that is simply because a deadline had to be met. Of course, we think we have missed a good opportunity to make an analysis and contrast between all groups and with approaches, in addition, that have come to us from outside, with different visions, to make a true enrichment of the text. There was a first meeting at which the People's Party told us: we will accept this, this and that, and the rest will not be discussed. And there was no possibility of really establishing a dialogue and debate on these issues. And I have to denounce here that the treatment that has been given to parliamentary groups has been much worse than to the sectors themselves that have to do with the application of the law, which is to say; let this happen which shows what we understand is a democratic deficit, a low democratic quality of this Parliament, and which is the responsibility of the People's Party, which uses the style of taxation, of order and command, of authoritarianism, a bulldozer style that in some cases seems more like a tractor style or chimp, but which tries to pass over to the other groups whenever it has a chance. And of course, the excuse of these rushes was the urgency to pass the law. Well, you've been in a hurry now, when we've spent twenty-one years of normative vacuum, of legal emptiness — that there's no specific law in this matter — and four years of handling this bill, and suddenly in two months we have to approve it in a hurry and we have to stop debating, discussing, listening to and bringing to Parliament, too, different opinions. Of course, the result of all this is a bill that in the process before reaching Parliament has a clear deficit in participation and dialogue, because it has been consulted only with certain sectors, related to the scope of implementation. There has been, and I think, a very broad ignorance in many sectors that have to do with, for example, artistic activities or cultural associationism, neighborhood associationism, with the ANPAs, who will be affected by this law and do not know it, and it is also true that in those cases that were consulted and talked to the sectors, then they were also passed on to the claims presented, because of the 67-four of them they were able to pass that filter of the People's Party, and of course they came to us with the justification that it was not necessary, or even, the statement of the Economic and Social Council. And well, if there was this deficit of participation in the prior processing, it was still more evident during parliamentary processing, because — for example — there is a tool — you know that you claim both the transparency of the good government — as Lexisla with us, it turns out that only — is part of the writings that they are sent to them to do or that they intend to make people who are doing practice here, to fill up Lexisla with us a little, apart from that, there was only one collective who presented you come to this process, through this mechanism, which was the Association of Technical Manufacturers of Spectacles. And they didn't even have the delicacy of debate and talk about it, to propose a debate on the proposals in the European Parliament, i.e. that they have completely ignored and despised the approaches of this collective, which were also reasonable proposals, sensible and constructive proposals, such as — for example — that the qualification of professional training of senior technicians in the production of spectacles and audiovisuals, which is a title that exists in the Greek education system and that has a great deal to do with this law, and logic is that when we talk about competent technicians who take this title into account. You didn't even consider them before and not in this process either. And then, of course, within the transparency of good government and all these books they sell, it turns out that Article 115.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House has also been amended in its day, which allows a hearing process to listen to law-related collectives here. The opposition groups propose to bring you here 22 groups, which could be more or less, but — at least — the collectives come here, and you deny each other loudly, they don't want to listen to society, they don't want to listen to the collectives, when it was a great opportunity to contrast the law with the opinion of all these sectors. This is the idea that you have of democracy, participation and dialogue. And the excuse they made was that this would delay the approval of the law. Well, look, I was only a month late, it would be approved in the middle of January, and after four years of processing don't tell me that delaying a month's approval was a drama. And in addition, this we have consulted with these collectives and they have told us that they would prefer to wait for a month for the adoption of the law and be able to have this opportunity to come to Parliament, to speak in Parliament and to be heard in Parliament, that for this it is the parliaments, to listen to society, to listen to the collectives. But nothing! We must therefore denounce here the poor or null acceptivity, sensitivity and democratic spirit of the People's Party, which has never allowed this procedure of hearing provided for in Parliament's Rules of Procedure to be applied. Well, there are fundamental questions in which we disagree — in substance and in a way, as we have already said — with this legal text. The People's Party in the debates of the European Parliament and the Commission accepted small changes, but, as we said, no real effort was made to debate and to try to reach agreements that substantially improved the text. You're really what you're proposing, your attitude, is: we're going to accept each opposition group here three or four smaller issues and then we're going to take a balance. We accept 12, 10, 15 small amendments, and then we make a quantitative balance, and yes, we are very dialogueative and very receptive because we modify I don't know how much of the articles. They do these typical quantitative studies, I don't know how many words, so many percent of words, and we're cool. No, that's not good, Mr. Peace, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! You act with authoritarian automatism — this is your attitude — of rigidity and lack of flexibility. There are, therefore, many fundamental issues that have not even allowed discussion with that attitude. And, in any case, there are some of them at the expense of further policy development. And, of course, what you do with these laws, more and more frequently, is to transfer responsibilities to the municipalities without the corresponding means and without the corresponding funding. This is very easy, let's pass to the council, for example, the powers in inspection and control of shows, and let's get them sorted out! Cities have sometimes difficulty running this competition, how much more small and medium-sized municipalities! Unless you're what you want, in practice, to privatize those control functions that the municipalities have to do. The same in the case of schedules. I mean, more and more competences for the municipalities and less and less means for the municipalities. We also think that the reality of cultural and recreational activity in the associative field is very poorly solved: activities that make collectives such as cultural associations, neighbors or ANPA. We also have to report here that it has worsened in the final drafting of the text. You have deleted a section that really covered a lot of activities that social and neighbouring groups are doing, that have now disappeared and that remains at the mercy of arbitrariness or the criterion, in any case, of the councils. There was an article providing for activities free of responsible declaration: section C, public shows and recreational activities of artistic or cultural interest, with a capacity of less than 100 people if they are carried out occasionally and do not require installation assembly. It seems most logical and reasonable to leave out of the obligation of this responsible statement these kinds of activities that do a lot of collectives in the country, and it turns out that they now delete precisely this article, which we think will put many activities at risk or which will put many obstacles and difficulties on them to many of the activities organized by social groups. You also keep -- and in this they are absolutely repeat and persistent -- the exceptionality for the tourdas. That's right, we make animal welfare laws, but we allow bullies to be mistreated. We make laws of public shows, and we guarantee to the board the powers to authorize the tourdas, it's not going to be that there are municipalities, for example, that they have this competition, like Pontevedra, and that they forbid you from going to the Peregrine parties to the bull market, to pampering in cruel and bloody shows like the tourdas. You see, it turns out that Junta is the only competency she has is to authorize activities that develop in more than one municipality, and in addition to the towers. [[Applause]] We must defend the Spanish patriotic traditions, timeless and untouchable, and then the tourdas, the competence of the board of Galicia. And the same can be said about the access of minors to Taurine shows. It turns out you're keeping in the text the ban on access to Taurine shows in enclosures closed to people under 12 years of age, but those of 13 years and those of 14 years of age can go to these kinds of shows. And if I'm outdoors, because all sorts of minors can go to these kinds of shows. You will tell me what kind of example you have in relation to the welfare and care of animals and the minimal sensitivity you have to give on this matter are proposing to you with this law! Or what it has to do with children's access to shows, concerts, which have solved badly, and what other laws, for example in the Madrid Community, with a change that they made in 2015, resolved much better, differentiating up to 16 years and from 16 years. As we have already stated to them in the previous whole debate, we believe that the regime of administrative processing that you, with that wonderful Law 9/2013, of entrepreneurship, fixed through the prior communication regime and then maintained, obliging the councils that already had orders to change the system. They maintained this regime in the Law of the Land, they remained in the Rules of the Law of the Land, and now it turns out that by art of brilbiirloque in the Law of Shows they establish the regime of responsible declaration, with which there is an absolute galimatia in the administrative processing. There are activities that are subject to the responsible statement, and there are other activities that are subject to the prior communication regime, and a cafeteria has one regime and a bakery has another one, which is an absolute mess for staff working in the administration, for private sector technicians and for people in general, who doesn't understand the criteria they use for these issues. And I'm done now, telling you that we have a lot of reasons to vote against, fundamental reasons and also reasons for form, but we're not going to vote against, we're going to abstain, and I'm going to tell you why we're going to abstain. We're going to abstain from the request that some of the professional groups we've been made to talk to, that we've been told that it's better a bad law than having nothing. It's better a bad law — like this one — than having nothing, and this is not exactly a compliment to the work that the Government and the People's Party have done. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor of Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and all again. Today we are now adopting a second law, or rather, another law will be passed in this Parliament: the draft law on public shows and recreation activities in Galicia. The law that the People's Party — even now — wants to approve with a great deal of urgency, as was passed by the Law of Tax Measures, which suddenly comes in a hurry to them. The truth is that it is rather curious — it must be repeated and pointed out — that after 21 years since the Autonomous Community has competed, and that 17 of them have been ruled by the People's Party, and 9 continuously by Mr Núñez Feijóo, now suddenly, a tremendous hurry is born to have to pass this law immediately. By the way, a law that, if I am not mistaken, has been working on it for three or about four years, and which, therefore, could have done in a more peaceful way, with which surely a law would come out much more consensual and much more adapted to the sector that is going to be regulated. Finally, the Government's bill for its debate is a unclear project, which does not guarantee legal certainty, legally dispersed, without consensus with the sector. Neither neighbor associations nor consumer and user associations have been taken into account, and I remind them that they have accepted, of the 13 claims submitted, only 4, without the preliminary reports of all sectors affected and not adapted to the reality of our country. In any case, the Socialist Parliamentary Group believes that it is an absolutely necessary law — and so we recognise it from the very first moment — but that it has to provide legal security to the sector and participants; it has to protect users and viewers; it has to guarantee compliance with fundamental rights and ensure orderly coexistence. Therefore, we socialists present a total of 45 amendments, based on consultations with the sector, consultations with some community associations, consumer and user associations and municipalities of different sizes. We therefore tabled 45 amendments with a view to significantly improving the content of that law, both in the definition of content and in the clarification of precepts, which we believe did not provide sufficient legal certainty. In the process of passing this law they accepted the incorporation of many of our amendments, as well as some other transactions, because the socialists — I said in my previous intervention as regards the Law of Measures — are a responsible parliamentary group, and for that responsibility we accept the incorporation of the best proposals by our group that we believe will improve the lives of the men and women of Galicia, of our country. Our amendments focus on several aspects. In the field of application, we try to clearly define the public shows and recreational activities in which the law must be applied. In the definitions, we introduced the definition of portable or demountable installations, which gives greater legal certainty. In municipal jurisdictions, in order to ensure the legal certainty of the parties concerned, the regulation is collected in municipal law. As for technical and safety conditions, we introduce accessibility as a mandatory requirement, adaptation of technical and security conditions to the type of public spectacle or recreational activity where it is different from the one envisaged. The power of the municipalities to establish other limits, requirements or additional characteristics within their competences, as well as the regulation on excessive concentration of public establishments and recreational activities, in order to ensure coexistence with other human or social activities. In insurance matters, not by limiting the conditions of minimum capital insurance to just outside, but also by taking into account the type of public spectacle or leisure activity that will take place. We also amend topics on cooperation and administrative collaboration. Let the Autonomous Community call on the municipalities, through the Fegamp, to develop cooperation agreements with each of the municipalities, in which the necessary personal or material means are established to develop the content of that law and the costs arising from this delegation of competence, as well as to ensure the support of the Autonomous Community as long as these agreements do not materialise. We also set out amendments to clarify the Committee on Public Shows and Recreational Activities in Galicia, and we intend to give it real content to the committee, as well as to ensure the representation of all the affected parties: the Autonomous Community, the Fegamp and the representative entities of the sector, as well as to ensure its meeting at least once a year. We have established as a function to issue reports on the provisions of this law; to promote coordination of competent public administrations and actions to be developed; to develop studies and to formulate proposals for the achievement of the objectives set out in that law and to report on provisions made by the Autonomous Community on specific issues: catalogues, opening and closing times, monitoring, security and access control services. In the Business and Establishment Register we propose that public ownership facilities which are likely to be used for the development of public shows or recreational activities should be added within the register. In the case of the access control service, force the Galician board to determine, by means of a regulation, the establishments open to the public and the recreational activities that should have access control service with qualified personnel. In the case of self-monitoring and security services, the Authority of the Autonomous Community shall, by means of a regulation, require public shows and recreational activities to be provided with special security measures, private security services with the conditions and requirements contained in the private security legislation, and specific admission services for the control of access to the public. In the case of the protection of minors, we present an alternative text setting out the limitations on access, specific prohibitions and conditions of access to advertising, as well as the prohibition on the supply of tobacco and alcoholic beverages or drugs, as well as on their advertising. In the case of timetables, we present an alternative text to point 2, in order to regulate the time extension authorisations, limiting them to certain dates. In the case of tickets, and in order to avoid excessive agglomerations of people for the acquisition of tickets in certain public shows or recreational activities, we set up a higher percentage of early sale, avoid the use of computer programs that allow for the resale of tickets and force organizers to communicate throughout their advertising which are the official points or channels for the sale of tickets, in order to avoid fraudulent sales. In the case of the rights and obligations of artists, interpreters or executioners, in order to provide greater legal certainty to the parties, we propose that safety and hygiene measures should be accredited by certificate of a technician or technique competent in the matter. In the case of rights and obligations of the holders and organizers, we propose several changes in which the obligations of the holders of the obligations of the organizers are delineated, as well as the signing of a contract between the parties in which the nature, scope and conditions are established, distinguishing between the obligations and duties of one party and another. We propose the development of a new catalogue of public shows and recreational activities adapted to the current reality, which is, in addition to, within a maximum of one year, and we propose the development of a consolidated text that collects all the autonomous regulations on public shows and recreational activities that develop into public-open establishments or spaces and which are now very dispersed in certain legal norms. This is the content of our amendments. And for now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. On the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña Bóveda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. In this Bill of Shows and Recreational Activities of Galicia, the En Marea Group began making a whole amendment, not in a free and arbitrary way, but this amendment was to consider that this project contains, and continues to contain, manifest defects difficult to remedy. And I suppose, after this mini-debate process, we're even more committed to the initial idea. I'm going to divide into three parts my exposure. The first one, to do more fine-tuned or to clarify a little better why it was this opposition. And there are compelling reasons, some of them already referred to by the other groups and others that, since the zero minute, we've been albiscating and analyzing as very negative. The second part is because, nevertheless, In Marea decided to present 61 partial amendments for considering that we could — yet, and yet, with partial amendments, with little hope but with a great deal of willingness — improve this bill. And we also consider that the law is going to be time for it to be implemented, after two decades. It seems that everything leads to that as in the sea — this usual example — the big fish eats the little one, here it seems that they've got a rocket and that the fastest they're going to eat the slowest. I don't know who the slowest is here, because the slowest is the Welsh Administration, the last; or, if it isn't the last, of the last of the state to implement a Show Law, which, if they do the comparison, will see that they are very diverse, very varied; some give a lot of light and help to see what we may not see only in our reality, but our reality is the one that has to mark the guidelines. Therefore, we believe that a law, to be a truly valuable law, an effective law, must be transparent, participatory, realistic, developed, with the protagonists and participation of the citizen and the absence of bureaucracy, as the European Economic Community tells us, with a clear compass of northern, southern, or eastern patterns — because we have a very particular reality and map in our community — with balanced sanctions, with good guidelines. None of these assumptions are met. And we can say little participation, and even when there was no participation, they didn't listen well to the collectives who were questioned, so we know and so we see how this law ends. And they haven't heard people claiming that these regulations are adapted to the basic criteria of trade regulations, in this case the Code of Commerce, to define what is a public establishment. Skills are not achieved; it is very important that the powers of the autonomous administration are completed, as are those of the municipal administrations; or will each council choose what seems right to it? There would be a need for regulation defining concepts. We, of the 61 amendments, have already started by amending Title I, definitions, with all consistency, because if we don't define correctly what activities are, if we don't define correctly what spaces are, we can hardly develop the law; then, there's already a plan error at startup. We can define it as we want, as dangerous activities, live, complete outings, certain environments, dance clues... but we can organize it for places and establishments, which would be very good for people who organize events, who are not all the same: public shows, entertainment and fun. It's not the same as a café-show that cultural and artistic spaces, auditoriums, cinemas, squares and various venues, congress halls, concert halls, conferences, exhibitions, multi-purpose, permanent theaters, possibly... but also defining sports spaces. I don't enumerate them because we can have eighteen different spaces, but we define them. And open spaces and public roads. It's very different to think of security in a closed space than in an open space. And here, we know, when we go to the verbenas -- in the years that I have memories of verbenas -- few serious and terrible incidents we have fortunately had. But security is necessary. That's why we defend the development of the law, so we provide ideas. It is different recreational activities of dance and sports-creative, recreational and chance, that exist, and non-profit leisure culturals, which is an important and legitimate part, but which cannot be at the same level and at the same level as a great show. I'll stop at the verbenas, because our country is a pioneer in verbenas. There are over 300 orchestras, 4,000 workers, and there's a lot of money going on — over 29 million euros — and there's a singularity that's not even contemplated, even though there's been a conversation with some of these sectors. There are also bars that organize and produce concerts, which have to have another kind of consideration; hosts and hosts also have a lot to say. So, in summary, if you heard, another law would have been on this table and this Parliament. A much better law is possible. Therefore, the definition of legal security, that of not taking into account, does not listen to the associations of creators/creators, nor the Best Platform without Touradas, the Franz Weber Foundation, and many others that deepen on the need to regulate accurately and control; they are not firing. And, for example, the use of cattle in Tauromachic events — which we also consider cruel and wild — calls for a regulation that has not been considered. Following the development of the law, which we say is poorly developed, it's not a receipt that they say: there's a commission. Okay, there's a commission, but we don't know who's going to regulate it, who's going to conform it, who's going to be representative, what their roles will be... A commission that we understand that, as it covers so many sectors at the level of administration, it should be represented by people with competence in industry, in education, in sport, in culture, in health and in the environment, all these areas involved. In this law which covers so many sectors, which move and condition so much, it would, of course, be fundamental to the justification that municipalities choose. They would be perfectly qualified to decide who they would have to be represented for. But we also believe that representative organisations, of course consumers and users, should be represented with neighboring associations. Or what's going to happen? That our popular parties are going to be cut because people with so much bureaucracy won't want to meet all the requirements that they're going to sue? Also at the level of insurance, there is duality, there is duality of insurance. Of course, an orchestra or a professional company has their insurance and the room they program has their insurance. No one's going to risk dropping a firefight and killing three people, there's got to be civil liability insurance. Even though we've been in a legal vacuum for so many years, people have insurance. What there can't be is duality. So we're also talking about security. Take a look. There's a need for security experts, of course. But for private security, there is a lack of legislation. And who are they going to work on access? Who will bear this responsibility? The Public Road School, which enables people to have a degree—because security cannot be left to anyone—at most it's going to take out seventy students a year. In Compostela alone, there would be a need for 500 people — if, as the law is designed — to guarantee access. So security experts have to form them, and they have to be formed in a structured and legal way. And let's say, okay. Despite all these inconveniences, I miss something very important, which we believe is very dangerous, which is the loss of citizenship's role and the danger of the disappearance of socio-Community groups. So we think this can't happen. It is shocking that these types of activities are included in the category of public shows. Exceptions are also poorly structured. So, of the 61 amendments that we tabled, you accepted 7; well, you accepted -- let's say -- an amendment that we consider to be silent; the others are very small amendments, which seems to us like a coat of hair, because, okay, the amendments can change a sentence, okay. And let's add that there's no xenophobia, all right, all right! Thank you very much! This is an example; sample, a button. And above all -- as Mr Bará has said, of the Nationalist Block -- they have -- I don't know, I suppose when he insults it is because there are no arguments -- the use of insult, the insult of being irrational in the Commission. So, irrationality to yours, that they come out of a hasty, incongruent, inconsistencies law. And it's explained, because the adjectives are not said random or anxious to insult, but really with magnifying the law that this country deserves. This country does not deserve, after waiting twenty-one years, this kind of hasty and undeveloped law. So, if he had been involved, of course, concise and concrete, equanimously, he would have drawn up all this regulation, because we would be happy. So we also feel that we have to favour volunteering with a catalogue and necessary functions. It is necessary to push and defend all sectors, and this government should be an up-to-date and relevant driving agent for all, large and small, discriminating very well and with equanimity. We feel that it doesn't regulate, we feel the loss of citizenship's protagonist, and we look at it with concern. We feel that the sanctioning regime is so disproportionate, possibly the grossest sanctioning regime of all laws throughout the territory of the Spanish State. I'd like to have a little time and have done it — I didn't have time — but, if not, I'd say, 300,000 euros by sanctioning it?; it's a breakthrough. We feel that licenses can even go to the detriment of the hostel, we feel that they don't calibrate, that it's different from a summer time, that a winter time, that a weekend schedule, that an open place, that a closed place. We feel like they haven't developed who's going to control access. We are grateful that, fortunately, if we have accepted an important amendment, which refers to the balance between freedom, security and coexistence. For us, it is a very important point, because citizenship — I said here and I collect this document and we hope it will be fulfilled — "is free to choose the form of leisure and entertainment, and the promoters of shows, to offer a wide and diverse list of events without limit than with respect to legal obligations arising from general interest due to security, coexistence and human rights." We feel like we can't get rid of the evasives. We believe that it is impossible to restructure a text that will be subject to significant technical and legal deficiencies. Strengthening coexistence implies, it should involve all sectors and be a priority objective, involve all administrations and all sectors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u60	As I no longer have time, nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr Pazos Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Let me begin by greeting the representatives of the Galaga Verbena Entrepreneurs Association and the Galaga Orchestras Association, to whom I would like to thank for their presence in this debate. And especially, I would like to thank you for your collaboration during the drafting and processing of the law that you are currently in charge of, and that you have, by the way, done in the drafting of a text that regulates this activity and that has now just denied the opposition to its existence. You have the assurance that your contributions are collected by law. I believe that, in view of this, we should take a brief look at what the text we are bringing to this Parliament in Galicia has been going on. The preliminary draft that was introduced to this House stems from the need to regulate an agent and a very different variety of events that take place throughout the year in our community for which the different agents who participate in them in one way or another claim a regulation that clearly demarcated what were the rights and obligations that corresponded to each other. If in any territory the normative development of this matter is complex, in the case of Galicia this difficulty is enhanced by the enormous cultural richness of our land and the special diversity of the acts in which it manifests itself. This wealth explains in a very special way how long it took to develop a regulation capable of collecting the multiple specificities of our land, while avoiding that regulation becoming a corset that drowns our traditions and our industries. That wealth also made dialogue with the various sectors affected, of course, with its main representatives and with all those who wanted to approach dialogue; sectors affected by legislation and those we gathered their feelings, their experience and the different demands that I must say have always been transferred constructively. The result of this open, fluid and sustained dialogue for a long time came a text which, as I have said on several occasions, certainly does not fully satisfy the aspirations of any sector affected by the norm, but is able to provide a framework of action in which all of them can develop their activity in a balanced, reasonably satisfactory manner and with accurate legal certainty. With these background, the preliminary draft was approved by the Council of the Union and moved to this House to announce its parliamentary periployment. And for this dialogue exercise I congratulated the Vice-President on the whole debate and congratulate him again today. In the debate of the whole of the then draft law of spectacles this Member clearly set out what were the premises we faced with the parliamentary procedure. We would try to improve the text as much as possible, enriching it with the contributions of all the groups represented here, that is, with the premise that the changes made during this procedure should not break the social consensus with which the text reached the House. The fact is that, as I have already pointed out during the debate which led to the adoption of the report by the European Parliament, we are reasonably satisfied with the outcome of the dialogue held during the work of the Presidency, which was first pleased with the two amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, both of which referred to the last provision. The first of these concerns the drafting of Article 40 of the Law on Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness of Galicia, significantly simplifying the regulation of activities subject to responsible declaration, among them verbenas; the second of the amendments submitted by the People's Group deletes paragraph 3, as Mr Bará, of the same last provision, in which it was established which were the exempt activities of responsible declaration, municipal licence or autonomous authorization in regard to various circumstances related to its scarce entity or incidence. With this abolition we grant the municipalities of greater autonomy to regulate these exemptions through their respective municipal ordinances, in accordance with Article 41a(2) of the Entrepreneurship Act. We believe that in this way we can better regulate the particular circumstances of each of these municipalities and deepen at the beginning of local autonomy, which in no case, Mr Bará, should be confused with the possibility of arbitrary action by the local administration, as I think you have pointed out, in my understanding of a wrong and disrespectful interpretation of the Greek municipalism. With regard to the contributions made by the other groups in the House, I must also express our satisfaction, because I think they have served to show that the coincidence in the basic ideas of this law is much greater than the speech that today appears maintained by the various members of the Phoenician Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, of the 42 articles and 12 provisions that make up this Bill 23 they have not received a single amendment from the members of the Phoenician Parliament. The opposition's proposal has been modified by another 14. Consequently, 70% of the articulate of this future Act of Shows and Recreational Activities of Galicia has the support of the opposition. The text that we are discussing today incorporates, through the proper transaction, a good deal of 35% of the amendments tabled by the PSdEG, 26% of the amendments tabled by the BNG — amendments of little importance, because they are those presented by the BNG, Mr Bará — and 8% of the amendments tabled by En Marea — which, in fact, seem to me to be very much in the light of their attitude during the debate. I know that the opposition does not like this numerical analysis of the results of the presentation and that it prefers to highlight those issues in which we disagree, but I think that the figures can be useful to us as a base element to analyze the degree of consensus that this legislative project really counts with. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I have the absolute conviction that this consensus is much greater than your lords intend to appear, and that is so. As important are the coincidences that have materialized in modifications to the text that has reached Parliament, they do not exhaust the points of coincidence that exist between the group that supports the Government and the opposition groups, because, in addition to the above mentioned, there are numerous contributions made by their lordships that are fully assumed by the People's Group. So much so that many of them are already collected in different laws previously adopted in this Parliament and, consequently, they are already spreading their practical effects at present, and simply have not been incorporated into the dictates of a matter of correct legislative technique, thus avoiding unnecessary duplication. But there is still a third group of matching approaches that have not been incorporated into the text because they are of a marked regulatory nature, for example the composition of the committee. And so those coincidences will end up as part of the legal body once this necessary regulatory development of the Act of Shows has taken place. Nevertheless, his honourable Members insist on highlighting the inevitable differences that must occur in any parliamentary debate, some of them related to content and others based on issues of procedure. As far as the background issues are concerned, there are some I'd like to stop for a moment. First of all, by reassuring Mrs. Cuña about her concern, the lack of staff to address the security issues or security demands that are due to this law; calm: the Road School has been training staff for more than eight years and there are already over 2,000 pupils who have received the right training in Galicia for that kind of function. He also insisted on the existence of risks that motivated the only amendment in full that he received the text, pointing out a supposed restrictive concern in issues related to the protagonistism of citizenship, creative freedom or the reconciliation of the principles of security and coexistence. And I must say, after several weeks of debate, exchange of views, we still don't know where those risks are. Where do they appear? What are the articles that sustain? What are the amendments that conjure those dangers? Because, as a single explanation, you have to point out a supposed disproportion of the sanctioning regime, which they propose, in addition, two different ways: the first, with the exception of compliance with the law, any event that is carried out without a lucrative character, which implies genuine insensatism, lordship, because it assumed the effective deprotection of the attendees to such acts; the second proposal is to lower by 50% the maximum counts of the penalties provided for in the whole of the offenders, whether they are of a lucrative nature or not. Your Honor, you want to reduce from 600,000 to 300,000 euros the maximum penalty for the most serious infringements as it may be — read — "to exceed the maximum capacity when it poses a serious risk to the safety of persons or property, not to allow access to open establishment to the public to officials of the authority, to hold public shows expressly prohibited in this law or by violating the resolutions by which it is prohibited to be held, to violate the obligation to have signed the insurance contract in force." Your Honor, we understand that sanctions must be taken into account in the circumstances of each case, but do you really believe that someone who intends to profit, disregarding the safety of persons, pursuing prohibited activities or violating insurance obligations does not deserve an anti-economic punishment? We think that yes, we think that whoever despises the safety of people in this way by putting their lives at grave risk deserves an exemplary sanction. PSOE also told us about the need to sign agreements with all the municipalities. I've already explained it to Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. We enable the possibility that agreements will be signed, but of course we cannot urge them to join each and every one of Galician municipalities; it will be according to their needs and analyzing the type of events that take place in each of them. They also insisted on the need to tighten the regime of celebration in the existence of the tourtas, omitting an argument which they have already made on repeated occasions: the regulation of the tourtas is not the object of this law. And as far as young people's access to these events is concerned, we are limited to collecting the agreement reached unanimously in the Galician Parliament on the prohibition of access to children under 12 years of age, Mr Bará. We do not regulate the tourdas, Mr Bará, as we do not regulate or prohibit or prevent the celebration of the Allariz ox or any kind of spectacle in which animals are involved, like you or not. So where you see restrictions on freedom, there are only security guarantees; where an abusive sanctioning regime, there are only dissuasive sanctions for alleged non-fulfillers; and where you refer to the alleged defense of Taurine shows, there is only about individual freedom and unanimous parliamentary agreements. As far as procedural matters are concerned, they alluded to one: the lack of dialogue, an argument that has repeated to satiety; see if, on the basis of repetition, we make it a reality. It's not like that, ladies. This law has been widely consensual, dialogued and negotiated during its management and has also been the subject of wide-ranging dialogue in parliamentary headquarters. We're not in a hurry, Mr Bará, but one thing is the rush and another thing is the diligence, and, as I've already told you, there are sectors here, for example, represented that should not be found in the high season, that half of their season is done with legislation and half of the season has to change its course by legislative change; therefore, the diligence, which does not rush. Because, as a wise man wrote, a good dialogue is the one that exhausts the subject without exhausting the interlocutors, and the truth is, ladies, is that you intended to convert the dialogue, a valuable tool, into a useless tool, proposing more than twenty appearances to listen to different associations once it was already due to be able to amend the text and, therefore, to be able to incorporate any suggestion. By the way, they put that list on the first day of the P.O. and presented it on the last day. That's called political filibusterism, Mr Bará. If you considered them so important, why didn't you meet them? We've been announcing this law for more than three years. You really didn't find a little bit of time to get together with those associations? You have even come to charge us today with the low citizen participation in Lexisla with us, a free and open tool in which citizens decide to participate. By the way, in addition to recommending reading, I would ask you to read what is presented. If I had, for example, read that letter submitted by the Galician Technical Producers Association, I would know what the reason is for the choice of the responsible declaration on prior communication, due to the ephemeral nature of these activities. But besides, besides using it as a daring weapon, you must read it, Mr. Bará. By the way, in addition to the meetings we had, we offered them and made them available for a full day here in Parliament to receive them, to you or any of you, out of the presentation, to talk to you, to receive your suggestions, to negotiate them and to hold your hand. I've been in Parliament for a full day, and no one came in contact with me, no one called me, no one asked for an appointment, no one offered any dialogue, but that's yes, anything serves to set a disagreement, use it as a daring weapon, and so justify the unjustifiable. In spite of this, we continue to bet on dialogue, on useful dialogue. Two concrete examples, for what I call attention especially to En Marea. See, they tabled an amendment to Article 16 regulating the protection of minors by requiring compliance with the legislation on alcohol consumption, requesting that tobacco and other illegal substances also be referred to. We offer you a transaction to comply with this legislation on the prevention of the consumption of alcoholic beverages, tobacco and illegal substances. We've eliminated "others" because tobacco and alcohol are not illegal. You refused to talk. Second example, Mrs. Cuña. During the debate, I will reiterate our offer of a transaction to modify Article 13 in relation to the possibility that people with intolerances or food allergies have guaranteed access to specific food, either through the supply of these foods inside the enclosures, or by establishing the impossibility of preventing them from accessing those enclosures with those foods adapted to their needs if there is no supply inside. A very interesting change for all people who suffer from food intolerance, who necessarily need their acceptance to be incorporated. First of all, they refused to negotiate an agreement, but then you assured the commission that En Marea would not stay. But the reality is that we continue without incorporating this transaction. Well, here's the offer of useful dialogue, Your Honor. Do we still refuse to negotiate any transactions with the People's Group or can we reach agreements? Do you accept any of these transactions? Do you accept that you have compromised your support during the debate on the adoption of the report? I'm still holding my hand, Your Honor, but time is running out for us. Today we are accompanied by the four leaders. They were here, in Parliament, the four leaders of their formation. I believe that, if you meet for a moment, it might be possible to make this agreement without the need for us to inaugurate the Joint Group or any of you to be absent from this room during the vote. I think it's possible. I urge you to agree, ladies and gentlemen, even with the People's Party. They'll check that nothing happens and that it can even be beneficial for the whole of the Greeks. But, yes, come here to set up clashes that do not exist in a tone that does not exist... Mr Bará, the other day you were talking about cordiality at the meetings during the Phoenician debate. Today he came here to say little less that we took off his glove, that we refused to talk to you. It's absolutely false that I told you the first day...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u64	...that this was what we accepted and that there was nothing else to talk about. I told them we were going to invite them to transactions and invite them to present us with counter-transaction proposals. I didn't get anything, I'm still waiting, the hand is still held, the clock is still counting. Today they have a great opportunity to show the Greeks whether they really bet on dialogue or if this is just another one of the imposures that we are accustomed to opposition. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. We are now going to a round of parliamentary groups to define the amendments that have been maintained by others. Mr Bará Torres has the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u66	Mr Pajos told us here that the law has reached a high level of social consensus in this House. It must be the consensus of the apioneer that you passed to the Fegamp, the Galaga Association of Musical Companies or the Federation of Festival Businesses or all the groups that have submitted allegations and those you have passed over because they accepted 4 of 69. If that's a social consensus, I don't know what you call it. He doesn't say much about you. But in addition, as we have told you here, you have examined the procedure of the hearing in Parliament, which is a figure referred to in the Parliament's Rules of Procedure in Rule 115.3 which you have curiously never applied. You have shut the doors of Parliament. And don't come here saying it was the last day of the Phoenician Congress because the Phoenician Assembly is meeting as often as it needs if there's a will to reach agreements, there's no need to close it. You closed it because you didn't want to listen to the collectives, you didn't want to listen to Fegamp. We proposed that they come to Parliament and did not want to listen to the Galaga Association of Musical Companies, the Galaga Association of Orchestras, the Association of Businesses of Verbena Galicia, the Federation of Provincial Associations of Businesses of Partyrooms, the Franz Weber Foundation, the Association of Technical Producers, the Confederation of Anpa Galagas, the Confederation of Public Centres, the Galician Confederation of Neighborhood Associations, the Association of Consumers, the Federation of Cinemaclubs, the Galician Scene, the Galician Federation, the Galician Culture Federation, the Association of Live Musicians, the Galegos Gaiteiros, the Festival of Performing Arts, the Circus of Galician Professionals, the Galega Federation of Amateur Theatre, the Union of Galician puppets, the Galician Academy of Audiovisual, the Classical Music Association of Galician Galician. We have asked all these groups to come to Parliament to give their opinion on the law and you have closed the doors of Parliament. This is the will of consensus, of dialogue and of participation that you have, sky!, this patatore!, that's reality. And of course, you don't regulate the tours in this law. It's true, they don't regulate the tourdas. Touradas regulate with a state law that prevents other communities and other administrations from prohibiting them because they consider them to be untouchable patriotic heritage in Spain. That's what you do with the tourdas; a cruel, bloody spectacle like the tourdas. And you authorize the tourdas with this law from the Unity of Galicia to prevent, precisely, that since the Town Councils you can put a stop to this cruel and bloody spectacle. And as for the rushes, we've already told you that it was a month that would take this process of hearing, consultation and debate that would enrich and improve the law, and you are responsible, Mr. Rueda, that this procedure had not been done. So what we have to say in conclusion is that we are going to support, of course, the amendments tabled by the other groups because they seem to us to be positive, and we regret this attitude of the People's Party, because, as much as I say here that I was at our disposal, the reality is that I imposed a deadline, and in that time they did not move, and there was no real debate in Parliament about the whole text of the law. So we are not going to support this project, first of all, by the lack of participation and dialogue. It started with the veto of the report itself — as I said — of the Economic and Social Council, with nothing more and nothing less than that regulated matters are not directly linked to Galicia's economic and social development. How can you say this?, that verbenas, musical shows, concerts, cafe activities, are not directly linked to Galicia's economic and social activity, to Galicia's economic and social development, if they have a very big impact on GDP and are activities that move a lot of money? How can they really say this? They have absolutely no credibility. And we're not going to support it because you put cancels, with the process of this project, into participatory democracy. They close the doors of Parliament to society, and if not, we will see in the debate on the next matter the treatment that you give to legislative initiatives of popular initiative. The BNG wants an open Parliament, we want an open Parliament. We are, in fact, organizing activities that are called precisely this way, open Parliament, bringing to Parliament groups to discuss, to debate, to deal with matters that are of paramount importance to this country, and I am grateful to them! You, on the other hand, want a closed Parliament, an opaque Parliament, an ensimilar, autonomous and soulless Parliament, which is what the People's Party defends. And they put in the same bag -- as we told them -- realities that have nothing to do with it. They increase municipal powers without funding to carry them out. And also, as we have already told you, there are obvious contradictions in the legal regime for processing authorizations. So for all these reasons, we are not going to support this law and we are going to support the amendments tabled by the opposition groups. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, the truth is that we believe that a better law could have been gained, especially more consensual, more participatory, with greater transparency and that it had recompiled the dispersed regulation which — as you well know — is at least contained in nine standards. You know perfectly well that this document has been sent to 9 representative organizations of the sector, of which they have answered 3; and in the public exhibition process through the web, 3 other entities have claimed. The total number of allegations made by these two routes was 53, and of these 53 accepted a partial one. Fegamp submitted 13 claims and accepted 4. Therefore, consensus, consensus, does not seem to exist unless such allegations or amendments are missing in the documentation sent to political groups. So we believe that, by dilating a little more, simply, a better law could have been made. We also do not understand from the Socialist Parliamentary Group why the preceptive reports of the autonomous administration were not included, and also the General Legal Counsel itself expresses itself in the documentation which is needed or which should have them. Why is it not included in the report of the Galician Local Cooperation Commission, which, among other functions, has to report on draft laws that meet the local regime? It doesn't seem very logical. The General Legal Counsel itself states that the bill contains a direct attribution of competences by sectoral law to the councils, and that it constitutes a competence of the councils in the authorisation and extension of schedules; authorization of an extraordinary nature; functions of inspection and control; instigating, instructing and resolving the sanctioning files; actions necessary for the proper development of the competences... therefore, we do not understand very well why these reports are omitted. The Juridical Counsel itself refers to Law 5/2014, on the rationalization and sustainability of the local administration, where Article 1(3) sets out that for these purposes, the preliminary drafts of the laws referred to in the previous line should be accompanied by an economic memory prepared by the competent council on the basis of matter, in which the impact of the new allocation of competences on the financial resources of the public administrations concerned and the fulfilment of the principles of stability, financial sustainability and efficiency of the service or activity is reflected. The law must provide for the necessary resources to ensure the financial adequacy of local authorities, without which it can in any case lead to greater expenditure on public administrations. Once again, the board invites and the municipalities pay again. It is true that we will abstain from the adoption of this law because we understand that it is necessary, and we will vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the other political groups. But we would like it to be a more consensual law, that it would dilate its procedure just a little more time to consult again, just as BNG has exposed itself to all sectors affected by this law, that if it would grant the municipalities a new consultation, and therefore it could leave this House, I think it would be in a position to leave this House, a law passed by all political groups. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u70	We've all known for many years what the communication scheme is. For communication to exist there must be a receiver or a receiver, an issuer or a station, a code, a channel. I think there's a lot of interference in the channel. I don't think we speak or have the same code and we have to make an effort to listen. You were talking about clocks. I'll try to be very clear, even if I use the metaphor. I believe that those who confuse the clock with time, the growth with development, the great with greatness, also confuse nature with landscape. What do you mean? I mean, here we're talking about a lot of subjects and we're arguing that it's consistent. That you say, En Marea, that we approved 8% of your amendments is already a lot, with the attitude they've had. You treat yourself by talking about attitudes. What is that receptive attitude? What is that open-hand attitude, communicative? It's amazing. I can't say that I have my hand open and give a hoax, because it's not credible, directly. We're talking about a lot of people who are affected, we're talking about a lot of people who are affected, we're talking about a lot of people who are benefited. We are talking about the fact that the European Economic Community recommends minimal intervention and administrative simplification. This isn't happening. There's no simplification, there's bureaucratization, and I think there's overshadowed interests. As I'm not sure, just the outline as an intuition. I think when you talk about issues like they've heard a lot, it doesn't correspond to reality. When it comes to producers, for example, we meet with more than 20 people and groups. We really had the perception and necessity that the law had weight, that the law was useful, that the law was favorable to our society as it deserves, and for nothing! You say, yes, yes, open hand. I'm so glad we're all in agreement. Don't be mistaken, Mr. Alberto, because he's emptying out many of the statements he makes and is creating a false vision. Let's assume that in the later legislative development it's going to overlap, whether it's going to collect or correct all this amount of poorly formulated and sketched things; a very unbalanced law. On the one hand, very developed the whole sanctioning part; nothing, nothing, absolutely nothing defined; and then, questions of legislative problems that you will say how you will solve. It's not less the subject of the sheepfold, who's going to control access; it's not less. Not even who's going to train these people and what's going to be the competition. If we don't have private security law in this country, do you intend to privatize? I don't know. It's intuition. I'm still on the subject of intuition. What's wrong? He says 3,000 students went out. Yes, but the demand throughout Galicia is enormous. Come out 70, ask at school. And with regard to the School of Technical Producers and Shows of Galicia, they make absolutely legitimate demands and talk about if the technical project has to be signed by someone, it has to be by a competent technician. And they give data from the article to which reference is made and from the doctrine of the Supreme Court. They didn't pick up these suggestions at all. Look, you told us one day that we were friends of Groucho, of Groucho Marx, and I say, well, yes, but maybe you're more friend, that politics is the art of looking for problems, finding them, making a false diagnosis and then applying wrong remedies, which is how we feel about this law. Still, we're going to abstain because we consider it necessary, and we hope that with successive decrees at least if it gets a little better and it doesn't make it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, nothing, an awful law that seems to be going through without votes against. It is certainly a curious little thing in this Parliament, but one learns every day. I understand, Mr Bará, that today, after what happened in the previous debate, you have to set a certain anger. Why, of course, if you are able to deny that we agree on agreements, when you were able to shoot completely the amendments that the People's Group presented to a law, which shot them and copied them one by one, and yet deny the coincidence, what could I expect, after a much less intense debate than that, in which we practically coincided with 100 percent? But, you see, there's no interest in these things. A couple of questions he said. The tourdas is a debate that bores a bit, I tell you the truth. If they really want to fight the towers, do it. It's true, I go once a year. I usually go there because I'm invited by some friends, so it's true. By the way, right there, behind me, there's a stage that's from the deputation... yes, yes, yes, yes, it is, and it's, and it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's a really big poster, it's, it's, uh, it's, it's, uh, it's, it's, like, uh, it's, it's, like, uh, it's like, uh, it's like, uh, it's like, uh, it's like, it's like, uh, it's like, uh... it's like, it's like, uh, uh... it's like, it's like, uh, it's like, [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You think they're in charge of Pontevedra, don't you? And I'm going to tell you something else that might surprise you: there are people watching the tournaments on the stage of the deputation where you rule with the PSOE. Oh, well, I don't know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As far as I know, in public shows, including the tours, there's no demand for political meats. As long as I don't rule the BNG, at least not. Let's see if we can do this. [[Applause]] You criticize that the deadline was too short. I'm going to ask you another question that seems quite reasonable to me, what did you do during that period? I arrived on the first day in P.O. and I said, "We accept all this. I'm going to transfer to them, in addition, all the transaction proposals we offer you. We'd like to receive counter-proposals for transaction. Do you know how many I've received? Zero, Mr. Bará! In fact, total darkness in your transactions. Total darkness: Mordor. [[Murmurs.]] That's the reality. And now he says, they had to give us more time to meet with more people and more. The question I ask myself is who did you meet with? The representative of En Marea says: we meet with more than twenty collectives. Hey! And when they met, they didn't transfer any complaints? And you didn't materialize those complaints in your amendment proposals? And were those amendments not discussed? Because I don't understand anything, really! Anyway, something certainly surprising. Mrs. Rumbo asks us to do... Mr. President, between darkness and noise is a little complex, not... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I didn't expect a proper lighting for the event, but I thank you very much, Mr Bará. I, in any case, come here to pass a law of shows, or to try, not to give the show. I'll leave it on the left side. It's none of my business. What I'm trying to tell you is that dialogue isn't to accept everything you say. Some things are accepted, others are dealt with, and in which they don't — which is what we did — they were given legal reasons. I've already told you before that many of the issues that you pose are we agreeing with them, but they are either already collected in another legislation, or they are matters of a regulatory nature that must be developed later. Look, Mrs. Cuña, I have to tell you something. You talked here about dialogue, about interlocutors, and I have to tell you something. I'm going to translate exactly the only sentence that I received from In Marea during this dialogue, and it was -- it's true that you weren't there that day -- "We're not going to negotiate any transactions with PP." End of date. Do you think that's the way you can negotiate something? Do you think you can wake up? I proposed two transactions to you today. In one, instead of saying, "alcoholic drinks, tobacco and other illegal substances," we propose: "alcoholic drinks, tobacco and illegal substances." The difference is very substantial! You don't accept me, Your Honor! Yes, he did tell me not on three occasions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's see if today says yes. The other is to allow celiacs, people who suffer from lactose intolerance and other kinds of things, to be assured that when you go to an event, or offer those products that meet their needs, or you can introduce them. He told me he was going to accept it, but we're in the final debate of the bill's approval and he hasn't yet told me whether or not to accept it. Man, thank you! Look at you, we just solved two transactions in thirty seconds that you weren't able to tell me anything that you did in three weeks. And those who had difficulties for dialogue are we? Man, let's be a little serious! What I'm so sorry about is that I didn't reproduce all the transactions I moved them, because now it turns out that when the debate is public...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u73	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u74	...you go ahead and accept them. For three weeks they said not to all of them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u75	Quiet, quiet. Mrs. Santos, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u76	And as for security personnel, I have to say, really, to worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u78	Yeah, I'm trying. What is unreasonable is that you tell us that the need for that personal is 500 people for all of Galicia, and when I tell you that more than two thousand are already formed, you keep telling me that the needs are ingenious and cannot be covered. Man, it looks like a numerical incongruence! I, at last, repeat again that to dialogue you must want to dialogue, and to wake up you must want to wake up. And I think there's been a lack of generosity in some groups. In any case, allow me to say that, since you answered me with an appointment from Groucho, I answer with the one that also says: there are politicians who are looking for a solution to each problem, and there are others who are struggling to find a problem with each solution. To display a button.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u79	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Forgive this from the light, you're looking. Today Parliament is 36 years old, and the years are also being noticed. That's right, that's right. [[Applause]] Parliament is 36 years old today, December 19, 1981. Debate on the proposal for a law, on a popular initiative, on measures to guarantee linguistic rights in the socio-economic field
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u80	For the presentation of the bill, you have the word Mr. Marcos Maceira, whom I ask you to approach the rostrum of speakers, for a time of fifteen minutes. You will be accompanied by the first Vice-President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u81	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the ILP of measures to guarantee linguistic rights in the socio-economic field comes to Parliament for its consideration after a long campaign of dissemination and far surpassed the minimum required. The goal is to turn into a law that begins to guarantee in economic relations the right to use the Greek language normally, always and everywhere. We present it to the Galician Council of Culture, the General Secretariat of Linguistic Policy, the General Directorate for Consumer and Trade, the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, the Galician Institute of Consumption, the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs, the works councils, trade unions and consumers' organisations, and also to parliamentary groups, always in the spirit that, if taken into account, it has all possible political and social support. This ILP started from a commission that promotes the Bureau's initiative for linguistic normalization, an entity with thirty-one years' track record in defending our language. It also began with the support of one hundred and twenty-five people representing different areas: academics, culture, justice, health, telecare workers, entrepreneurs. He continued to receive support from people of different ages, ideologies, social conditions, citizens and citizens who want situations in which you can always see, hear, use and receive attention and documentation in English, 28,000 people who have found with his signature the broad will of terms as Greeks and Greeks the same rights as users of any other official language in his territory, as is the case with French in Paris, German in Berlin, Finnish in Helsinki or Spanish in Madrid. Normalize is to act to restore normal language usage. Greek society normalizes Greek every day through cultural associations, neighbors, families, trade union organizations, consumers, businessmen... who use it in their daily activity and recover spaces of use and presence, the same society that participates in dozens of demonstrations — many of them the most numerous in Europe — in favor of their own language. Any normalization process that would like to be real needs of the social impulse, as is the case with this bill, but also of the political impulse to develop the changes needed to return their natural status to the language, to begin by guaranteeing the right to full and unlimited use. The political impulse also needs the institutions responsible, with the Government in mind, to commit themselves to their own legislation and to the agreements of those who participated, as well as to accompany legitimate claims of impulse and promotion of the language, which are, in addition, an obligation established by the Statute of Self-Government itself. This should be the foundation on which to establish the minimum principles of Greek politics, because the normality of the Greek language must be the demonstration of social cohesion and unity of the Greek people. It is with that guidance that we will take a firm and unanimous step towards our language, with which we bring this ILP into the socio-economic sphere and, above all, that the Greek ceases to be excluded by default. In the socio-economic field, we have developed our consumer relationships and all the activities we need to live and satisfy much of our needs; activities, like almost all, that need the language to inform us, to solve doubts, to claim our rights as consumers or to give notice in case of emergency, situations in which in a fluent manner our language is excluded, vetoed, where normal is that it is not, where we have no freedom to use it simply because we have no choice in English in attention, documentation or information. Freedom in the use of Greek is, at best, conditional and limited, although formally Greek is the language itself and co-official in Galicia and public authorities have the obligation to promote it. This aspiration of normality is in the Language Standardization Act of 1983, whose deficiencies in application and development at all levels are evident, even in aspects that were, at least in appearance, absolutely clear thirty-four years ago. Parliament approved the Law on Linguistic Standardization, the Law on the Official Language of the Local Administration or the General Plan on the Standardization of the Greek Language in 2004, a general plan drawn up with the participation of nearly a thousand people representing different sectors and approved unanimously by Parliament, which took place in 440 actions, with an intention of effectiveness, to be promoted by the Union. Thirteen years later, he's still inactive. The Greek Parliament and the Galician Union committed themselves to the 1996 Universal Declaration of Linguistic Rights and the European Charter of Languages, ratified by the Spanish State in 2001. Both international documents lay down clear obligations, ranging from the education system in the minority language to justice, through the economic sphere, to which we refer today. In 2015, all the Welsh political forces signed the Declaration of Unity for the normalization of the Greek language, promoted by the Bureau by the Linguistic Normalization, in which it was stated that a new stage of normality for the Greek language was needed. In this statement, all political forces demonstrated their commitment to promoting all measures and actions that were necessary for their restoration, rehabilitation and full normality. Furthermore, in December 2016, on the occasion of European Cultural Capital in Donostia, the Protocol for the Guarantee of Linguistic Rights was introduced, with the support of one hundred and fifty social entities throughout Europe and with the presence of such relevant organisations as UNESCO, OSCE, UNPO or ELEN. If this proposal was accepted and passed by the law, Galicia would take a firm step towards the fulfilment of this international protocol. It is not enough, of course, to approve laws, to sign national or international agreements or to proclaim our love of language. All of this is necessary, but useless, if there is no desire to exercise legislate, agreed or planned. What are they worth if they don't become effective and if they don't even evaluate their compliance? Does anyone imagine a country with its own official language where the economic activities that can be carried out in it are anecdotal? A country where in cases of claims, emergency warnings, doubts, all kinds of management, there is always a hidden clause introduced by daily practice, but with legal support, of not being able to pay attention in your language? Well, that country exists and it's Galicia. The reality is that in Galicia today it is virtually impossible to make an act as simple and customary as opening an account, signing contracts of different types or even mandatory procedures to public entities such as discharge or casualties in social security or certain management with the Tax Agency. To want to live in Greek normally makes us foreign to our homeland. Just last year 2016, the Galician Line Report, the language use-related complaints and congratulations offered by the Bureau for Language Standardization, collected 316 cases of violation of linguistic rights, which are only a small part of those often produced in Galicia. Probably many and many of you, like many other citizens, will have received answers of the kind of "or speak Spanish or not at all" or "if you continue speaking Welsh, I can't solve your problem," or situations where inside Galicia something is not guaranteed as elementary as we are understood in Greek, an unacceptable coercion to an act of necessity which shows the absence of normality of the Greek. We know hidden protocols, but thank you for your compliance, where workers are expressly forbidden to go to the clientele in English while the language is still used. Even the geolocation services despise the Welsh toponymity, the only legitimate, legal and official. As a result, it is difficult to receive mails because it happens that for the distributor company what does not exist are places with the official toponym. However, it is surprising that the continued download of use of the Greek is no more intense than it already is. Is it worth any campaign, public or social initiative to promote the use of language, to combat prejudice, to give the language all the value it has, if elementary practice is impossible? This situation does not correspond to a country that affirms in the Statute that its language is co-official. If so, shouldn't it be as official as the other language? Where is equality for Greek when in the language actions of telephone elocutions, technological products, commercial websites, information and signals of any product in our language excluded? What freedom do we have to use if there is simply no option? Even if we compared to other official languages of the state, why do we almost always have all the options but ours? Is there any reason for us to be in many services the only official-language citizens with no effective right to use it on an equal footing? What for other official languages in the state is unthinkable for Greek must also be. The Greek language loses speakers due to a secular process of subordination, exclusion, forced limitation, still acting, introduced in addition to collective mentality through coercion and effective prejudices, along with the disintegration of public authorities in relation to language. But it is a process that can be reversed if you have the will, conviction and action decided for the reinstatement, rehabilitation and recovery of the language. Language is a human necessity. To recognize the right to attention in any language except itself is a demonstration of contempt for the people who speak it, is to pretend to maintain by force and coercion a status of subordination that we can well call linguistic racism. The purpose of this bill is to put an end to these discriminatory situations. It is not enough to recognize the right of use if there is no real use in equality... indeed, it is not enough to recognize that right of use—sorry—. I mean, there's no real use in equality without return. [[Applause]] The German consumer protection law recognizes the right to oral and written use. What good is that right if it is not accompanied by the right to be heard, understood and heeded? On the contrary, more than five hundred legal provisions, 200 in the field of consumption, oblige or protect the use of Spanish. The consequences of the absence and development of the right to use Greek and linguistic availability are clear and visible. Here is a specific example denounced by the Bureau: February 2017, a client requests a service in English to a banking entity, this is the summary of the reply: "This entity relates to its clients always in compliance with the linguistic obligations set out in the current legislation, with no specific obligation for the entity on the use of the Galician language." Services, attention, and information are denied for use in Greek, while teleworkers come to the detriment of their jobs because the company considers the option unnecessary in our language. The language is unused and the job is located in Galicia. Fortunately, there are companies that bet on our language, keeping the option on an equal footing. They know that making the Greek visible shows their identification and commitment to the country and is another sign of quality. But they are faced with important obstacles to the possibility of having contracts, documents, instructions or labels in English, or even permits and licenses, because legality does not protect them. In public visibility, but also in internal management, the use of Welsh forces an over effort without recognition or any help to access billing, payroll or accounting programs, not to mention the problems already discussed with the General Administration of the State. In February 2015, the president of the Galician Union, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, announced the beginning of the development of the Plan for the dynamization of Greek in the economic fabric, a process in which the Bureau participated by presenting approaches that were already advancing the need to always guarantee the linguistic rights of the entrepreneurship and consumers and consumers. We believe that, if there was any will, the development of this plan, together with the necessary assistance to finance costs, can be the complement to this bill, which recognizes and extends rights, broadens the responsibility of the public administration and promotes the evaluation and recruitment of good language, equality and language practices. All the advances to the Welsh language have emerged from the mobilization of society, also in this field. We have recent cases, such as Ferroatlantics, where workers and workers have managed to lift the veto on the use of Greek in their relations with the company; the pressure to get attention in Greek as a guarantee of the right to work in the country of the workers of Extend, in the Coruña; that of companies that have won the label in Greek with perseverance; or that of thousands of people who these days are asking Ikea to also want Greek, as they have done days ago with the insurer Genesis. But that society is very limited without the protection of the law. We need the English language to be present in everything and for everything so that we can live in it. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is simple, it is common sense, that the Greek people are just like anyone else, also in the right to use their language. Because it is in common sense that the people we want to have equal rights, it is in common sense that in Galicia anyone can be cared for and understood in Greek, it is in common sense that for this there is information and documentation in Greek, it is in common sense that if you respect the Greek toponymity, and only if you guarantee that common sense can we be free to express ourselves in our language. We do not propose anything that is not in force and is fully enforceable for Spanish. We don't even propose anything that is no longer in force for other languages in the state. In 2018, in order to exist and develop, it has to be no more than any language, but it is a duty of this Parliament and of the Greek Government that is no less. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore ask you to take this bill into consideration, which is intended to guarantee linguistic rights in the socio-economic field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u82	Thank you, Mr. Maceira. You can stay on the bench, you're already told where your seat is. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u83	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. First of all, I'd like to welcome the president of the Bureau to linguistic normalization, Marcos Maceira, and the people who accompany us on the guest board. On behalf of the Galego Nationalist Block and the parliamentary group, I would like to convey to you my sincere thanks for your work, not only in the collection of signatures — more than 28,000 — to present the legislative initiative in this House, but also for giving such a necessary debate, not only in political terms, not only in parliamentary terms, but also in social terms, about the linguistic rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] In the short film "Common feeling", with which the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization promoted the campaign to collect signatures from this ILP, there was a life in English, a life full of Greek, as an experience, as a challenge; situations, absolutely different contexts and at the same time absolutely everyday, such as contacting the telephone company, presenting itself to a job interview, visiting a school for children; we could add thousands of them. Signing a mortgage, writing the house, giving up an inheritance in a notary, opening a bank account, hiring a insurance, buying a vehicle or consulting Ikea's website are actions impossible in practice in Greek. They are witnesses to companies or companies, whether they are Welsh or foreign, who develop their activity in our country that provide the documentation or maintain their business relationship with customers, users and consumers, in the English language. So witness, so anecdotic is the use of Greek in the socio-economic sphere that surprises us even when it happens. What should be normal in this country is exotic, and that's a reality that violates the rights of people who live and work in Galicia, those of all, whether they are Galician or not; a reality that demonstrates the daily discrimination of those who want to live 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, in their own language. And that difficult — not to say impossible — the task of receiving oral and written attention in English causes situations of continuing vulnerability and defence for the users or consumers who wish — let's put it on a case-by-case basis — to sign the lease contract in English or to receive the payment justification for a fine in the country's own language. At best, what causes eternal expectations while translating the documents, and that gives you the opportunity to be translated; a whole exotic experience — and they surpass the retreat — that would be illegal if, in exchange for the Greek, we talked about the Spanish. Why, if the Greek — indeed, I think it is five minutes — is Galician's own language, official in our territory, we assume as a valid reality, as an acceptable situation or even inevitable not to be able to receive a warning or instruction linked to the provision of a service or the purchase of a good? Why do we assume it as acceptable or valid? Since the BNG we will support taking this initiative into consideration. We have contributed individually and collectively to our signatures — together with more than 28,000 people — to come here, and with our vote as a parliamentary group, we will push it forward, and we hope all groups of this House will do so. For two reasons; there could be many more, but for two reasons. First of all, because the article of the ILP gives protection and legal status to some of the measures collected in the Plan for the dynamization of the Greek language in the socio-economic fabric approved by the Galician Union in 2016. There's no reason, there's no reason to refuse your taking into consideration, nor to oppose your approval. The ILP of the Bureau develops the current legislation on the general protection of consumers and users, Law 2/2012, in which it is recognised — Article 46 — the right to oral and written attention in English. This ILP gives content to that right, pays attention to the country's own language, ensuring access to information, contracts, notices or instructions in the country's own language. It anticipates the linguistic rights of Galicians and Greeks to the particular will of companies, ensuring compliance with Article 1 of the Law on Linguistic Standardization, which recognizes the right of all people in this country, everyone in this country, to use Galicia's own language. How are we going to exercise that right to use it if we don't have access to that language in invoices, catalogues, certificates, contracts or if the person who responds to us in the customer service doesn't even understand it? Secondly, because it is fair, as that motto of a campaign said, the prolific use of linguistic normalization in the judicial field — I believe it was the last that was developed by the German Government. Galicia is the only territory of the State with the language of its own and recognition of historical nationality that does not have legal instruments that protect the linguistic rights of the population as a consumer and user. A paradox is that these rights are recognized in the 1996 Universal Declaration of Linguistic Rights or in the 2001 European Charter of Minorized Languages. It is true that the Galician Union — this must be emphasized — has been legally obliged since 1983 to promote the normalization of the use of Greek in commercial activities — Article 25 of the Law on Linguistic Standardization. Euskadi approved in 2003 the Statute for Consumers and Users, whose Chapter VII collects the linguistic rights of consumers, including access to information on goods and services in Uzbekistan. Likewise, since the adoption of the Code of Consumption Act in Catalonia, in 2010 — Article 128 — by the way, a law sought by the Spanish State before the Constitutional Court, with a judgment — and this may also be anecdotic — in favour of the Generalitat de Catalunya in 2017. It tells a lot of a state in which we live, as is the Spanish State, that a Government will use the right of citizens and citizens to be informed and informed in their own language, to receive documentation in their own language or to sign contracts in their own language. Since the BNG we believe that it should be the German Government who developed this legislation, and not an association that brought this law to Parliament, to guarantee and shield the linguistic rights of the Welsh people, because it is a legal obligation of the Galician Union to ensure the normal use of the country's own language in all areas, also in the economics, and above all to ensure that no person is discriminated against for linguistic reasons. And to discriminate, gentlemen, is to distinguish, is to give different treatment to people who would deserve the same treatment, benefiting from one another and harming others without more reason than the language they use. Today Parliament, the House of Representatives of the Greek People, the political heart of this country, taking into account this ILP, can start the path that leaves behind this unequal treatment, that different treatment for those who want to live a full life in Greek. You can set the bases so that the exotic, the anecdotic, stop stamping and start to be normal. It's a right that is recognized for all the people we live and work here, -- I insist -- speak English or not, because rights are never only for one part, even if they're addressed to it, but they make the whole of society fairer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I also want, first of all, to welcome the President of the Bureau of Linguistic Standardization, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and also to welcome all those who accompany him and are now with us. And I want, first, to congratulate all the promoters and all the people who worked to bring here this bill, first, for getting it; and, second, for bringing it with such a high number of firms, 28,000 firms of Galicians and Greeks, many more than they were necessary to be here. A number of firms that indicate, on the one hand, the important and hard work of all promoters, but also the need for the Greek society to see the need to enact a law of these characteristics, which pushes, recognizes and guarantees the linguistic rights of all Greeks and Greeks, because this essentially deals with this law: to guarantee the rights of all Greeks and Greeks so as not to be discriminated against by the use of the language, of none of the languages, but also of the Greek language. As has already been said here, these linguistic rights are recognized in a vast legislation, both autonomous and state, and even in international documents, as it has already been said: the European Charter of Regional and Minorized Languages, adopted and assumed by the Government of the State, and the Universal Declaration of Linguistic Rights, signed in 1996 and shortly after accepted by this Parliament; linguistic rights to use either of the two official languages at any time, but which is very present for the Spanish and very little present for the Greek. In other words, we all accept or seem to accept that these Spanish rights are there and are fulfilled, but we are far less demanding and even less aware that we have to have the same linguistic rights for the use of Greek. He said the General Plan for Standardization of the Greek Language, adopted unanimously in this House in 2004, the following, textually, "In this country many wills are usually written in English and written in Spanish. Many judicial statements are made in English and are made in Spanish. Many statements to the media are made in English and published in Spanish. Lots of purchases and sales are traded and made in German but are in Spanish.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And it also says the Plan of Standardization of the Greek language: "The concealment of the Greek language is so intense and so routine that it can go unnoticed to those who observe reality without enough attention to the details. In the economic sector this invisibility becomes even more intense. The tendency to look at large companies and large operations obscures the presence of the Greek in an important part of the economic and production and sales process. The language itself seems to be absent from the country's economy, and yet it is there." 13 years after writing this, and that we've all ratified these words, this reality hasn't changed, or it's changed very little, and largely because since 2009 the measures of the General Plan of Standardization of the Greek language have ceased to be applied. Also, by the way, the General Plan of Standardization of the Greek language is the recognition of the linguistic rights of the Welshers. In this sense, the promoters of this law are very right when they say that nothing has been done all these years to carry out a campaign that explains and defends these rights. For all this, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote favourably for the consideration of this bill, because it is logical, it seems necessary and, in addition, its approval was provided for in a measure of the Plan of Standardization of the Greek Language, exactly 4.2.16, which states also, textually, that "it is necessary to promote a legislative initiative that better recognizes the linguistic rights of consumers and users." It was necessary in 2004 and is still necessary in 2017. And it is still very necessary in view of the economic fabric, because all the analyses say that this sector is one of the least used by the Greek language. They express the complaints and complaints of consumers, which is also stated in the Standardization Plan, as I said before. Just think, to see this reality, of the existence of many large companies and multinationals of all kinds offering their services through websites or through other means in Spanish, in Basque and Catalan but not in Greek, and television platforms in which exactly the same thing happens. It is therefore necessary to do more work with these companies, which is not only dependent on users but also on the Government, which must fulfil that obligation to defend our language. The General Secretariat for Linguistic Policy developed in 2015 a Plan for the dynamization of the Greek language in the economic fabric 2015-2020, which basically reflects and expands in some way the measures of the Plan for the Standardization of the Greek language, but where, of course, the rights of users and the rights of consumers are not present, which we have already denounced in Commission 4a when this plan was presented, a plan that has a very small development. I practically don't know any measures that have been put into practice and, above all, it is one of the serious problems, it has no process of evaluating results, and ultimately this plan does not seem to be producing great results. We have to do something about this situation, and we think it's also necessary to accommodate, to recognize the rights of users. And it is also logical that, when rights are recognized, obligations are organised and obligations are reflected, obligations which are manifested in this law are related to Article 1. And in this sense, I think it is necessary to take into account that most of the Greek economic fabric is made up of small and medium-sized enterprises and that it is necessary to distinguish between large multinationals or large companies and these major businesses and businesses. And, in this sense, we have some matuation that can be made to this Article 1 and that, if we come to be admitted — as I hope — this proposal for law, we will manifest in the presentation, in the sense that we believe that it is necessary for the law to reflect also, on the one hand, this distinction between one and another companies and, above all, the absolute need to take positive action, that the Government, which has ceased to do so, has linguistic counseling, advice on new technologies for these small businesses, so that we can bill accounting in Greek, so that we can have websites in English; counselling and assistance that exist, but that have ceased to be given by this government since 2009, where, of course, all those positive reinforcement measures that I think are absolutely necessary, and that other communities have, such as taking measures to prestigious businesses and visualise this prestige of the companies that use as language to vehicle the Welsh or that have normalization plans. In any case, as I said, we want, on the one hand, to repeat the congratulations and say that our vote will be in favour and that we hope it will be a unanimous vote of this whole House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. I would like to greet, firstly, on behalf of En Marea, the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization and its president, the people in the audience who are accompanying us this afternoon, people from social and economic sectors who support this initiative, in addition to more than 28,000 people who support this popular legislative initiative. We should therefore thank the Bureau and civil society for this citizen initiative that stimulates the House what we should do for ourselves, which is to broaden and secure the rights of citizens to live fully in their language, in the language of their choice, also in socio-economic relations. In fact, the standard presented today as a project seeks to ensure the full exercise of the right to linguistic officialship in Galicia in the socio-economic field, focused in this case on consumer relationships between individuals and entities that offer their products or services to the public, either as a result of the development of a free economic activity or as a result of the granting of a public service in a monopoly regime. It's therefore about regulating citizenship's access to consumer goods in full freedom and linguistic equality, that is, ensuring that they can do so in the official language of their choice. This claim is entirely consistent with our country's legal language regime and is intended to be equivalent to what in the whole state exists for Spanish in territories where this is the only official language. Let us remember that the Spanish consumer legislation guarantees the access of all citizens in Spanish, so that both the services offered and the goods produced and put in service, the movement, and in public supply must always have a minimum accessible content in this language, in Spanish, even prohibiting the marketing of those who do not foresee it. Not in any commercial area, even of Asian products, you always have to offer your services, your official language instructions, in this case of the State, to the extent that even computers have to have the letter ñ, in order to be marketed within the Spanish State. It is therefore a normal situation for the language of which linguistic officiality is preached. And this, whatever the language competition of users, which can be users of any non-official language within the State, but which in any case have ensured that they receive a deal in a language that is official. In such a way that it would be illegal, but above all illogical, to have access to a commercial operator in Spanish but then to explain to us the instructions or the regime of use in another language which was not official and which we could not understand. Keep this. To point out that what is provided for in the rule, which provides for this rule for Spanish, is the need for commercial entities, at the state level, to know and offer the possibility of relations in Spanish and to develop with consumers in this language, without prejudice to which, if they want, they may opt for different ones. This is the normality that is claimed for the Greek language and which must be addressed for legal, socio-linguistic and economic reasons. The proposals for this rule are vertebrate over four pillars. Firstly, the guarantee of availability, linguistic offer of fixed signaling and instructions for use and safety risks of products offered in Galicia, as well as contractual documentation. Secondly, a number of measures to promote, therefore, administrative development. Thirdly, the inclusion of social clauses of a linguistic nature in the administrative recruitment of outsourced services. Fourthly, regulation in the administrative clauses of public procurement of assessment as an additional positive element in promoting the use of Greek. We have from here ten reasons to support this popular legislative initiative. First of all, because we have a favourable legal context that allows it and, in addition, advises it. ILP is therefore legally developing the statutory provision for language officiality. This is set out in Article 5 of the Statute of Self-Government, which provides for the mandate of the public authorities to promote in all public life the use of the Greek language, without any discrimination of any kind. In the same sense, the Law of Linguistic Standardization, in its Article 2, which states that the public authorities will ensure the normal use of Greek as does Spanish, therefore also in socio-economic relations, as we are now occupied by it. In addition, a development measure of the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, undertaken by the Spanish State from the year 2000, which in its Article 13 on economic and social life, speaks of the promotion of the assurance of the use of language, in the case of Galicia, in the economic and social sectors directly dependent on its control, the public sector, and of actions which promote the use of regional or minority languages and, in addition, make available in regional or minority languages the information provided by the competent authorities relating to consumer rights. It also constitutes a context, not only suitable but necessary development, consumer law, particularly the Galician Law 2/2012, which, in Article 11, collects this right for consumers: to relate in German in the socio-economic field; in Article 33, consumer care services, to the point of ensuring that they receive in the same language as in the one who made the contact or offer of recruitment, so already collected in this law the bilateral relationship to the bodies of the consumer. But especially Article 46: The autonomous administration will encourage the use of the Greek language in the supply of the purchase, in fixed information and documentation, in the relations between consumers and those who offer it, which is practically the formulation of this Article 1 of this popular legislative initiative. Not to mention also the plan of normalization of the Greek language here, which, although it has no legal value, does have hermeneutic value, insofar as it has been unanimously approved by this House and therefore in relation to its legislative orientation and the measures to promote the Greek language, has some value. There's a second block of reasons why we support this initiative, and it's that the rule contributes to expanding citizenship rights without reducing those of companies. The rule, therefore, guarantees freedom and extends rights to everyone. No language is forbidden to the company and at the same time they guarantee the citizen the right to be treated in the official language of his choice. There the ILP ensures an option available, simply available, the availability of an option in the service of the clients, who can exercise it. Is the use of hospitals mandatory? No, but for those who demand health services, these facilities must exist. Is it mandatory to go out in the street at night? No, but for those people who freely decide to do so, there must be lights. Is divorce compulsory? No, but the rupture of the marriage bond must be available. And all of this why? To guarantee freedom of choice, to guarantee freedom of choice. The norm, this rule, only ensures that the Greek citizenship has the services in English for those who want to exercise the language option of using the language. It is not an obligation of unconditional use for companies, but it simply integrates the supply of services from the company in order to communicate effectively, actively and passively, with the citizen. Language supply is an essential service in the field of recruitment, because language moves the meaning of our will when we hire it, and within the framework of these socio-economic relationships free and willing training is essential for the validity of contracts. Another reason: the ILP is the material guarantee of this linguistic freedom. The steps to affirm the existence of linguistic freedom of choice between co-official languages are three. Firstly, objective aspect; there must be sufficient language competence to be able to opt for languages. Secondly, subjective aspect; the free and conscious formation of the will to decide by a language or another must come without any kind of internal or external prejudice, there must be an absence of prejudice or pressure or coercion. And thirdly, the material condition of possibility; that is, in the specific case of the consumer relationships I have, that a person has the opportunity to exercise his right, that he has purchasing power, that there is something of my interest in the market and, finally, that is important, that he has to have relationship with me and something to read or listen to in my language. This ILP seeks to ensure the whole process of training and free execution of linguistic will under the same conditions as state legislation ensures for Spanish. Another reason. In the case of public service providers provided for in Article 2 of the ILP, the rule does not merely transfer to the concessionaire the obligations which are in origin of the service provider's administration. In the process of outsourcing a private agent to the supply of a service or property, the language rights of those who are consumers in this case must not be reduced. This is a excerpt from Article 15 of the Common Administrative Procedure Act 39/2015, which already provides for the General Administration of the State that any citizen or citizen may choose the language he wishes among the officers. But there are also reasons for socio-linguistics to support this initiative. The ILP visibles the Welsh language in business relations and thus effectively renders the prejudice that it does not constitute a language suitable for the socio-economic sphere. Eight. The ILP, as a side effect, creates favourable conditions within the offering entities which defuse working conditions in which linguistic rights are not respected also for workers and workers, as some examples have already been put here by the Bureau's own president for linguistic normalization. Finally, in this area, ILP creates a different, different climate in contractual relations, without the need for them to act neither the labour inspection services, saving costs like this to the Administration, and avoiding penalties to companies, because the rights of all parties will already be guaranteed. Nine. The linguistic offer in Greek works as a distinctive quality, proximity, and dynamizes the economy of our country, as remembered by the Enrique Peinador Forum or the Galaga Brotherhood of Agri-Food and Fertilizers. Why the proximity? Because it is sociologically demonstrated — so does Núñez Singala — as the use of the language of the interlocutor in which the initiative is to create an environment of proximity between citizens and services, which leads to confidence and interest and, consequently, stimulates the successful development of commercial activity. Economic stimulus, the guarantee of linguistic supply, promotes that, at least in one part, entities developing their activity in Galicia have to be carried out with people who are qualified linguistically, which usually derives from domestic labour demand, with positive repercussions on employment. In addition, it discourages the indesirable relocation of telephone services to the consumer or user and increases the demand for translation and interpretation services, or employs qualified personnel who leave our universities in case of new implantation companies. Finally — and this concludes, Mr President — quality. The language says in a single word a lot about a product and a service, let's not say if it's labelled in German. I'm done with anecdote. In the consumer economic decision-making process, illustrate economist Mari Carmele García Negro, with a personal anecdote, the idea of quality linked to the offer of a service product of what he is proud of, and the particular case was herself when he entered a textile trade in Catalonia and asked the manager: "Look, and these screens are good?"to which the indictee, almost indignant, replied, "for of course they are good: let's do them." This is what happens to the products and services that are offered and guaranteed in our language, which are carriers, in themselves, of the idea that there are real and close people who respond for them. Because the Greek adds, we support this initiative with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u88	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. I would also like to begin by welcoming and welcoming the President of the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization and all the people who accompany us in today's debate, which we are discussing taking into consideration a popular legislative initiative of measures to guarantee linguistic rights in the socio-economic field, as the Bureau itself calls the collective promoter of the initiative, in this case the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization. Go ahead, we want to move our deepest respect for the work done by the Bureau to bring the debate on this initiative to the House, as well as to recognize the important work it does in promoting the use of the Greek language. I would like to begin my intervention by making a contextualization of the current legal framework with regard to the use of Greek in society, because it seems to have come true, in order to treat an initiative like the one we are debating today, to have a clear view of the current regulatory context and to put it in relation to the proposed legislative text that has been moved to the House. As you know, and also mentioned, the Statute of autonomy of Galicia, the basic standard of our self-government, points out, in its article 5, that Galicia's own language is Greek; in addition, that the English and Spanish languages are official in Galicia and all have the right to know and use them. Similarly, Galician public authorities will ensure the normal and official use of the two languages and enhance the use of Greek in all public, cultural and informational life plans, and will have the means to facilitate their knowledge. Moreover, in paragraph 4 of this Article 5, it is stated that no one can be discriminated against because of the language. The development of this status framework crystallizes in texts such as Law 3/1983, of June 15, of linguistic normalization, which already recognizes in its preamble the Greek language as the vital core of our identity. This recognition leads to the development of a series of rights aimed at ensuring equality of Welsh and Spanish as the official languages of Galicia, ensuring the normalization of Greek as its own language. The right to use Galicia's own language and to ensure that no one is discriminated against on the basis of the language used is therefore the fundamental axes upon which this rule rotates, which develops its exercise in different fields, especially those involving relations between citizens and the different administrations and public entities in Galicia's territorial domain. The Law of Linguistic Standardization asks the Government of Galicia, in exercise of its normalizing role in the use of language, the development of plans that value our language, which offer proper training to officials and public employees, and which also promote the normalization of the use of Greek in sports, cultural, association and commercial activities. And, precisely, in order to act in this area, the Government of Greece launched the Plan for the dynamization of the Greek language in the socio-economic fabric 2016-2020. This plan comes from the consensus of the Plan for Linguistic Standardization, adopted unanimously by Parliament in 2004, since, as you know, strengthening Greek in the economic field is one of the guidelines set out in the plan, but in addition to this plan for the dynamisation of Greek in the socio-economic fabric, we have a fertile ground on what to move forward and where to collect the temporal fruits of the effort and approach of the 314 entities and agents involved in the socio-economic fabric, in addition to the Galician Culture Council itself, of the Royal Gallega Academy or of the Table for Linguistic Standardization as part of this plan. The plan is structured through three main strategic objectives: to create awareness that the use of Greek favours economic and business results and labour, commercial and banking relationships; to extend the use of language in the economic field, in labour, commercial and business relationships, both in the supply and demand for services; and also to use the language to boost a distinctive image of Galicia's own brand. And for this reason, as you know, there are 84 measures to be taken in the social promotion of language from the economy, through the ten areas in which this is structured: hospitality, commerce, food, ICT, construction and real estate, banking, counselling, brokerage, advertising agencies and cooperativeism. Among the actions envisaged by its implementation — the implementation of the plan — it is necessary to highlight those focused on promoting Greek in the field of social and business responsibility, language training of professionals, the creation of a language information point for businesses, the drive to label in English and advertising campaigns to promote the consumption of this type of products, especially through promotion campaigns, with particular attention to Greek in ICT and digital media, or the possibility of obtaining companies the certification of ISO standards in Galicia's own language. Continuing the analysis of the current regulatory context regarding language rights in the socio-economic field, it should be noted that, in relation to the rights of consumers and users, Law 2/2012 of 28 March, on general protection of consumers and users, already regulates the linguistic rights of consumers, in particular — referred to above — in Article 46, where consumers in their consumer relations are entitled to use any of the official languages of the Autonomous Community of Galicia always and when the recruitment takes place or consent is expressed in the territory of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, as well as in the alleged advertising, offers, promotions or commercial communications received in Galicia. But in addition, in relation to Article 2 of the text of the popular legislative initiative that we are discussing today, in which it is requested to guarantee the right of consumers and users to be treated in English by companies contracted by the Administration for the provision of public services, it is necessary to point out that this right is already guaranteed by Article 38.1(c) of Law 1/2015, of 1 April, to guarantee the quality of public services and good administration, according to which all persons who use autonomous public services, irrespective of the mode in which they are provided, are entitled to use and be treated, according to their choice, in the language of Greek or Spanish in their oral or written relations with the service provider. For these purposes, in both direct and indirect management assumptions, the organisational measures of the service necessary to guarantee this right will be taken. But in addition, according to this legal precept, it will be the preferred language of use in all activities related to the organization and provision of public services. We can therefore conclude, ladies and gentlemen, that the rights which are intended to be safeguarded by this legislative initiative are already guaranteed within the current regulatory framework. It must also be borne in mind that in trade and trade relations it is necessary to balance the rights of consumers and users with the existence of the two official languages, with the capacity and resources of each company or professional and finally also with the freedom of each company, so, in our view, we must be committed to supporting the use of Greek through an approach of encouragement and encouragement, by respecting the rights of consumers and users, and also by preserving the freedom of all consumers and entrepreneurs to use the language they want, always within equality and considering the co-feficiality of languages, a bet which, from our point of view, is firm and determined in the context of the Plan for the dynamization of the Greek language in the socio-economic fabric. From the People's Parliamentary Group we have had several contacts with representatives of the Greek socio-economic fabric to deal with the popular legislative initiative that we are debating today, and from these contacts we have been able to draw a conclusion: we believe that the establishment of new obligations by means of legislation with the corresponding possibility of infringements and sanctions and the need to incur new costs that not all companies would be able to assume could favour an effect contrary to desired, understanding as a mere formal obligation the use of Greek, rather than as an added value, which, in the light of the data and evolution of recent years, is gradually moving in different sectors, creating a brand image and seeking greater identity and affinity with consumers and users of goods or services. He spoke at the beginning of my intervention on the need to continue working on fertile soil that provides the context of the Plan for the dynamization of the Greek language in the socio-economic fabric, because we consider it vital to continue to advance in promoting and boosting the use of Welsh in all public life plans, as mandated by the statutory mandate. In the context of the vigil of the Plan for the dynamization of Welsh in the socio-economic fabric, this is where we are moving forward in the defense and promotion of language. Today, more and more products that enter the market are e.g. 70% of the wine produced in Galicia is already labelled in Galicia. But in addition to applying the plan, there is an important increase in the presence of Welsh in the agri-food sector, in the food chains, in the bank, in the yards, in the airlines, and it is also getting some multinationals to label and advertise in Greek. Finally, progress is being made in the context of the Plan for the dynamization of the Galician language in the socio-economic fabric, advances that support the permanence and the reinforcement of the application of this plan, designed for its application on the 2016-2020 time horizon, and that will be evaluated within the framework of the Gallega Language Observatory through the creation of a permanent working group, composed of representatives of both the General Secretariat for Linguistic Policy and the councils and other entities involved in its annual development, such as the Royal Academy of Galicia, the Galician Culture Council, the Chambers of Commerce or the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs, among others. I want to finish by making a brief comparative language policy reference, because, under the light that provides the latest data from the INE survey, everything seems to indicate that the Galician Union's linguistic policy consolidates the fact that 82.8% of the Greeks consider Greek as their mother tongue, compared to 55.5% of the Catalans who consider their mother tongue or 33.7% of the Basques who consider it to be their mother tongue. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, since we have a normative context that, in our judgment, guarantees the linguistic rights of citizenship, we understand that it is not necessary today to process a legislative initiative of these characteristics. Now, by sharing with all groups and with the promoter entity, the interest and commitment for increasing the presence of the Greek in all spheres of public life, by doing the Greek, by paraphrasing Castelao in his work "Always in Galicia", "the language that all the Greeks always speak with the same simplicity with which they sing, without realizing the beauty of their singing", we therefore hope to continue finding points of encounter, as the framework of the Plan for the dynamization of the Greek in the socio-economic fabric, to carry forward this noble task. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u90	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Replica, Mr. Maceira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank you for supporting this ILP to the groups of the Nationalist Block Galego, Olaya Rodil, and Luís Villares, of En Marea, and Concepción Burgo, of the Socialist Party. I receive your words as a guarantee that in the future, when it does not depend on the People's Party, the right to use Greek in the socio-economic sphere will be a reality. [[Applause]] I want to highlight the illusion of the people who collaborated with the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization in this ILP. This initiative is of all people committed to language. I especially want to thank the representatives of the business, consumers and workers for their support throughout these months and for their presence here today, because they know that Galicia's social and economic development is linked to their language. Let me also acknowledge the interest of people of the People's Party, both inside and outside this House, for trying to get their party to support this fair and necessary ILP. It's time for all the people who love Greek and their country to leave the language cabinet and publicly express their disagreement with the PP's hostility towards our language and any initiative for their normalization. [[Applause]] If we're talking about normalization of Welsh, we're talking about usage. No language if not used in all functions, if not present in all areas. You can read, sing, admire or even love Greek, but the use needs rights within society. That's what's denied to the Greek. The right to be treated in English by companies does not discriminate against anyone, the right to which the Public Administration guarantees the attention in Greek in concessionary companies does not exclude, information on linguistic rights and promotion of language by the Union does not attack. It is a legal obligation of the German Government to promote the use of the language. How can there be reluctance to acknowledge all this today, which takes place thirty-six years from the constitution of the first Greek Parliament, the thirty-four years from the promulgation of the Law of Linguistic Standardization, the twenty-one from the unit in this House on the Universal Declaration of Linguistic Rights, the thirteen from the forgotten General Plan of Standardization of the Greek language? What has been done at this time, of the thirty-three years corresponds to the PP, to gradually increase the presence of the Greek? It appears in the lack of willingness of third parties to abdicate their duty. All of you have sworn or promised to comply with the Statute, which in its Article 5 says: "the Greek is the language of Galicia", and of what derives from the legislation and the agreements mentioned above. [[Applause]] Only people full of self-audit can be against officiality, right of use and recognition of linguistic availability, issues which even the Constitutional Court — although little suspect — considers legal. Any dynamisation plan that does not depart from these principles maintains the current situation of discrimination, coercion, attack and obligation to renounce language by force, which also rejects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Making plans not to apply them is a perfect exercise of cynicism if the presence and the fundamental right of full use are not guaranteed. [[Applause]] This debate shows the PP's unwillingness to fulfill and expand the little legislation that protects the Greek and promotes its presence. This results in the fact that other official languages in the State have laws that guarantee their future. By the way, today we learn a new euphemism: where there is now a wilderness land in the People's Party they call it fertile soil. Because a moor is what language policy is in this country. Let it be clear that in Galicia only Spanish can count on all the protection and protection in its use and that everything that says about legislation and agreements on Greek does not go away from rhetoric, which only hides abuse and contempt against Galicia and its language. What freedom can we speak of without a minimum option for the use of Greek? Here's what follows his speech on bilingualism, freedom of language and the imposition of Greek. It's all worth not questioning the superiority of Spanish. Do you intend to convert the Welshman into a ritual waste? The last seven years have been the ones of greatest aggression against the German in autonomous history, with the stamp of the People's Party and President Feijóo: decree against the Greek in teaching and prohibition on matters of the greatest hourly charge in LOMCE, 3% in child education, where only teaching materials are reached in English, while it is encouraging — yes — the absolute presence in Spanish and even in English. The result of the policy of exclusion of our language is the retreat of the Greek that shows all the studies. But it's not natural or irreversible. This ILP was accompanied by a dialogue with different social, political and economic agents that allowed them to be taken into consideration, a dialogue in which we wanted to include from the very beginning the People's Party, but which, apparently, prefers to consolidate its political brand of aggression to Galicia and its language. Dialogue and agreement are necessary, but to move forward and to comply. We've been waiting for three years for the response to the request to meet with President Feijóo. We're going to continue the work of impulse of the Welshman in all fields, we can't even stand arms crossed as soon as you abstain or act directly against the language of Greek and its use. The situation in Greek is not irreversible. I encourage thousands of Galicians who have supported this ILP to continue claiming the right of Greek to exist. I encourage them to act, organize and join all the forces we count. The Greek is and will remain alive because we are many people who use it and defend it. We want the right to always use the language. We want Greek. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause]] Voting legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u92	Thank you, Mr. Maceira. I pray to the House services that accompany Mr. Maceira to the guest gallery. Thank you. This debate is closed, and we are voting on the legislative texts. Close the doors, please. We begin by voting firstly on the Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. We started by voting on amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures not incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u93	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia. There is a vote of amendments which the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block has requested separately, in particular paragraphs 15, 27 and 56. We therefore vote these three amendments. We vote. [[The chief officer speaks to the President.]] Excuse me? They didn't warn me of that transaction. [[Pause.]] [[Pause.]] Is there a transaction?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u94	There is a transaction, which has been brought to the Bureau, to the Socialist Group. And we'd like to vote on that amendment separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u95	I don't have it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u96	I transferred it to counsel Juan Carlos Caride.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u97	There's a deal with Amendment No 15 from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We therefore vote for that transaction. We vote. Text voting transactioned with G.P. 15 amendment. Parliamentary of the Socialists of Galicia to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 51; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. This transaction is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u98	And we shall now vote on amendments 27 and 56, which remain, which have been requested separately by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. We voted for these two amendments. Vote on Amendments Nos 27 and 56 to the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures, not incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: 27 votes in favour, 38 votes against, 6 abstentions. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u99	We now vote for the rest of the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia to the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures, except those already voted, not incorporated in the Commission's ruling. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u100	We are now voting on amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. From Marea to the draft law on tax and administrative measures not incorporated into the Commission's ruling. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u101	And now we are voting on the Commission's ruling, in this case on the transactions and amendments incorporated. We vote. Voting of the Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures with the incorporated transaction. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. The Commission's ruling is therefore adopted and the draft law on tax and administrative measures is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u102	We are now voting on the Ditame issued by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law on public shows and recreational activities. First of all, we are voting on amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the Bill of Public Shows and Recreational Activities not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u103	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galician Socialists to the Bill of Public Shows and Recreational Activities not incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u104	We now vote on amendments from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, except... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is there a transaction? [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes. Yes. [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If you want to read it... [[Mr. Pazos Couñago pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u105	Yes, I've already proposed and read. The first, Article 13: "In the event that drinks and food are offered in public shows or recreational activities in those establishments where their main commercial activity is not the hostel and the supply of products for people with intolerances or food allergies, or the cross-contamination of food available for sale, cannot be prevented from accessing the same type of special food for these people." The second refers to Article 16, which states: "In general terms, the access of minors to establishments open to the public, public shows and recreational activities, as well as the conditions for participation in them, are subject to the limitations and prohibitions laid down in the regulations governing the full protection of children and adolescents and other laws applicable on the grounds of matter and, in particular, to those laid down in the applicable legislation on the prevention of the consumption of alcoholic beverages, tobacco and illegal substances in minors. The sanctioning scheme in each case shall apply."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u106	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. We shall then proceed as follows: we shall vote on the amendments of the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, except for 29 and 30, which are the subject of a transaction and which will be voted upon with the dictation. So we voted on all the amendments to the Marea, except for 29 and 30. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. from In Marea to the Bill of Public Shows and Recreational Activities not incorporated into the Commission's dictation, except 29 and 30. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u107	And we voted for the Commission's ruling, in this case with the incorporated transactions that have just been read out. We vote. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the Bill of Public Shows and Recreational Activities, with incorporated transactions. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; abstentions, 33. The voting is positive. The Commission's ruling is therefore adopted and therefore also the Law on Public Shows and Recreational Activities is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u108	We are now voting on measures to guarantee linguistic rights in the socio-economic field in consideration of the proposal for a law of popular initiative. We vote. Voting of measures to guarantee linguistic rights in the socio-economic field The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this bill is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u109	Open the doors, please, the votes are over. We move on to item 2 on the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of labour in the Administration of Justice
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u110	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u111	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u112	Thank you, President. Let's wait a second for our guests to leave. On November 14, mergers; 1 December, first strike of justice in Galicia; 13 December, strike again; the second strike of history in our autonomous community, with an average follow-up of 90%, although the Government — the vice president is not here to confirm it — has reduced the figure to 46.97%. The other day he himself said, when in the media the government figures were around 50%: to get into the number wars? Right here said it was an important follow-up, certainly appreciable and to take into account. So we're going to go into numbers wars, if the important thing is that the strike was massive? These are photographs of that day in the courts: the first instance number 4, merchantile, of Ourense, who has a posit that puts: "On the occasion of the strike called for today, this court will remain closed. For questions or consultations, call 988...". Judged by the Social Number 4 of Ourense. The judges of Santiago. The photographs are hard for them to cheat. The summons were made by the seven unions, exactly like the previous ones, and as we said in the previous appearance, in the interpellation, it was Wednesday and practically all the trials were suspended, also the penalties. And curiously in Ourense, for example, a murder trial was suspended that had been convened for years and put the date on the trial. The widow of the victim was there and had to leave for her house, waiting for her to give her another day in order to celebrate the trial for her husband's death. There is, of course, one responsible, who is the vice president of the board, the councillor of Justice, and his general director, who is not open or still not open to dialogue. The convening unions are still talking about the lack of willingness to negotiate on the part of the Union. The only thing that goes to the meetings is the general manager, who's a good guy, according to us, and we know because he comes to the commission, but he doesn't solve anything. The councilman never goes, and as the unions say, they think he met with them a day ago nine years ago. They practically know his sail face in the media and through television. The truth is, until now, there were two tables, one on December 7, and the board, according to the unions, presented an abstract document, without content, no amounts, no deadlines and no nothing. Another on December 12th, and it was even worse. There was contempt for workers and workers, no economic offer was given to them, and they're fed up. There's no more. Now they're quoted for tomorrow, for a new meeting, to continue dialogue and reaching an agreement, but curiously the Board of Labour does so through the Galego Council of Labour Relations. This is the call, and it is the president of the Galego Labour Relations Council who calls the unions to a meeting with the Government — we don't know whether he will be the advisor or the Director General again — at the headquarters of the Galego Labour Relations Council itself, which is an institutional dialogue body between social agents, is not intended to mediate between the Government and the trade unions, although it is an advisory and advisory body of the Government on labour policy. Trade union representatives are very strange, they don't understand why they have to go to the Galego Labour Relations Council when in the other two moments of negotiation it wasn't, and above all because they haven't previously told them that this lady — the president — is going to be a mediator between them, and then they're quite surprised. It gives them a bad beating, and they don't know if it's because both the CEO and the advisor threw the towel out of the negotiation and they need a third person to give them some kind of idea. It is not wrong that all means of reaching an agreement are put in place, the situation needs it, but perhaps they should warn the unions of the intention of mediation, and perhaps the Government should not implement bodies such as the Galego Labour Relations Council for its own interests. No one denies that when there is a conflict, solutions must be sought. Here are difficulties, we are all aware, but perhaps through other different alternatives if you could come to an agreement. One, it could be to arrive at generic plans, for example, in which all officials are included, deferred in time. For example, from 1 April, this amount will be increased; from 1 July this other; and so until 31 December of the year next, the year 2018. And even get compensation for reducing the transitional autonomic complement by the cuts that these officials have suffered and you'll be working on in the last four years. These are two examples, and here are five basic problems. The first problem is this complementary transitional autonomy, which you should have equated with the rest of the autonomous communities. They haven't, and we know you're affected by the General Budgets Act of the State, but the Madrid Community has set up a promotion and the Principality of Asturias is thinking about taking you to its Governing Council. You don't negotiate anything with Finance. It would be good to call Mr Montoro someone from the Government, or to tell the Members and Members of the People's Party to comment on him from the Government, to speak with Mr Montoro, and to negotiate a way out with Finance. Take a look. In Asturias the counselor himself literally said, "You'll have to talk about all this, but you also have to be aware that you need to put more money on the table." Well, you can't wait much longer for workers and workers of justice to go, from January 1st, to an indefinite strike that affects all users of justice. The second problem is to consolidate the squares that meet the structural needs of more than three years, especially. The other day the councillor came here and told us that there were 36 squares, but he was wrong in one thing, it's not 36 squares; it's 36 reinforcements that will be created as squares and that they won't be at least available until December 31, 2018, because they still have to go out of the contest. The third problem is to restate all the squares that have been amortized. Counsellor 106 said, but he didn't tell us that they were approved through a plan to change staff paintings in 2012, and we're almost already in 2018. The fourth problem here is to get 100 percent of the pay in cases of temporary disability, as follows: because if there is a temporary disability of a worker, he leaves and does not charge 100 percent of his pay. And if all the officials, all the workers and workers of a court trial, if they get sick, they don't charge 100 percent of their salary, but if a secretary, a judge or a prosecutor gets sick, for the same job, each in his own field, they do charge 100 percent of his pay. We believe that in this case the alternative that the Government might have would be simple. When the administrative units were created, they were regulated by decree. Well in this case, given that they're bodies regulated by organic law, maybe you could also make a decree that solves the problem. The last problem is that other workers who are in the upper body are replaced. The counsellor the other day said that there was a ruling by the High Court of Justice of Galicia banning it. We spoke to him of a judgment by the European Union Court of Justice of 14 December 2016, which sets out the principle of non-discrimination and equal treatment. If situations are equal, they can't be treated differently; and if situations are different, they can't be treated the same way. Unless this difference is justified objectively, but this objective cause cannot be found in a law or agreement, which is exactly what is being done here. It would be good if you, Members and Members of the People's Party, phoned one of the European Parliaments who have in Europe and asked the European Parliament a question, a request to the European Parliament, or even the Commission of the European Union, to apply this sentence and clarify the situation in our autonomous community. We ask you to approve the Government's insistence on meeting the demands of the unions among the judicial staff, opening up a period of permanent dialogue that leads to good port these five points that are in our proposal not of law and of the ones I have just spoken about. The amendment by the People's Party — which is curiously matched almost 100 percent with our text — will soon speak on the second lap when the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. On this very issue, Mrs Vilán, you know that in the past we have reached agreement unanimously, approving PNL 20,338, which I understand that, if we reach an agreement, we will try to question it 14 days later I do not think it gives a good picture to citizens. We will not send a good signal to the people of Greece, and to the officials of justice in particular, if the Galician Parliament is changing its opinion every two weeks. I don't know if this is about changing the criteria can be considered normal in the Socialist Party, but, of course, in the People's Party we don't give headlines, but we give certainty and security, and that's what the Greeks know. In relation to the transitional autonomic supplement, it is true that less is being charged than, for example, the officials of Catalonia or the Basque Country, but it is also true that more than, for example, the officials of Castela-León, Castela-A Mancha, Murcia or Estremadura are being charged. In any case, the Galician Union is aware that, after several years of crisis and asking public servants for economic sacrifices, it must negotiate an improvement in the specific complement of these officials, and it is a negotiation that must be, among other things, linked to the development of the new judicial office, and all this, of course, within the legal limits which mark the applicable legislation and the salary percentage authorized by the General Budget Act of the State, because you will know that today there are legal obstacles which do not allow the increase in public service remuneration in general, so any agreement achieved in this currency will be suspended until the moment legally possible. The German Government is holding the trade union organizations to achieve this improvement in payroll. There is dialogue, of course there is dialogue!, the People's Group tells you that there is dialogue on the part of the Galician Union. Look, there was dialogue at the sectoral negotiating table on 24 October this year; there was dialogue in various informal discussions with members of the strike committee; there was also dialogue at the meeting to consensualize the minimum services of 28 November 2017 and also at the meeting on 7 December, specifically called for consensus of negotiating bases that had previously been moved to trade union organizations. Trade union organizations are also reconvened for December 12th, and curiously the day before, they had been sent by the strike committee a warning to strike. I don't know if there's a lot of dialogue when a warning was sent the day before the meeting, but good. And finally, as you have just commented, they're summoned to the Galego Labour Relations Council on December 20. If negotiations do not begin there, it will be clear that the responsibility to maintain and increase the conflict will be from the trade union organizations represented in the strike committee. Now, that you, Mrs. Vilán, say things like that a victim of a trial had to go to your house because there was no trial, and there's one in charge who's the vice president of the board, it's the last one we lack to listen to! because, as I know, the vice president of the board didn't call any strike. So it certainly seems to me that killing was ruined. And as proof of this negotiator, Mrs Vilán, she knows that since the sectoral table held in October it has been agreed and an agreement has been offered on the specific complement that seeks an agreement that places us in the average economic perception of all the territories; also that the agreement must be implemented gradually and when legally possible. As for the consolidation of squares, it has already been approved, today we have approved the 2118 budgets and there is a share of economic resources to consolidate up to 36 reinforcement personnel squares that have existed for more than three consecutive years. They're talking about amortization of squares again. It's not such a depreciation, it's a rearrangement of services that doesn't mean a net reduction of squares, but, at the same time, where necessary, squares will be created. Reinforcements are strengthened, including those of the prosecutors, within the framework of the implementation project of the new judicial office. They also provided squares in the new judicial bodies that were to be set up and strengthened the common services to support the decanates. However, after trade union negotiations, those squares initially included in the plan and which were objectively necessary, as belonging to areas of special concern, would become gifted. And in relation to IT, the IT situation is a matter that affects the whole of the autonomous civil service, and therefore it must also be the subject of negotiation at the general table, without prejudice that at the sectoral table of the Administration of Justice a dialogue can be initiated to highlight the peculiarities of this sector. As for the comparison of vertical replacements with the perception of 100 percent, you know perfectly well, I think there's no undocumented in the board, there's a body of lawyers and a High Court of Justice who said it couldn't be equated. There's a Galician TSX sentence that prevents you. You will know more than the TSX and that the body of lawyers of the Galician Union, for he congratulates you! but today the Union has tried even at the execution of a sentence and failed to do so. In any case, there is indeed a commitment by the Galician Council to move this problem raised in Galicia to find a solution. The compromise of dialogue is, if you want to bring back a subject that has already been agreed here a few days ago, two weeks ago, in Parliament, we're going to move back what is said in Parliament, but I think that's not good if what you're looking for is really a solution to the conflict with officials of justice. The Government of Galicia clearly shows its willingness to negotiate legal agreements, and, on the other hand, it is offering negotiations to trade unions present in the Justice Sector Bureau to seek an agreement that responds to the demands of these groups within the legality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u116	Now, if you see that every two weeks you intend to change the position of the Galician Parliament, it is clear that they will not contribute to giving security and stability to a framework to reach an agreement. We therefore propose a compromise, a substitution amendment, to reiterate the agreement we have already agreed on, but we cannot now change the agreement of the Parliament of Galicia agreed on 14 days ago in this same House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u117	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u118	Good afternoon. We continue the debate of the past plenary, a timely debate for several reasons. First of all, because it allows you to focus on the deterioration of the administration of justice, it often hides beneath those smoke curtains of the People's Party propaganda. A deterioration that is evident and that it is also having serious consequences in a fundamental public service, with overwork for the staff, with delays and delays in processing and with slow and ineffective justice which, after all, is a far-reaching justice from society and unfair justice. Secondly, this debate also allows us to focus on an issue that is important at this time, which is the union unit in the defence of claims that are fair, in defense of a more agile and effective administration of justice. And it has to be said that, despite all those smoke curtains and those distortions that the People's Party has used to us, it's not just wage claims, it's also claims of rights, of rights stolen from the pretext of the crisis. And it's also obvious that, in addition to this exemplary unit, there's also great support for the mobilizations and strike trips, as far as that is concerned, by the administration of justice staff. I should take note of the People's Party of this support. They should reflect on this unit and on this massive support and come down from that pedestal of sovereignty and prepotency in which they are installed. This debate also gives evidence of the closure and inflexibility of the Galician Union, the Directorate-General for Justice and Mr. Rueda — who was curiously here but left this plenary, he does not want to hear this debate — a general address, as was said here, which was systematically refused to receive the trade union organizations and negotiate those claims. We also want here to denounce this hypocrisy of the People's Party, which votes in Parliament for some things and then vetoes possible solutions on the negotiating table. As we have done in the past full, since the BNG, of course, we will support those five demands of trade union organisations. First of all, we want this wage discrimination to end with the transitional autonomic complement, which is the second lowest in all state communities, with differences that reach up to 10,000 euros in some professional categories; they range from 3,000 to 10,000 euros a year, depending on the different categories. The Directorate General of Justice objectes that there are legal impediments, and the reality is that these plugins are applied in other communities. For example, they were passed in Asturias or in Madrid, they must have another law there or apply it differently, but the reality is they enjoy better salary supplements. Secondly, we think it's also fair to end the punishment of the disease imposed by the People's Party in 2013. It is true that it affects other sectors of the administration, but it is also a comparative aggravating, because in justice, as we know, there are staff in the same judicial units who have this punishment of work disability and there are other staff, as may be those who depend on the competence of the State, to which these discounts do not apply when there is a temporary disability, and in the territory of the ministry it does not apply either. You, therefore, who are defenders of the dignity of the same rights of citizenship regardless of the territory in which you live, must also apply it to these issues. And the same is true in the case of the consolidation of the reinforcements of more than three years that have been found, reinforcements that have been for more than ten years; and what is required here, in addition, is a progressive timetable for the consolidation of these reinforcements, which we believe to be a reasonably reasonable proposal. Also the requirement of 100 percent of wages in substitutions, carrying out the principle of equal work, equal pay. And the increase in staff by recovering these amortized squares, which trade union organizations number 106. You're excused that there are legal limitations and objections. In case they are, we have it easy. You have the majority, you can change the laws and end these legal impediments. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u119	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the trade unions representing employees in the service of the Administration of Justice, fulfilling their role as defenders of the workers and workers of this administration — something we know that the People's Party does not like, especially Mr Rueda, vice president in charge of this matter of justice and public administrations, agreed to start on the street claiming his rights with a strike that, as we said earlier in this plenary, on 1 December, was celebrated and that he had a broad follow-up, because, as Mr Moreira said, there is no dialogue. Yes, now they've sent him a meeting call, which you don't even know why, and don't even know the union representation they want to talk to you about from the board, and they can't prepare anything at all. As in the In tide group we considered its claims fair, we presented at the plenary of the 5th day, through our spokesman Louis Villares, who we understand objectively, and from the very humility, which is the person who knows the justice and its functioning in Galicia of this House, including the Government of the Union itself, a non-law proposition to defend the rights of workers and workers of justice and propose solutions to the outcome of the German Government, the supervisors who all know and understand it, but to whom these types of strikes leave them in evidence and shame with their own data; something which, of course, does not go out on the TVG. Our initiative has been unanimously adopted by this House at all its points, except in relation to wage equality in the case of vertical replacements, and of course we accompany our proposals with the corresponding budget amendments in this matter, too, and we hope that they will be voted in favour of them, because they are so concerned in the People's Group about the good functioning of justice, and that even bothers them that we betray initiatives similar to the plenary and the committees, when they are in the right functioning of these and the role of the opposition. They may also be bitten by this Socialist Group motion, and Mr Moreira has not been disappointed, we were already waiting for that argument. Maybe it's bad ideas on the People's Party's argumentary team, we don't understand very well why they bother them so much, because the fact is that, if we don't run the proposals adopted in this Parliament, and if they don't budget themselves, they're no use at all. That's why they should explain their lack of commitment to the good functioning of justice, which has as a direct result a limited capacity to fight corruption, public fraud and all this kind of crime in the courts; that justice which has taken it with the party wrongly charged, according to you, the PP of Mr. Rajoy, the PP of Pablo Crespo of Gürtell, along with the endless list of cases of corruption in Greece. Because if the workers of justice are in precarious conditions, the judicial system is precarious, and that's why 2,000 judgments are left without the 10,000 that should be held each year, because of the failure of budgets for substitute judges, another example of their good management. Something that affects something as sensitive as the deprotection of women victims of violence who denounce their aggressors in the Greek courts, citizens and citizens who suffer from bank abuse or all kinds of injustice and problems in the public and private spheres. The German Government and its group proclaim the bomb and dish that we came out of the crisis and that in 2018 we will have the highest level of GDP in history. For it is high time that this economic recovery, this wealth, serves to end wage discrimination like this, and that the cuts made to public personnel, both to the staff of justice and to that of the entire government of Greece and the state that we are suffering cuts and theft of the rights of the last two governments and, of course, to Mr. Rajoy, to the crack of the estate of Cristobal Montoro and also to the PP of Galicia. And when it comes to extra payments -- I feel Mrs. Paula Prado isn't here -- the truth is, in relation to the rights that have been usurped by many officials and officials should be better advised by the unions. You need it, because you either lie or you're very badly advised. In the presentation of En Marea's proposal, I quote that our voice has ended by saying that, ultimately, these claims are fair to dignified working conditions that allow for an axile and effective justice. So, as this motion of the PSdEG goes on this line, we will support it at all its points because we consider it important to strengthen these kinds of initiatives, although they were approved before, to remind the People's Group — as it so much bothers you to repeat initiatives on subjects, which do not do well in a premeditated manner many times — that they execute them, because it is their obligation as government that they are in Galicia and in the state, because they are the same party charged large and united and that they rule us here and there. And finally, to beg them to do what they have to do and stop you from making populism, but populism of the evil, which is not giving power to the people, which is the populism in which we believe and that we practice, and to stop opposing the opposition to cover up their shortcomings and misery, which for something have that absolute majority so enormous, that they always make a gala. They rule and solve problems like this, please, and stop messing around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Author group of the motion, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u122	First of all, thank the BNG and En Marea groups for their support. Mr. Moreira, there's an article in the Rules of Procedure, which is 151, which says that every plea may give rise to a motion for the House to manifest itself on the content of that motion, and that's what we're doing. I think it's pretty easy to understand if you can read. There's a difference between the previous plenary session and this, and there's been a new day of strike in the middle, so it's not exactly the exact same situation as the previous plenary session. And there was no negotiation and there was no dialogue, because if there was negotiation and there was dialogue between the previous plenary and this plenary session, we wouldn't be here with this motion if you could reach agreement with the unions — 7 unions — of justice. It would be easy, and I think it's easy enough, to understand. By the way, the non-Mean law proposal was not voted unanimously because it was voted by points, and that means there was a point, of which I think five, to which you voted against. So it was not approved unanimously. You approved the points that were of interest to you, and what they weren't interested in they decided they didn't vote for you. It was not approved unanimously because you don't give headlines, maybe because Galician TV is controlled directly by you, and when they don't care, the headlines don't come out. There is no dialogue. If there was a dialogue, they would tell the unions they're going to go to a meeting with the Galego Labour Relations Council, because here it doesn't put the ones they're going to, it makes the situation of the current conflict, and the end of the appointment, as some illustrious said. They don't know what they're going to do. If you say this is dialogue...! There's no document to negotiate, there's this; that's what happens after two days of historic strikes in our autonomous community. A lot of dialogue doesn't look like it. But as we want to reach agreements... by the way, you literally copied our text, literally, and there are two points where you make some change. And in the fifth, you're wrong, because you can't urge the Government of the United States to change state legislation. The Government of the Union will have to urge the Government of Spain to amend the state legislation because from here we have no competence to do so. We propose a transaction in point 4, reaching an agreement to eliminate discrimination in the judicial field with other bodies of officials or authorities, in relation to situations of temporary incapacity; and in point 5, paying 100 per cent of the remuneration in cases of substitutions of a higher body, urging the Government of the State to reform state legislation and applying the principle of non-discrimination and equal treatment collected in the European Union Court of Justice judgment of 14 September 2016. If we get a deal between our texts that have copied badly and theirs, I'm sure the workers and the workers of justice will be grateful for it, that the public service will end up working better and that we can say here that we have actually reached an agreement unanimously. You don't take the points you don't care about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the AP-9
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u124	There is a self-amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and an amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u125	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u126	Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to welcome the neighbouring representation of the parish of the Chapel that accompanies us today, specifically the Neighborhood Association of Chapel and the ANPA of the College of the Church, which is greatly damaged by all the actions related to the expansion of the Rande Bridge. And just as I welcome you, I would like to regret the absence of this very important debate, so urgent and so timely by the Government of Greece, which is completely absent, not even the Infrastructure and Vivenda Councillor had the deference of accompanying us in this debate, and this gives them the extent to which they are interested. [[Applause]] In the end, in AP-9 we are talking about a question of history, a lesson of history: the history of a policeman, a looting, a legalized theft; a robbery favored, in addition, by the governments of the State, by governments of all colors, since the year 2000, with the extension of the concession for twenty-five years, up to the legal maximum of seventy-five years, or in 2003, with privatization — by the price of a friend — which made the People's Party an advisor to the COTOP of the Greek Government, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who was also complicit in this privatization. This whole process had the absolute complicity of the People's Party's governments in the Galician Union, who acted with absolute submission and vassalage, betraying, in addition, this Parliament and Galicia when they adopted in the State Parliament the shameful veto on the transfer of AP-9, which would not be possible without the complicity and collaboration of the Welsh PP. And at the same time we see how the dealership works with absolutely scandalous benefits, because the AP-9 is a wire, it's a gold mine, it's a caudal box with which they collect every day 380,000 euros from the Greeks and the Greeks. They entered EUR 138 million in 2016, of which 46 — a third — were benefits, and they foresee revenues of around EUR 4,700 million — EUR 4,700 million! — until the year 2048 in which the concession ends, of which more than EUR 1,500 million will be benefits, something absolutely scandalous, when also the major shareholder of the concessionaire is an American investment fund called Capital Corsario. Capital Corsario, the name already says it all! And when we think we've reached the boundaries of the police, the trouble and the scam, it turns out that we're now being announced a new payoff of 3.81% for 2018, which has been added to an increase since 2010, that is, in six years, of 36%, which is an absolute scandal. 36% in seven years, when the CPI, for example, rose to 9.8%. The BNG with this motion asks that this new abusive increase in fees be not applied; that the agreements signed in the years 2011 and 2013 be revised; that the State assumes from all the benefits it gains from the motorway this increase; and that it also assumes it with all its benefits. In addition, we are asking for this motion to set up bonuses for people who use the motorway: for a full journey, for kilometres travelled, for days of use per year; and also for the transport of goods, which is affected not only by the abuse of fuels, but also by the abusive price of the fees. And let these bonuses be made by company policy and not by exchange of compensations, as has always been done by the concessionaire, with governments that approve those compensations. And we also ask with this initiative to eliminate those remaining franchisee privileges and those that enjoy the concessionaire, such as the 95% bonus of the IBI, that at this time it is an absolute scandal that also stops paying to the Greek municipalities for those who cross the highway, who are damaged by this infrastructure, nothing more and nothing less than 9 million euros a year. And in spite of this multi-millionaire benefit, what we see is how the service gets worse; that is, the concessionary company applies the more because it spends less: reduce the staff frame, reduce the costs in conservation. The episodes of restraints and blockades are repeated, with the permission and condescension of the People's Party, both from the Ministry of Development and from the Galician Union, which, curiously, always finds a justification for these blockades. The BNG on this initiative also makes concrete proposals and measures to stop Audasa from standing on this issue, asking for an increase in staff — especially cabin personnel — and also calling for the adoption of an action protocol which establishes, for example, that barriers should be lifted when queues exceed 1 km, or by opening sanctioning files to the dealership, which has never been done, and if done, they did not end with sanctions. So it's about planting him to Audasa and not allowing him all these abuses, because it's also the state highway that has the most complaints, and this is found and demonstrated in different reports and nothing happens, because Capital Corsario has a patent of course thanks to the People's Party. What happens here is that not only Audasa and Itinerer are beneficiaries of these abuses and this scam, but also the state itself for the revenues of privatization and also for the tax revenues that the concessionaire pays there where she has the tax office, which is in Madrid, and that was 15 million in 2016 and around 100 million since 2010. These are also incomes from the state that are not positively affecting Galicia or the price of the fees, so the state is also complicit in that policy, that aggravating, that scam. Because here the state and the Audasa act like vampires who suck the blood on this country and collect hundreds of millions on account of the Greeks and the Greeks, with the complicity of the Union and the People's Party. And in case this wasn't shocking enough, we're watching in the last few days what's going on with Rande's works, which are being made with extreme pressure on the staff that works in the works: with endless hours, working at nighttime and in extreme conditions, which is leading in addition to serious accidents, and that's only for the lucrative interest of the dealership, who wants to apply at all costs the upwards of the fees from January 1st. What we say is that the works are not received in these conditions and that that is not applied on January 1st. Above all that does not apply the climb until they are corrected and while not minimizing all the negative impacts that has the extension of the Rande bridge in its surroundings, especially in the Town Hall of Roundabout and in the parish of Trasmanó, and especially in the parish of Chapel, which is a true martyr parish for the brutal impact that different infrastructures have had over time and are having in these days in this parish. The logical thing would be, if things were done well, with planning, that in most of that parish the highway passed underground and did not cause the absolutely brutal impact it is causing. And as we want these impacts to be corrected and that the reception of the works to which these improvements are made is conditional, what we propose here is a plan, which we call Plan Chapela, which we have presented eight months ago in this Parliament and which was rejected by the People's Party. He was rejected by the People's Party, Mr Pazos. You voted against it, don't tell lies because the neighbors are here, they're listening to it, and they've already made things clear when they went to the parish of Chapel and told you what had happened in this Parliament. You lie a lot, but when people come here and listen to them, they know what they vote for. And now they come with a GNP that will present us tomorrow, because they have a bad conscience and because they were unable to resolve in the follow-up commission that the Roundup Council has all these demands. And we also propose to them many more than they are things of justice. [[Applause]] We want to correct the outcome that caused the highway in the parish of Chapel, and we have an opportunity to improve the quality of life, to correct these impacts. We propose that the works and the transfer of the school should be accelerated, which should not be diluted until 2020 or 2021, which is the path that you are taking with the procedures you are doing. This is also a child's school in the fields of Cidadelle. We ask that the visual impact of the highway be corrected; and the neighbourhood has presented concrete initiatives applying the guide that the Union itself has for the correction of these impacts. We call for the urbanization of waste public spaces, especially the creation of a public square around the parish church, which is a space that allows for important improvements. We asked for the recovery of rivers, streams and the heritage that was affected by these works. We ask for one very important thing, the urbanization of national 552, which is another road that crosses the parish and also has a very negative impact on the quality of life. It's also time to act on this infrastructure. We call for the pavement of roads and the opening of new routes. And we finally ask for other measures which are also beneficial to these parishes — for the parish of Teis and for the whole environment — how they are already activated — and that works are not received until this is done — acoustic protection measures in the parishes of Chapela and Teis and that they are done in the first half of 2018. Cannot dilate anymore because there is a noise map drawn in 2012 and nothing has been done. We also call for the urban transformation of AP-9 access to Vigo and for a mobility study and both input and output connections to analyze the impacts that this change would have. And we have finally asked for the abolition of the price between Roundola and Vigo, which is of justice, and would also allow us to get out of Chapel and Teis a lot of traffic by step — heavy traffic — that has that negative impact on the quality of life of neighbouring. Finally, we call for this House's support for the appeal brought before the Constitutional Court in favour of the interests of this Parliament and the interests and collective dignity of the people of Greece. So they have to decide, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which side they are on. If they're on the Audasa side, or if they're on the side of Galicia's interests. If they're on the side of the robbery, the police and the looting, or they're on the side of justice. If you're on the side of the abuse of Audasa and of Development, or if you're on the side...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u127	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u128	...of the neighborhood, and especially of the most affected neighborhood, which is the neighborhood of Chapel and Teis. You have the floor and the opportunity to vote here in favour of all these measures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u129	Thank you, Mr Bará. It's 2:05 minutes over the forecast! That's gonna drag the other groups out now too 2:05... okay! It's not much. [[Murmurs.]] Let's go. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Mr. Bará Torres utters words that are not perceived.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u130	Good night, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bará. First greet the neighbors of Chapel who accompany us at this late hour. Indeed, the parish of Chapel in the Town Hall of Roundola, and the parish of Teis in the Town Hall of Vigo, are two parishes geographically I don't know if to say martyrs, but of course they are greatly affected by the communication routes from the northern entrance to the city of Vigo: a road of state competition, an autonomous road, the AP-9. I also want to claim here a project change on the high-speed train that Mr. Alvarez Helmets at the time, when "Spain was going well," he drew on a map cutting by half the two parishes, and that he was a minister of Socialist Development, Mr. Blanco, who turned him into an eight-kilometre tunnel that avoided a new clipping into these two parishes. And those who see exactly what happens in Arcade realize what it means to pass the high-speed line through an urban helmet. I think it's pretty easy to see you there. The Socialist Group will request a vote by point, separating point 1 and point 9. We tabled a series of amendments. In relation to point 1, the fundamental reason is that we are talking about a right that we consider to be individual, of each Member. It is true that the situation of AP-9 and the demand for transfer is either the inability or unwillingness of the Galician People's Party in Madrid to defend the political positions of this Parliament. And we regret that because we believe that this transfer would actually be good for the country, but we also know that the fundamental issue is the subject of the fares of the highway, and, of course, in the case of tariffs, the gratuitousness in the connection with Roundabout, which, once it has also been achieved in a socialist government the gratuitousness with Morrazo, has all the sense of functional mobility of what would be the articulation of the Vigo metropolitan area, that area that the People's Party has in the courts and which is therefore paralyzed. Point 9 has a question about the urban stretch in AP-9. We understand that the fundamental objective, in addition to the connectivity of the churches of Teis and Chapel, is to remove the urban traffic from these two parishes. And of course we understand that this happens more effectively if these works are done from the knot of Bos Aires, because in fact from Torres de Padín, beyond the technical difficulties in the entourage itself, what we would have had would be that the heavy traffic that returns to the area of port influence would have to return on the road N-552 again to Vigo, with which, indeed, we ended it on one side, but in some way we would have had to get from Torres de Padin heavy traffic to the port area on some road that did not assume — about 850 heavy vehicles a day — important traffic problems. In relation to the conditions of AP-9, indeed, the paradigmatic example — but not the only one — is the Church school, which actually fell literally on the highway. Now we've seen an intended express construction, but the truth is we've been hearing about the expansion of a third AP-9 lane in the parish of Chapel for many years. I mean, the reasonable thing would be for that constructive project and that school to be built with enough sloppy as if at no time the children would have caught up with their classrooms a highway that has 52,000 vehicles on the day of traffic. We also request, within the amendments that we present, in addition to this urban stretch connection from the streets of Bos Aires, everything that has to do with the Vilaboa-Teis plot, and ultimately assume the costs of the investments made by the Government of Spain. And of course, it's not the users who do it. We also call for the downside of the AP-9's affection line in the parish of Chapel and Teis to be carried out at least legally possible. We understand that this is an element that makes urban planning very difficult, and life in a situation of a lot of housing. And we also ask the Galician Council to return the current grounds of the Church School to the Town Hall. And then there's a question that has to do with the very effect of that traffic, these over 50,000 vehicles a day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u132	I'm sure almost all of us ever enter Madrid by A-6. We all cross the municipality of Pozuelo de Alarcón, the municipality with the highest per capita income in Spain and where noise-free panels are constant throughout the miles and kilometers of entry into Madrid. A-6 is not housed on any kind of horizontal property, there are no flat buildings, there are single-family homes. I insist, seeing the average income of the municipality, I believe that, at last, passes to a certain distance — as we say in some way — from the limit of the farm. I always wondered what was the reason -- that I also entered Vigo by Chapela and by Teis -- that the neighbors of Pozuelo, where it seems that the house is far away, had all those noiseproof panels for miles, and that the neighbors of Teis and Chapela, who have the houses -- in any case there is one specifically...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u133	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u134	...—Finished, Mr President—...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u135	Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u136	He told me 2:05 and I'm taking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u137	No, no, but I said that because of what happened Mr Bará. You've already passed 1, so you're done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u138	That's why. That's why.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u139	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u140	So I'd also like a reflection...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u141	Finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u142	...collective of all this Parliament—and of course governments—about whether the neighbours of Pozuelo de Alarcon actually have a higher hearing sensitivity or have something to do with privileged connections with power. Because the truth — I insist — is that they are miles of acoustic barriers that in the case of entry into Vigo, crossing the Town Hall of Roundabout and Vigo, there are practically no — except meters —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u144	...not one of them. So I think we should think a lot about the role we play in political terms in meeting the needs of citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u145	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u146	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. A special greeting to the representatives of the Association of Neighbors and Neighbors of Chapel that today accompany us in this debate. From our group we are going to support the motion brought by the Galego Nationalist Block, which seeks to reverse the unfair situation in which we find ourselves with AP-9, and also in the concrete question of its passage through Chapel and Teis. Of course, I'm not going to get into all the proposals, but I'm going to comment on some. We understand that it is essential to use all available resources to try to lift the veto of shame. And from our group we are also dealing with an appeal before the Constitutional, because in the paralysis of the Government of Unity we will try to do everything possible to change this situation, this attack on the separation of powers, this way of trampling on the low democracy and the low quality that we have. The People's Party in the Central Government, when there's a measure that you think can be approved in the Legislative which you don't like, because you see it at the Bureau, which is totally anti-democratic, of course. We saw this weekend both Mr Feijóo representing the Government, and Mr Puy representing the Group of the People's Party, as they pointed out — far from being belligerent with Fómento, with this situation of the Central Government — to make boys of the Ministry of Development's errands and came out to defend all these injustices that are causing the Central Government, showing that they are completely complicit and that you are here doing the paripe voting this and then fraternal at the Government of the State, because they still do it as speakers and defend it here. We need to paralyze the 3.8 and renegotiate the agreements. Audasa's benefits are absolutely scandalous; we're talking about 46 million euros net every year. We have a lot of margins — it's a matter of public interest — and a lot of margins, to lower the tariffs to the Greeks and to the Greeks, having a self-street toll, which is not what we would like, fundamental to Galicia's social and economic development. So we understand that the Government of the Union, in defence of the interests of the citizenry, should do everything possible to paralyze this climb because the profit margin gives more than anything else. We understand that it is essential to increase the staff framework, to improve investments and maintenance and to implement the responsibilities protocols against jams. The spokesman already said that AP-9 is the state-wide highway with more claims. This also says a lot about what kind of concession and privatization makes the People's Party, which makes a concession at a friend's price without any kind of consideration, without any need, which causes a company that is making 46 million euros net every year can be firing personnel and destroying jobs in Galicia. We wonder what kind of concessions and privatisations does the People's Party and which takes the People's Party in return, of course. We also consider it important to conduct a global audit of the poor quality of the service, which should already be done, given the fires. We're also talking about the highway with the greatest sinisterness of the entire state, in addition to the fewer jobs and more complaints it has. An audit should therefore be performed. And I'm not going to ask which side is the People's Party, if on the side of Audasa or on the side of the Greeks and the Greeks, I know that the People's Party is on the side of Audasa. Obviously, all the data, and what they've been doing since the privatisation of Aznar, they're indicating it. There's no doubt about the conviviality and the counter-predictions you'll have in return. And also the privilege of the 95 percent franchisor dictatorship of the IBI discount is something that needs to be done because it's also going to prejudice the Greeks and the Greeks who live in the municipalities by what happens to AP-9, who are losing income to improve their living situation. There is a movement on the part of various Councils of the Coruña through which it passes to AP-9, and we will present an initiative that we will surely defend in January so that the Council of Galicia will support its claims and actions to all these municipalities, because we understand that it is a totally fair claim and we assume that you too. Let's remember: Audasa earns 46 million euros a year, he doesn't need any privileges or tax discounts that are more harmful to the Greeks and the Greeks. We talked very briefly about the Plan Chapla-Trasmannó. It's a subject we've talked about more than once. Tomorrow the People's Party will, of course, bring an initiative to wash their faces, because all these initiatives will come out. Logically, these are issues that must be addressed, and as they are always voting against, they have to put forward an initiative to say that you too, once these issues are made, are in favour. The theme of the humanization of N-552 and AP-9 is fundamental, and to study the possibility of their burial. And since they've already approved it in plenary and round it up, it's probably the best option to fight noise. On the exit of the Towers of Padin...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u148	...it would also have to study an entrance, and not just an exit. In all these services, we're talking about a 800-meter stretch where most of the services in the village are concentrated, and that's the area to be solved. So we're talking about AP-9 being the state's most sinister highway, which is less employment per kilometre, the most claims it has, is the longest in life — for seventy-five years — and earns 46 million euros a year. Obviously, you're not going to stand on the side of the Greeks and the Greeks, because you're already on the side of Audasa. Both justice and state security bodies are already telling us how the People's Party is financed through concessions, and it is clear that they have a situation of conviviality here, in which they have interests to continue with this situation. You are on the side of Audasa, not on the side of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u149	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u150	Thank you, President. Good night, gentlemen. Once again, and after listening to them, I think they again show a lot of irresponsibility in many of their approaches. And, as always, we're facing a motion full of demagogy, a lot of demagogy. Look, first of all, I think we have to remember again — because it seems no — that we are in the face of a self-sustainment highway, which also has signed and there are already signed contracts that have to be complied with, contracts that recognize the fees, which, unfortunately, are legally justified. But, of course, you're now surprised that we have to fulfill signed contracts that you signed when you ruled... yes, or governments that supported and here praised. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But then they shut up. Not only were they silent but we even remembered the words of their mayors praising these agreements. Of course, then he would praise and talk about the expansion of the works without the reduction of the fees. And it was as public as they were going to pay, but it wasn't spoken of because then they were ruling, or they were supporting the government, you, and you had to shut up. Look, we don't like beaches, but we don't do demagogy with them. Neither do the climbs, but there are contracts signed by the Zapatero government that must be fulfilled; yes, Mr. Losada, of the Zapatero government. As we were reminded yesterday, Mr Losada, the President of Itinere — by the way, I think a former Secretary of Socialist State — is a former Secretary of State. Chances, but they're the ones that happen. [[Murmurs.]] But, of course, now listen to those of the BNG, who have been against the highway for 40 years, those of the "swimming", who want to now be the defenders and the tops of the highway, because I honestly think it's going a bit. [[Applause]] But, of course, this is the same coherence that BNG has, between ruling or not governing, on the subject of transfer. When they ruled they voted against the transfer, and now, they don't rule, to mount noise and bring this issue in. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We will always be in the same position, which is the defense of this transfer. But, look, Mr. Bará, those who have a bad conscience are you, because, when you had responsibilities of government, far from fighting for Galician infrastructures, they shut up and signed very bad agreements for Galicia and very interesting for Audasa, as it was what the Bipartite signed, of what you think was part of, I think he was the general director. And we've already paid 60 million euros from those beaches of Barcala and Rande, 60 million euros; they didn't even put cars on top of the deal. Those are the terms of a friend signed by the Bipartite. But, look, fortunately, this government, the one now, the one from Feijóo, has just reached an agreement to save those 7 million euros annually to the Greeks, who we paid all the Greeks, those we had cars and those that we didn't, and that's going to be a saving of nearly 400 million euros until it's over. I'm not tired of saying that. By the way, the difference, when ruling the People's Party, is 210 kilometers of highways and high-capacity roads made at the time of the greatest crisis, and free of charge. This is the difference. And that's why you guys have a bad conscience now. [[Applause]] But let's remember, because we have to remember things a little bit. Because, of course — yes, Mr Losada, I am not surprised that you do not want to listen to it — in 2011 what we have to pay tomorrow is a socialist minister, with the applause of the mayor of Vigo. Yes, sir, sir. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, besides, look!, 1% for twenty years. And they want to compare it with a point thing for another fee. But, look, look if you have a bad conscience, gentlemen of the BNG, and let's keep remembering how the fees were when they were ruling and how they went up. And they were quiet. I'll give you the next year's data, which will be negotiated the previous year. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In 2007, 3.73 % increase; in 2008, 2.23%; and in 2009 — negotiated in 2008 — 4,49%. That means that in the years of the Bipartite, 14.19% went up. What were you guys doing? Shut up, vote against the transfer and pay 7 million euros for a state fee, that's what they did. [[Applause]] Look, we certainly complained, but the agreements are earlier, of course we complain! This year, 3.8%, and we complained, although we also have to say that last year, in 2017, they were frozen. And if we make this climb in these two years, it's 1.9%, much less than any of the years in which you ruled. But, look, it's just that, besides, to say and to keep remembering things -- don't bother them so much that we remember, wait a minute, and look if you have a bad conscience -- now ask him to pay for it. Do you know how different it is from what you can invest in infrastructures Development than 2010, when the Socialist Party was ruling with the support of BNG? Yeah, look, we now have 7,540 million euros. In 2010, when Mr. Blanco, His Excellency Mr. José Blanco López, said he had no money, it was 21 billion, three times more! Those are the big speeches... [[Protests.]] Look, in any case, all you're doing, gentlemen of the BNG, is that what you're asking is reasonable if you're already doing it. That's why we call for the removal of the toll in certain truces, such as the Redundala-Vigo. But—see if they have a bad conscience—don't worry the neighbors of Chapel. Tomorrow comes a non-law proposition where we're going to have a chance to talk about all these things. Of course, they talk about sound barriers, when the People's Party brought to this Parliament a non-law proposal and it was the promoter for them to set themselves up, and it has already compromised the Ministry of Development that will put them — by setting an example of the many we will talk about tomorrow. Don't worry the neighbors of Chapel, who know perfectly well that what defends the interests of Chapel and Roundup is the People's Party from here and there. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't get nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u151	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u152	I'm done, Mr. President. Just as the Socialist Party did, Mr Bará, in relation to point 5 of his motion, we would be willing to support the request to reduce the bonus of the IBI that has the AP-9, but, look!, as long as it does not mean an increase in the fees for users. No, no, it's not that direct. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's be clear. We would be willing, and also, as the Socialist Party has done, to vote points for this point 5. In any case, we must continue to compromise that the People's Party and the Government that supports it will continue to defend the interests of the Greeks, will continue to demand that the Audasa and the Ministry of Development whatever is good for the Greeks. And there we will be. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u153	Thank you. For the motion's own group, Mr. Bará. This bill is in my hands, but I have to... [[Laughter]] We have guests.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u154	Christmas spirit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u155	We have guests, we have guests, and that's why. Next time, we'll be back. And now it's over in time, please. Next time, if not, it's impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u156	Mr. Fernández Prado, I remind you that the 2011 and 2013 conventions were signed by the governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, and Mrs. Pastor ratified and expanded the terms of the 2011 convention, put the first stone and assumed enlargement. [[Applause]] And the agreements can be renegotiated, they can change, especially in view of the multi-millionaire benefits, as I said, of the concessionaire and more of the state. You can change. And look, I'm going to apologize, because I have to admit that we're wrong about the boating, really. Tell the neighborhood of the Chapel whether it's a razor or a real undo what they did there. Calling that handkerchief is to be very condescending. [[Applause]] It's an absolute outrage what they did in that parish. And we're also wrong about the knife, you know why? Because it wasn't a knife, it was a scam and an armed robbery. That's what AP-9 did. [[Applause]] The knife was short, and that's why we have to apologize. Well, you come to tell us here again that trick from the dawn that you're going to save 400 million. You lie, you don't repeat that lie, because the Board of Auditors itself speaks of 186 million. And we also know, because it's in the State's Official Gazette, that that savings is the result of a new calculation of compensation, that less will be spent on the payment of that agreement and that it will be fully assumed by the Ministry of Development because it is less than the amount approved by the ministry itself to make that compensation. So they don't presume on that savings, because it's for the new calculation. And I'm telling you more: this new agreement published in the newsletter talks about unfair enrichment of the dealership throughout the vigil. What are you going to do to avoid that unrighteous enrichment? Were you going to ask for that compensation? It would be useful not to apply, for example, tariff rises. You are playing a pathetic role here, you are voting against these measures which are in defence of this Parliament, in defense of the dignity of this country, in defense of the people of Greece, and to avoid the abuses of the concessionaire in service and at the fees.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u157	About the amendments...? He's got a lot of requests, because he's got one per point. What's going to happen?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u158	I have a lot of requests, but I still have a little time left. We therefore call on them to be strong in defending the interests of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u159	To amends, to amends, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u160	We are going to accept the vote by points, and we are going to accept Amendment No 10a, Amendment No 10b and — how do we say that in Latin? - the last one, too, 10 acres. [[Laughter]] Which are amendments that, in any case, are beneficial for that "plan Chapel" that we proposed here. We regret that the People's Party does not support these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u161	Thank you, thank you very much. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the right to a decent housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u162	There's an amendment from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u163	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to formulate the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u164	Good afternoon again. The right to a decent housing that Paul and Magdalena see far away!, threatened by a defeat by Abanca, that bank that rescued itself with 9,000 million euros and gave itself to a Venezuelan businessman. How far you see the right to a decent 21-year-old housing Paula, from Vigo!, currently threatened with a defection for not being able to pay a rent. It perceives a risk of just over 300 euros. They don't renew his rental. How far does that 53-year-old Anne see, with the Risga too, and that she cannot pay that rent; as seen by Elisabeth, Sandra, of the Coruña; Mary, of Ourense; Aurelia, of the Coruña, etc. Almost all of them are women's names, they're cases where almost all of us have been in support concentrations to try to avoid these defeats. It's not a statistic, but it's very representative of what happens in this country with the right to housing. The main collective affected are women, because, of course, women also affect women more work insecurity and poverty. Bread, work and ceiling are basic foundations for guaranteeing a decent life for citizens and citizens. These should be the priorities of every democratic and decent government. They're not in many cases, and it's not the case of the Galician Union. The Union does not prioritize the arrival of bread, work and roof to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Their policies support an unregulated market that increases inequalities, sacrifices people to the benefit of the performance accounts of the market-lords —pan —. Despite the supposed improvement in their news media, poverty is rising, and families are still growing asking for Risk. From 2015 to 2016 there is an increase of 10.7%, 10,700 gales perceptions of Risga, a pesimo balance in the bread chapter. At work, massive unemployment and increasing precariousness. There are approximately 300,000 workers, about 30%, who receive less than the minimum inter-professional wage; 672,000 people have incomes less than 9,000 euros per year — these are not only labor, but pensions and other benefits — 672,000 people receiving less than 650 euros per fourteen euros or less than 730 euros in twelve pay. Half the under 35 don't have a job and the other half works in precarious, a bad balance in the work chapter as well. On the roof, the dwelling as well as speculative. Your creed makes the house a by-product of the real estate business of banks. Today's housing isn't a right, it's been a long time since they've taken that article from the Constitution, from which they're so devoted servants. The housing remains to be conceived by you — both the Galician Union and the Government of the State — as an investment asset and not as a right. The basic guideline of these policies is not to disturb banks, not to disturb real estate speculators and systematically disregard the right of access to a home of their own and worthy of thousands of Greeks and Greeks. That's why they systematically refused to create, with the homes that were bought to the banks, the housing of Sareb, a public rental park at social prices, not to incorporate a housing park at an affordable price that would condition the market at the lower rent prices. Banks and large housing owners didn't care. They also modified the Law of urban leases by reducing the rental period from five to three years to force upgrades and price contracts to raise. They are opposed to regulating the concept of empty housing, indispensable step, already contained in the law regulating local farms, so that the municipalities that wish to do so may charge the IBI with empty housing, and that is what is in the law. For financial institutions, having an empty floor remains as cheap as before the crisis. For us, talking about the right to a housing goes by increasing the public housing park and having a proper dimension. The Galego Institute of Housing and Solo currently has approximately 3,500 homes over a total of 1,600,000 homes in Galicia — 1,200,000 habitual homes. It's at all insufficient lights. Even more so, we take into account the lack of management and the lack of flexibility in its management. There are people waiting for seven or nine years for adjudication and there are many resignations. And the directive is given to prioritize the sale on the lease. Most of the boys and girls, unlike ten years ago, can't access a mortgage. They access the house through the rental. In 2008 it was 41% of young people who chose to rent; in 2016, 71%. That might not be bad if there was a public and private rental market that would provide stability for contracts and regulate affordable maximum prices. In a context where the demand for rentals increases, especially in urban areas, as there are no regulatory mechanisms, the increase in demand is to increase prices very quickly. In 2016 they grew by 6%. Therefore, their housing policies liquidate all the right to a worthy roof, make Galicia a speculative paradise, in which houses are abundant without people and people without homes. Defeats and denial of the right to access to the home of thousands of people are structural, due to their refusal to modify the speculative pattern of housing policies. In the roof chapter, their policies are equally negative, neither bread nor work nor roof, they only guarantee favors to banks and real estate speculators. That's why we ask once again for the correction of your policies, a radical correction. That is why we urge Junta to substantially increase the public housing park in rent with a coordinated public intervention to generate enough housing for public promotion in rental, including the rehabilitation of IGVS housing found in poor condition, and the development of possibilities to incorporate into the public heritage buildings and buildings already built of private ownership. We also ask that the public promotion housing adjudication system be modified and that it be more agile and fairer, adjusting it to objective criteria of necessity and modifying with those objectives decrees 253/2007 and 1/2010. We also want the Government of the State to be asked to transfer the housing owned by Sareb, which is necessary in areas where it is necessary to meet housing needs, to increase that public rental park. We also ask for the increase in budgets and the increase in the execution of those budgets. We also ask the Spanish Government to once and for all regulate the concept of empty housing so as to be able to charge large housing owners in the IBI, so as to fulfil the housing that social function, and also demand the Spanish Government another law of urban leases which improves the stability of contracts, limits the increase in prices between contract and contract, limits bail and some other measure. I mean, if there's precariousness, if there's unemployment, if there's people who have incomes as low as what I said before and on the other hand there's no policy that regulates housing prices, the result will always be, always, what we're seeing. People don't have the right to a decent housing, they follow the evictions, they follow the evictions of the most disadvantaged groups, with devastating effects that go far beyond statistics. I always say to imagine any of us, in our circumstances, that we were expelled from our home, with children, with daughters, with the family. It's a very difficult trauma to overcome for anyone. But a trauma that's going on every day, and it's going on every day when there's thousands of empty homes in this country parallel and thousands of empty homes from the financial institutions rescued with public money in this country. If this happens, because if you want it to happen, if this happens, it's because you opt for other interests that are not those of these people, and that you have to know. We believe that this initiative must be approved for dignity. The Galician Union must meet the commitment to bring bread, work and roof to all the Greeks and Greeks. I'm the Galician Union. I'm not the board of bank shareholders. This, to throw people out of the street, is to exercise institutional violence against the most disadvantaged people, a violence exercised in recent years, from before the start of the crisis. And this has to end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u165	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u166	This matter brings us face to face with one of the most obvious and most devastating consequences of the so-called crisis, which is the policeman, to which a large part of the population, of incomes, of rights and in particular of their homes, of their dwellings, has been subjected. The data speak of more than 400,000 people, families, deprived of their homes, who were mostly people belonging to the popular classes, to the working classes of this country, who were defrauded as a result of this crisis. Because their homes, in addition, became the property of the bank, which was the principal responsible for this crisis and that cop and also the main beneficiary would be staying with the defeated houses and also with the multi-millionaire public aid of more than 40 billion euros that they did not have to return, or of the more than 32,000 euros that charge the banks of the state accounts annually for the interest of the debt. I mean, it's absolutely shocking what happened on this subject, and it explains very well what the causes and consequences of the so-called crisis were. So we have that the bank has become the main real estate of the state, and it is using, in addition, those housing to make speculation and seek the maximum profit, when this should be an opportunity for public sector intervention in the housing market by taking advantage of all those housing that is in the hands of the bank and that the bank would benefit from those multimillionaire aid. What is clear is that there can be no public housing policies without State intervention, without public sector intervention, without intervention, in this case, the Government and the Council of Galicia, without ultimately changing the legal framework. But, of course, there are no public policies, genuine public housing policies, because that means going against the interests of the bank, which is the main real estate in the Spanish state. And the bank, as we know, is untouchable for the People's Party, because we already know what interests the People's Party obeys. So, as there is no real policy, public housing policy, what there are are partial, limited measures, many of them of a cosmetic nature, palliative care, which in many cases are far-sighted, bureaucratic, slow, desperate and not going to the root of the problem, which has to do with a new economic model, or with the current economic model, labour, income, wealth distribution, social exclusion, precariousness. Because you really have managed to make the ideal of new people's lives right now be opting for a precarious job, and that's a real drama. And at the same time, we saw how in these years public investments in protected housing supply were drastically reduced, which dropped from 52 million euros in 2009 to 4 million in 2016. We have seen, over this time, the inability they had to mobilize the empty dwellings, with the failure of that empty housing plan which was a real bluff and which, above all, used to oppose the municipalities, but which is becoming inoperative, inoperative. We have 300,000 empty homes, with data from 2011, in Galicia, of which 90,000 are in the cities. And they also failed rehabilitation policies, as we have already reported here in the rehabilitation debates and how we can also verify. The spokesperson for the People's Party knows perfectly what has happened in these years, what is happening with the area of Tinería in Lugo, what has happened — we are talking about it here — in the case of Betanzos. We're not going to talk about the alternative models that defend BNG, but we could talk a lot about it. And above all, above all, that they don't have a real public housing policy, what they do is they break their own plans. They don't comply with the 2015-2020 Home Plan, first of all, because they are incapable, absolutely incapable, completely incompetent, to execute the budget itself. And we'll talk to you again about the rehabilitation and housing quality promotion game that you had in the year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u167	It's over. You'll have 26 seconds left. We have to go and warn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u168	...15.8% in 2016, 7.3% in 2014, 1.3% in 2013, 12.2% in 2012. How many millions have been left without running in a program that is fundamental? BNG, of course, wants a change of direction in housing policy and that's why it's going to approve this initiative. We have also made amendments to improve it as much as possible, with positive incentives, in addition to negative ones...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u169	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u170	...because we believe that there must also be negatives for the empty housing—and creating a Greek housing observatory. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u171	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u172	Thank you, President. Good night, everyone. The truth is that this motion that is presented today contains a whole statement of intent as regards the policy of access to housing. And we can disagree in some nuances, but generally we're going to support it as it speaks of improving the living conditions of people and social justice. Last year, at the architecture congress held in Barcelona City, the motto of it said: "The housing, a right as a house." It's graphically very close, since it makes manifest how housing is a right that cannot be considered a minor matter. And the Socialist Parliamentary Group is clear that we must continue to work to conquer it. A few days ago, a socialist initiative on the drive of cohousing was approved in this Parliament. And from this spokesperson, I was made to pretend how vital it is for our seniors to decide how and with whom they want to live their old age, as well as to avoid feeling the dreaded unwelcome loneliness, a question understood by all the groups, who have driven it unanimously. That's why he drew attention that for years it was the banks that had decided where and how many Greeks and Greeks would live, and that the reaction was much less unanimous in this regard. They and they do feel and feel that loneliness and vulnerability, so the theme of the evictions has to be priority and housing policies have to meet various fronts, because also the realities of the Greeks and the Greeks are different. This is not a game of Playmobil with standard clips to which the wig changes, this is a real world of diversity, and for what to offer answers. On these Christmas dates there's a well-known announcement that I'm sure it's in the mind of all of you, and that says, "Go home, come back." Since 2007 it has been close to 500,000 refugees throughout Spain, 500,000 who will no longer return to their homes at Christmas or ever, a drama. In Galicia, in the accumulation of the first half of the exercise, the defeats rise to 1,416, more than in the same period of last year, and aspire to aggravate that data of nearly 2,000 refugees from their homes per year; 2,000 Greek families who cannot return home for Christmas because this year, as many others have done since 2007, see as what their home was no longer such. But, of course, in everything that's housing policy, data is what they are. They're supposed, they're intuitable, they're estimated, and there's always the Government to reinterpret the figures. Because data transparency, in this sense, has been completely opaque for years. Yesterday the Government announced the launch of the Vivenda Observatory, just nine years later than the approval of the 2008 Housing Law, which had already contemplated in its additional provision the sixth creation. And it was replaced by another in 2012 that removed it from the joint. Frankly curious that today they finally fall into the realization that this tool needs to be counted. Our feeling is that during the years of the crisis, you didn't even want to watch what happened. They put their hands in their eyes and allowed themselves to be led right at the time when families suffered the most consequences of the crisis with the loss of their homes. And so yesterday they announce that the observatory is created. I honestly think these times of virtuality and three-dimensional reality are doing a lot of damage to the Group of the People's Party. Because, how's it going? Things start with the hit of microphones and cameras? Creating an observatory as a useful tool cannot be summed up at a January meeting with industry agents. The Vivenda Observatory will be operational, in our understanding, when it assumes the duty of transparency and facilitates those data that will improve the state reading of Galicia's public and private housing park, as well as many other data. Because this group is clear that a management cannot be improved if you do not know what is missing or, worse, if you know and deliberately do your best by hiding or deleting it. And about why they didn't take the steps for their implementation until now you can have two readings: one, to avoid that control of their management and the other, because it was you who withdrew the observatory as a goal of the Housing Law, something that if contemplated in the previous Law of 2008, as I said, approved during the Bipartisan Government. So today we have to say that without time it wasn't. As time goes on, it's not like what they saw yesterday badly today. On his day Mrs. Rojo criticized the 2008 Housing Act for its interventionary and expropriatory nature. Today you, in the draft of the Rehabilitation Act, propose exactly the same. So the perfect summary of your housing policy is: today I'm going, tomorrow I'm going and I don't know when I don't even know where. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pierres, I have to say that I was confused, because I have it for a serious person and, of course, I have to say that I don't know any house law of the Bipartite. There's the Habitat Decree, the famous Habitat Decree, it's not a law. Don't confuse, don't confuse people, which is the Habitat Decree — disastrous, by the way — it's not a law. The Law of Housing, the only law that has been approved and is in force, is of the year 2012, of which I had the honour to be rapporteur with Mr. Toxo, to which, of course, unites me a friendship and a thanks for his work in that law. [[Murmurs.]] But it was the first house law, let's not confuse. And I say I have it for a serious and strict person. And, man!, Barcelona is precisely a very good place to make an architectural congress, but not to give lessons of need for housing. Because it's precisely in Catalonia that has been leading the wastes of all Spain for many years. And it's also true what you said, and we have to thank you, that you've been missing 500,000 since the year 2007. And it must be said that they're all, because they're not all housing. There are garages to warehouses, rustic farms and all kinds of things. There's no separation or whether you know what habitual housing is or not habitual housing. But in 2007 who ruled both in Junta and in Madrid was the Socialist Party — if it does not wake up — until 2011; 350,000 evictions at the time of the Zapatero government, and curiously they were the ones who drew the express misappropriation, quickly. Remember, the express mishap, that you can remember what it was like. So it's good to remember and I appreciate you giving the data that way, that gives you the opportunity. Mr. Sánchez, look, you can't tolerate -- and you have to say it clearly -- what you just said, because it's a total and absolute falsehood. The fact that the Board is currently prioritising the sale of rental is totally false. About 70% of new or rehabilitated dwellings are rented. And Xunta's public housing park right now is about 3,700; of which, 3,500 are renting, of 3,500 is the rental public housing park. And by the way, you'll tell me, if a few years ago there were 2,800 and now there are 3,700, because there's a 32% increase. Man, something would be done, something would be done! Perhaps more is done in Catalonia and your friends, whom you have visited frequently, have made a better policy. If that's the policy that In Marea proposes to us, just like the municipalities where they rule here, I certainly don't think it's the one that interests Galicia, much less. Because I think we would unfortunately be with many more problems of waste, as is the case in Catalonia or in the Valencian Community, which are the ones leading, along with Andalusia, unfortunately, that ranking which is not desirable to lead. But I also want to tell you something. You started -- of course, it's always -- with names of people. Yes, Paula, 21 years old. Paula, aged 21, has already spoken to Junta. And, of course, if you meet the requirements — of course, if you finish a contract, you'll have to change housing — you'll have a place to live at your disposal. And from Aurelia, whenever you like, we do a monograph, about Aurelia da Coruña, several years ago. You know what happened there, better than me, because they were the ones who tied up with the chains next door. And therefore, Mr. Sánchez, demagogy the right one. Because you came here to talk about clear demagogy, cheap populism, and undoing politics to see what falls. That's not serious, and it shouldn't be serious. But, look, you guys do whatever you want. In the meantime, the board is very clear. And the Government that supports the People's Party, I said, is working hard and hard. As long as there's a family with housing problems, there'll be Junta. Yes, those 12 measures — that you mock them — 12 measures... I have respected since the first minute and tried to listen carefully, Mr. Sánchez, carefully tried to see if something was said that had escaped the demagogy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Hard to find her, hard to find! But look, these 12 measures that Junta has in place and which it has approved have had the good visa... and not only the good visa, but in 2005, the report by the People's Valedora came to say that they were significantly better than in any other community the measures that the Galician Union was putting on to prevent the disasters. And, look, there are more than 1,500 families who have been treated with these measures, either for rental problems or for mortgage issues, avoiding evictions or helping out. There were 6,000 measures that resulted in more than 6,000 families receiving rental aid, or more than 400 lease subsidies — 204 in the year-end.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u175	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u176	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. And all I want to tell you is that the empty housing program, which you disqualified, if the big cities don't want to participate, or if they join but don't want to participate, it's hard to get it started. Therefore, collaboration, Mr. Sánchez, is necessary. Curiously in the big cities, La Coruña, Ferrol or Vigo, where there are more problems of riots, it turns out they don't want to participate or they don't want to help. Today there are 53 municipalities that are already included, and houses of that empty housing program are adjudicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u177	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. For the motion's own group, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u178	Mr. Castilian, let's see when you take this seriously, and when your group and government take it seriously. It's too serious what happens to people who go to the street like to come here using the tactic that others make it worse and never give a serious argument. He never gives any serious argument. You spoke of Barcelona. Of course it happens in Barcelona!, of course it happens in Barcelona! And what happens in Barcelona is happening here less intensively in the urban areas of this country. Because I've explained it many times: you make policies that impoverish people -- I've told you that 672,000 people in this country earn less than 9,000 euros gross -- don't do any kind of housing price regulation policy -- on the contrary, they encourage housing prices to rise -- and then what results do people intend to achieve more than they have no right to access to housing? That's not demagogy, it's reality, Mr. Castineira. It's not demagogy to say that you've spent and lost 40,000 million euros to rescue the banks. And they didn't make the houses of the banks available to the people who had to go to the street. You've captured a mortgage legislation that has defrauded millions of people in this country. And it had to come to European justice to put them in place, but for those years many people have been defeated and defrauded by the banks, with abusive clauses that you have allowed — and the justice, of which they so presume, too. So, seriously, they take this real drama seriously, and they take sides with people and not with banks. It's not a demagogy, Mr. Castineira, saying that you're Pharisees when they talk about housing. Where are the mechanisms for regulating the housing market in this country, Mr. Castineira? Never, in the debates we had, told me here where those regulatory mechanisms were. There is no public rental park with a proper dimension and there is no law that regulates rent prices or housing prices. For you it's good news that rises the price of housing and lower wages, but that causes the suffering of many people who have to leave the house. And that's what you're doing, and then you tell me that... how can you, how can you...? [[Murmurs.]] Are you kidding people, people who have no right to a house, Mr. Castineira? She's joking when she says and pretends that the rental public park went up from 2,800 to 3,700 — I said. And of course, then it manipulates and says that's a large percentage of increase. Yes, of course, a big percentage because we left where we left. But 3,700 homes is a ridiculous public park rental housing, it's a ridiculous thing that doesn't serve the goals that they claim. So don't come here to manipulate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u179	About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u180	On the amendment, you have ruled in this country most of the years of this democracy, and you have been ruling for nine years. And over those nine years more than five people a day have been defeated in this country because you have allowed it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u181	About the amendment to the Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u182	We accept the amendment to the Block, Mr. President. And I'd like you to be as flexible as Mr. Fernández Prado. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u183	Thank you, but you don't want to be compensated in time. No, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm not... No, I don't. In time, it was flexible here today, we had guests... in the past. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I've already said that now we had to adjust a little in time. Every thing is not your place, eh!, every thing is your place. Let's vote. [[Mrs. Pierres López asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Pierres, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u184	To correct an inaccuracy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u185	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u186	Act 18/2008 of 29 December 2008 on housing in Galicia — DOG of Tuesday, 20 January 2009 — Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u187	Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, but that's inaccurate. I checked with the lawyers and they told me that, in fact, that law was passed on December 29. [[Mr. Castineira Broz utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Then we'll vote. Close the doors, please. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u188	We begin by voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms. Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of labour in the Administration of Justice. A transaction between points 4 and 5 was pending. Is there that transaction? [[Mrs. Vilan Lorenzo: Yes.]] If you don't read it, please, all of you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u189	"The Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to address the claims of the trade unions representing the judicial staff of Galicia, opening a period of permanent dialogue in the following terms: 1. Improving the salaries of employees of the Administration of Justice with the average of the rest of autonomous communities, especially in the transitional autonomic complement. 2. Strengthening the squares that respond to structural needs, especially those of over three years. 3. Restoring the squares that have been amortized in those alleged areas of special concern. 4. Negotiating an agreement aimed at eliminating discrimination in the judicial field with other bodies of officials or authorities in the treatment of situations of temporary disability. 5. By abolishing 100 per cent of the remuneration in cases of substitutions of a superior body, requesting the Government of the State to reform State legislation by applying the principle of non-discrimination and equal treatment collected in the European Union Court of Justice judgment of 14 September 2016."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. We therefore vote for this transaction. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of labour in the Administration of Justice. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. The compromise text of this motion is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u191	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. Jose Luís Bará. I propose three votes. The first would be points 1 and 9, which the Socialist Parliamentary Group requested separately. Then a second vote, with point 5 — by the Group of the People's Party — took place. And finally, we would vote on what the motion is, incorporating the proposals. We shall then begin by voting points 1 and 9 of the motion, as requested by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote for points 1 and 9 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to AP-9. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 39; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u192	We now vote point 5 of the motion. We vote. Vote of point 5 of the transactioned text of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to AP-9. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. Point 5 of the compromise text of this motion is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u193	And now, finally, we would vote on the remaining points of the motion, which incorporate the points of amendments; in particular, the 10 bis, the 10 ter) and the 10 quater) of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. on the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to AP-9, with points 10 bis, 10 ter) and 10 quater) incorporated, except the points already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected from the text of this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u194	And we now vote on the motion from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Sánchez, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the right to a decent housing. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the central government in connection with the right to a decent housing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. The text of this motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-12-19-DSPG054.u195	We suspended the full till tomorrow at ten o'clock. Good night.
