ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u1	Good morning, again. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. They justified the inattentiveness of this full Don Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez and David Rodríguez. We're on the agenda. Promise or oath to abide and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia by a number of Members and Members
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u2	By complying with Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure, I am requesting the promise or oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Self-Government of the New and the New Members in place of those who have caused casualties. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer: "Yes, I swear" or "Yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. The Bureau's secretary will then call on the honourable Members and the honourable Members to answer the question that this Presidency will put to you, namely: ladies and gentlemen, do you swear or promise to abide by and maintain integrity to the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia? Madam Secretary, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u3	Thank you, President. Don Jacobo Moreira Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u4	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u5	Mrs. María Isabel New Flour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u6	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u7	Don Moisés Rodríguez Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u8	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u9	Mrs. María Soraya Salorio Porral.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u10	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u11	Don Gonzalo Trenor López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u12	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u13	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Once the promise or oath is given, they acquire the full status of Members and Members, and we welcome them to this House. Let's start with the single point. Debate and vote on the Opinion of the Committee on Budgets, 3rd, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u14	The amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Galician Nationalist Bloc, the Socialists of Galicia and En Marea are kept to the full, which will be detailed later and which are documents 4264, 4244 and 4230 respectively. The President of Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, Mr Abel Losada Álvarez, has the floor for the presentation of the Committee's dictum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bill has entered Parliament's Register on December 3, 2016. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on December 3, 2016, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of Parliament. The amendments to the whole were qualified on 30 December 2016. The parliamentary groups of En Marea, the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block made amendments to the overall return of general budgets and of the sections' budgets, as well as non-devolutional amendments that transferred credits between applications of different sections or altered the total content of income and expenditure states. All the amendments were discarded at the plenary session on January 16, 2017. The partial amendments detailed below were qualified on 16 January 2017: the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, amended to articulate, 4; amendments to numerical states, 3; total, 7. The Parliamentary Group of En Marea, amends to articulate, 25; amends to numerical states, 104; total, 129. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, amendments to the articulation, 48; amendments to the numerical states, 603; total, 651. Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, amendments to the articulated, 33; amendments to the numerical states, 301; total, 334. A total of 110 amendments were presented to the articulated, 1,011 amendments to the numerical states, which make a total of 1,121 amendments. At its meeting on January 18, 2017, the Committee on Economics, Farms and Budgets appointed the following speakers: by the People's Group of Galicia, Fr. Pedro Puy Fraga, holder; Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira, alternate. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, don José Manuel Lago Peñas, holder; don Antón Sánchez García, alternate. For the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, Fr. Abel Losada Álvarez, holder; Ms. Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, alternate. By the Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, donna Noa Presas Bergantiños, headline; donna María Montserrat Prado Cores, alternate. The session was held on 19 January 2017 and the report was finalized, which contains the recommendations made to it by the Commission, consisting of the adoption by most of the amendments made by the People's Parliamentary Group. It also recommended the adoption of Amendment No. 29 to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. With regard to the remaining amendments, the Ponencia, for the most part, recommended that the Commission reject the proposals presented to the articulated by the parliamentary groups of En Marea, the Socialists of Galicia and the Nationalist Galego bloc. The amendments to the spending statements submitted by these groups were pending for commission. The Commission, meeting on 26, 27 and 30 January, adopted by a majority the report issued by the Presidency and rejected those submitted to the states of expenditure by the opposition parliamentary groups. The number of amendments kept for the plenary is as follows: by the Parliamentary Group of Tide, amendments to the joint, 25; amendments to the numerical states, 104; a total of 129. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group: amendments to the articulated, 48; amendments to the numerical states, 603; a total of 651 amendments. By the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, amendments to the articulated, 32; amendments to the numerical states, 301; a total of 333 amendments. Therefore, in this plenary, a total of 105 amendments to the articulated and 1,008 amendments to the numerical states, i.e. 1,113 amendments, which remain processing pending in this plenary. The ditam consists of an articulated text and a numerical state consisting of income, expenditure and financial states. The total consolidated budget of the autonomous public sector amounts to EUR 10.801.147.972. The articulated text consists of an explanatory statement, followed by 59 articles, grouped into 6 titles, 17 additional provisions, two transitional provisions, 3 last layouts and 7 attachments. Title I refers to the approval of budgets and the modification of appropriations regime. Title II regulates staff cats. Title III shall be the one referred to in respect of obliging transactions and guarantees. Title IV regulates budgetary management. Title V is dedicated to the financing of local corporations. And Title VI refers to tax rules, which include a single precept in relation to the criteria for the allocation of environmental damage tax and the wind canon, since most of the tax regulation is contained in the draft law on tax, administrative and management measures, which will soon be dealt with in this plenary. Finally, the expiry date of the future law is determined, as well as the date of its entry into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u16	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Expenditure statement set debate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u17	We therefore enter the joint debate on the state of expenditure. Round of parliamentary groups. We started with the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u18	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I wanted to start this debate today by sending all the support and solidarity of the Galician Nationalist Block to thousands of people who during this weekend suffered the serious consequences of the storm, very uniquely to all those people who saw their lives in danger by the cuts of light. We also understand the dramatic situation that thousands of sheep and cattle have lived in our country, with absolutely abusive cuts of light they have made, on many occasions, that they could neither mug nor feed their cows or cool the milk. This, of course, is a real drama, a tragedy for this sector, and we understand that, in view of this situation, what does not fit is the passivity of the Galician Union, which looks elsewhere at abusive cuts by Fenosa. We understand that it is logical that during a temporary period there may be situations of cut-offs of supply, which seems to us to be an abuse, that there may be light cuts for 72 hours or 48 hours, because this is what it means to us that Fenosa has neglected the maintenance of the lines in our country and therefore aggravates the consequences of a time, but also that there was a major lack of foresight, because it is not logical that, knowing that we were going to have a problem with these characteristics, there was not a suitable device to really solve them in a short time. So today we also use here to transfer to the present Government that we believe that there is an important response to time in three areas: firstly, in the field that the Board should enable a line of immediate aid to alleviate not only the damage in the livestock sector, but in the entire economic sector and in the public infrastructure of the municipalities. Secondly, that it would be important for a file to be opened to Fenosa, because it is obvious that it is not paying attention to its obligation to have the line in good condition and that, of course, it had to have foreseen what the consequences of this tempore were and thus guarantee economic compensation to people. And thirdly, we believe that either the President or Vice-President of the Board should attend the ordinary plenary meeting to be held tomorrow. It would be important, firstly, to explain to us their assessment of how a time has been met that has had a very strong impact on our country, what measures they will take, and above all, so that citizens, many of them today are angry and indignant at their homes, see that there is a government and a parliament that really responds to this situation. This appearance depends solely on the will of the Government. We have already said from the BNG that we have absolutely no problem so that we can make a change in the agenda so that really this is a subject that is debated, so that Parliament will respond to the needs that our country currently has and so that we do not act robotically, which are the concerns that are at present. In any case — and already entering the concrete debate on budgets — I would say that today this plenary and all the history of the budgets they had during their debate in the Galician Parliament are a chapter more than one series, which is a series we have already known in this country; it may be the series entitled: Feijóo offers us dialogue in the morning and afternoon applies the Parliamentary Roll. Because I want to draw attention to a fact that has its impact, though, as usual, it does not cease to be shocking, and that the Greek Government does not accept a single amendment that proposes to the opposition. This in practice is to bury dialogue, also to demonstrate a certain pride, because it seems that the only people who make proposals or those who listen to proposals are those of the People's Group; however, those we represent other citizens who are also Greek and we are putting sensible proposals in our amendments are not accepted even one of the amendments. We see that the meaning given by the president of the board to the word dialogue is different from what appears in the dictionary. So, Mr Feijóo, or we have changed the meaning of the word dialogue, or you must be a little more serious and not just come here to deal with all the proposals that we have put forward in this case from the BNG Parliamentary Group, but also from the rest of the opposition, which collect reasonable, logical and many of them even adopted at the level of the councils with the votes of the People's Party. I think this is a little abnormal situation. In any case, the BNG Group has tabled more than 300 amendments to improve budgets and set in motion a genuine agenda for the rights of Galicia and the majority of society. However, the People's Party will vote, not really, starting to end the state of discomfort, by rescuing health, education and social policy. The PP today is going to vote not to put an end to our energy policy through the impulse to a Welsh electric tariff that puts an end to the privileges of the electricians. Today the People's Party will also vote not to create quality jobs. Today the PP will vote not for a new industrial policy that prevents relocation, that supports our dairy sector or that actually bets on by the fishing sector. Today the PP is also going to vote against the fact that we're actually betting on innovation, the modernization of our business fabric, and today the PP is also going to vote against the increase in funds to fight against macho violence, against gender-based violence. It is clear that this is not the best way to demonstrate that when we make agreements in this Parliament in which we say that resources must be increased, then, when we make concrete proposals, the Simple and Plainly People's Party is not even willing to study these proposals and to improve the response that we have to give to the grave situation of gender violence. So, in fact, today we are in the presence of a non-debate, a non-debate of the budgets of the Galician Union in which we really see that the People's Party wants to turn democracy into a bureaucratic process where there is no rationality and, above all, where the opportunity for the Greeks and the Greeks to improve their budgets through their processing in Parliament is stolen. I have to say that I believe this situation has a name, and that that name is authoritarianism. The same authoritarianism that is going to be consolidated on the other side of the Peninsula, in Catalonia, with that political trial celebrated by Artur but... yes, yes, yes, and I want to take advantage of here to send him the support... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u19	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u20	The same dictatorial authoritarianism that today lives with a political trial that is being held in Catalonia. And I take advantage of sending all support and solidarity to former Councillors Irene Rigau, Joana Ortega and former President Artur But, who are actually going to be judged by something that is basic in democracy: to consult the people and comply with the orders of citizens in the polls. [[Applause]] That's what's happening. Today is a disgraceful day for the people we defend democracy, and it is more evidence of the Spanish State's inability to accept, precisely, democracy, popular will and the people's right to decide. We know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that it bothers you with democracy and that clearly what you want is to keep us trapped in a regime that is exhausted everywhere. Finally, the regime is exhausted, just as its ideas, like the ideas of the Government of Greece, which is really a government in stand by mode, which consults mobile phones while we are in debate, and which, as we said, really ignores the amendments to the opposition, but the most serious thing is that this government on stand by ignores the reality of this country and sells us a healthy growth of what they were talking about as well as a mantra in these budgets, but what we really do behind these slogans is try to hide a harsh reality from the social point of view and also try to hide that the fact that austerity had been applied in such a fierce way in our country has caused the crisis to be deeper and that the Galicians and the Greeks are suffering to a greater extent from the consequences of the crisis. And this can be summed up in three headlines that we've seen these days in the newspapers. One: this healthy growth we can see which means that Galicia loses 18,000 inhabitants and goes back to seven years ago, which is the most accused descent since the fall of the population began in 2011. A second headline that makes us manifest what is true healthy growth is the latest data on unemployment: unemployment rises in January 6,164 people in Galicia, almost 3%; it is the fourth community with the greatest increase. The total unemployed is 212,078, but the government is afraid to tell us we're going in the right direction. And a third headline that is very significant has to do with the increase in inequality, and we see how as they beg us to escape the crisis and economic recovery in Galicia, the only people who grow are people who have difficulty reaching the end of the month, who are more than half of the Greeks and the Greeks, and the data of their own NGOs, who are telling us that there are more than 700,000 people at risk of social exclusion in our country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, growth knows what the People's Party is saying, what it leaves us is a Galician with more poverty, with more inequality, of course, which is unable to overcome the demographic problem and which with its policies accentuates that situation. And, in view of these budgets that we can say that they have neither soul nor heart, since the Galego Nationalist Block, what we propose are proposals, that I will try to synthesize in six areas — because it is also very difficult to do so in this time of debate — that they would be priorities for us — there are still possibilities for them to accept any amendment — and that they have to do with the need for a new industrial policy and the defence of a Greek electric tariff; secondly, with the need to strengthen our productive sectors to create jobs; thirdly, the laundering of public services and social rights; fourthly, let's build up on the budgets to the Greek covenant against gender violence, let's not just stay in the words, because good words do not come to solve the problem; fifthly, the bet for sustainable development; and sixthly, let's end with the language that is being carried forward by the Government of Galicia and that there is really a change that is seen in budgets in relation to politics. On the first block, which has to do with industrial policy and the electricity tariff, we understand from the Galego Nationalist Block that, if we don't bet on a shift in industrial policy and on the exploitation of our country's wealth, it's impossible for us to get out of the crisis and generate quality jobs in Galicia. So I want to highlight three amendments within this paragraph. First of all, the need for us in this Parliament to put in place — and that is what happens in the budgets — a strategy to curb relocation, and particularly in the automotive sector. This is a key sector in our country. We're talking about 19,000 direct jobs, we're talking about 31% of the annual exports of Greece and, despite the fact that we have power from the point of view of technical and business capacity, in recent years we've been producing a phenomenon of relocation which is very worrying. In recent years, according to the unions themselves, 2,000 jobs in the automotive sector have been lost in Galicia. Beyond Mine, 6,000 jobs have been created in this field. And the problem that we have is not only that here there are companies that are determined to deploy in Portugal and that don't bet on Galicia, the problem is that there are companies with a Welsh matrix, according to the automotive cluster itself, 27 car component suppliers, who have settled in northern Portugal, who have their matrix in Galicia and are moving not only manufacturing, but also part of the innovation process. And we think it's not worth keeping your arms crossed or improvising in the board of assembly, in the press rounds, plans that then, in fact, do not exist. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a strategy is needed from the point of view of industrial policy and, in particular, in a key sector such as the automotive sector; business support is needed to accompany companies in the search for new demands and in the pursuit of new deployments. There's a need for a quality job bet, for stopping the precaution that's taking place. We have to facilitate access to industrial soil, which is quite difficult if we do not take measures to put in place and reduce access to industrial soil. Administrative processing needs to be facilitated. And it's clearly important that there is a bet for innovation, but not only for innovation teams, but also for the subsequent development of that innovation to take place in Galicia and not for emigration to Portugal, as it is now. We have an amendment in our budgets and it is that it would be important for the country to study and that there really are changes in that sense. The second question that seems relevant to us too has to do with a basic right and that as Greeks and Greeks we should have the right not only to see how our energy is exported, but rather to what the production of electricity really serves for the development of our country. And, of course, here Mr. Feijóo is very concerned that the defence of the Greek electric tariff doesn't like it in Madrid. I believe that Mr. Feijóo should worry about it is how it is possible that the Basques have a lower rate for their businesses and that in Galicia, which exports at least 30% of electricity every year, all we see is the contempt of Fenosa, as we have seen in recent times. We have an amendment to advance in the defence of that electric tariff, which the Government is putting to work and defending the interests of this country, which would also be fundamental from the point of view of taking advantage of the opportunities for Galicia and actually putting energy to the service of the Greeks and the Greeks and not to put the country to the service of the electricians, which seems to be what the People's Party defends. Finally, on the industrial issue, there is another issue that we also consider to be relevant and that has to do with what the future of the Xallas River hydroelectric power plants will be; these plants, which, according to Ferroatlantica, will be sold. However, we are surprised and surprised that the German Government has not answered that with the necessary continuance. Today there are still thousands of families throughout the Costa da Morte region concerned about what's going on; there are hundreds of jobs at stake. We ask that there really be a clear positioning of this Parliament that the mini-centres of the river Xallas will not be sold and that we will not allow Mr. Villar Mir to actually speculate with the future of our country, which speculates with the river Xallas unique and exclusively to cover holes that have created other companies. We would like to see the amendment that we have on this issue adopted and, above all, we would like to see a serious and forceful response from the Galician Union meeting and also to be faithful to the agreements we have in this Parliament in which we say that these power stations cannot be sold. [[Applause]] Of course, we also have other types of proposals related to the productive sectors in our country. In this matter, the truth is, it's a little desperate already. For example, in rural areas Mr Núñez Feijóo all the laws tell us that this is going to be the legislation of the rural. But we see that, at the time of truth, rural and our productive sectors are not moving forward, but we are at a moment of clear retreat. And the best fallback we have on the X-ray given to us by the Galego Institute of Statistics itself. According to data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, since 2009 the total number of workers employed in the primary sector in Galicia has decreased by 21%, falling from 73,823 people to 58,271 registered on 31 December 2016. I don't know if this tells the government anything or if they're really happy and they think we're going in the right direction in relation to the primary sector. I've already told you that the Galego Nationalist Block does not believe that it is not normal for us to see how a key sector continues to be dismantled for the maintenance of rural activity, such as the dairy sector. Every year we repeat a statistic that is the finding of a drama, and we see that most dairy farms that close in the Spanish state are Greek farms. According to the 2016 data, 6 of the 10 holdings that closed in the Spanish State were Welsh. However, the rural councillor is satisfied with this outcome and maintains a policy that leads us to the extermination of our rural environment. We, of course, think it would be necessary another guy... [[Murmurs.]] I don't know what they're having breakfast... If you feel bad about Monday coming to Parliament's sessions... I ask for some respect, please. Well, you don't think so, Mr. President. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I don't think so. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, understand that there is a need for important changes, both in agricultural policy and in the policy of supporting the fishing and seafood sector in our country. There must be a real bet by the Land Bank, by agricultural research, by the promotion of our country's transformation industry. It can't be that we're just producing milk as a main product. It's also essential that there is a new forest policy that is not at the service of Ence and of eucalyptization, but at the service of putting in value all the potential and wealth that our mountain has. [[Applause]] In the area of the sea, we see again as the only bet that Galician Union has is to support intensive aquaculture. And we believe that what we would have to do is precisely support all the wealth that can be generated in our country, recovering seafood banks, actually supporting measures against the mortality of the Berbereccho, supporting our producers and producers when there are closures by the Administration, supporting the commercialization of artisanal fishing, or the impulse of measures that are also strategic to our country as is the City of the Sea in Vigo. The third block that I wanted to mention today also has to do with the need for us to end social unrest and shield public services and basic rights. In the health field, the People's Party continues to focus on cuts and the privatization of health. And we think that precisely what is needed is precisely the opposite: we have to increase staff in health; we have to rescue the health of privatizations, starting with the Vigo hospital, which was the evidence bank of the People's Party on a model of privatization, which we have already seen as a consequence of this: an worsening of the quality of care; as well as a plan to reduce waiting lists, but not to derive public attention from the private sector, but to strengthen attention within the public domain, and therefore we understand that a plan to reduce waiting lists would be needed. It's playing, therefore, with the most precious thing we have as people, which is our health and our life. We, of course, think this is important. Education was also another of the People's Party's privatising goals. We see through the LOMCE what is the educational model of PP, an elite model, privatization, disqualification and patriarchal. Our amendments believe that they have to reorient this model, that we have to bet on a teaching adapted to the needs of our country, to the service of the people of Galicia. And we must also set in motion the recovery of all professors and teachers who have been cut off; to improve the quality of our educational centres, because there are many centers that are very damaged because they have neglected their maintenance over these years; to bet on measures such as the freeness of textbooks or really support for a university education where anyone can access and where we support all the potential in university from the point of view of research and innovation, and let that be a piar for their transfer to society. Finally, I would also like to highlight three other questions that have to do with BNG proposals: We were talking about the need for more means and resources to fight against gender-based violence. And we believe that this is a subject that the Government of Greece should not take on the frivolity with which it is addressing the amendments that we present in this matter. A few days ago we had an agreement in this House, which for us was an important agreement, and the first point of that agreement is that more means and resources were needed to fight against gender-based violence. Today in these partial amendments we talk about the need to put in place measures of awareness-raising, training, care for victims of gender-based violence, providing more resources for these departures. And the People's Party today even amends that first point that we adopted very few days ago in the Galician Parliament. I'd really ask them to have a rectification in this regard, and today we have at least the approval of some amendment that improves the staffing to raise awareness, training and care for victims of gender-based violence. The fifth point we would like to highlight today has to do with the proposals to put in place a more sustainable development. And in this sense, it's fundamental, first, that we end up with the model of incineration of waste and that we bet on composting. This would enable us to comply with the Urban Solid Waste Management Plan itself, as well as with state and European legislation. If the Galician Union had supported this plan, we could be talking about the creation of more than 3,000 jobs in our country. And I don't think this is a question for you to take lightly as the People's Party is doing. We also want to improve and increase funds for sanitation and comprehensive regeneration of our rivers, or to make a serious and real bet on why we develop neighbourhood services in this country. A statutory competition that is only on paper and that would really be fundamental to implementing a new mobility model and also to disrupt and eliminate the impact of transport...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u21	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u22	...on CO2 emissions in our country. And lastly, because I was talking at the beginning of the need for a profound change in this country in everything that has to do with the support of what unites us more as Greeks and as Greeks, which is our language. It's been eight years since the People's Party decided that its policy in this area was asphyxiation and boycotting a necessary process of normalization of the Greek language. The consequences are that we are seeing the process of the loss of spokespersons accelerate. And this is not a natural phenomenon, this is a phenomenon that has behind conscious political decisions that the People's Party has made. Among these conscious decisions: the economic asphyxiation of any language policy, which is now reduced to the anecdote in those budgets, and do not suppress the General Secretariat of Language because it would be too bad. What we propose is an amendment to provide with 10 million euros the policies of linguistic normalization, because it's not worth a day that one day they complain that they are being lost if the next day what they do is to suffocate any policy that positively affects to reverse that situation. So here they also have a country proposal that is important to our future. In conclusion, in the face of some budgets of the People's Party, with no soul, no heart, no ambition or country project, and that all they do is consolidate an economically wrong and unjust policy from the social point of view, from the Galician Nationalist Block, we present more than three hundred amendments that want to give a social spin, a bet on quality employment, an ambitious country program that allows us to put an end to the policy of our resources and bet on modernization and innovation in Galicia. I wish today that the People's Party had not put a stone on that wall that separates us and has not put a stone on a wall that the only thing that will bring is more suffering and more problems for the Greeks and the Greeks, and that they really reflect that the fact that they have most gives them legitimacy to rule, what they don't give them is legitimacy to suffocate democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to begin by congratulating the advisor and his team, because they were able in very little time, as the president recalls, to make an express budget, although surely their basic lines were made before the elections, but above all because they were able to make a perfect budget. As the spokesperson for the BNG has already pointed out, they have not taken into consideration any of the amendments tabled by the opposition groups to the state of expenditure. Of the hundreds we did among all, there was nothing worth changing in this budget, it was a perfect budget, well, perfect for the People's Group and I understand that for the Government. But this attitude has obvious consequences for the functioning of the political system in Galicia. If the budget is impossible to change, because, I say, perfectly, Parliament is undoubtedly devalued, is it not? What's the job we're doing here for? If the budget remains unchanged throughout its parliamentary process, it is surely because the Government — not the People's Group — is acting in this particular matter in a way — let's say — that it is a matter of arrogance. Perfect budget without change, discussion procedure, therefore quite absurd, right? Why waste more than two months all the time in the debate in committee and in full if we come back here two months later to the starting point with the document without changing a comma, except for a small change that does not affect the state of expenditure? Put a clear warning at the beginning of the processing and we avoid all this effort, all this work. The escape also in the trust deposit that citizens have in institutions, that as we recall a few days ago, now no longer, if they see their seams at the bottom. The warning — finally, it's a classic — following Dante could be: leave all hope, leave all hope. How do we explain to the citizens, how do we explain to ourselves that so many hours to gather information, to discuss these issues, to reason, end up collapsing with the wall of indifference of a Government that does not meet the reasons of thirty-four Members? They know perfectly well, in addition, that the budget is full of imperfections; some of them we have already commented on in public and in private. You know, for example, — and this has not been commented but it comes to the story today — that the contingency fund has been substantially reduced in this last budget much below what legal provisions are. But that contingency fund is supposed to be mobilized for a continence like these temporals, as soon as the budget is approved — I suppose this very morning — in order to meet the demands of the most affected municipalities, in order to be able to replenish the dependent infrastructures of the Galician Union and which have been left in worse condition by the temporal, in order to create a line of aid that meets people's demands, not only from the dairy sector, the livestock sector, but from many other industrial and service sectors, and families who saw how their livelihood was paralyzed for three days with consequences that we are not yet able to calculate. Many of them, surely covered by insurance and many of them, surely — and here we have to make an effort — are responsible for the electrical companies that should guarantee supply. [[Applause]] But, in any case, a public aid for what is not covered by any of this would be welcome. A budget — and you know it perfectly, Counselor — that will be subject to changes throughout the exercise, and many of them are already planned for today. So they're not going to be the result of changing the conditions that happen in the next few months. It is that in many cases it is done to fail, because they will not be able to execute at even a normal or usual rate many of the games that are scheduled for it. So it's so far from perfect. This resistance to change during the parliamentary debate responds to a political attitude, it is not a result of chance. The public budget vault is open only for networks that pass through the general leadership and the Councillors of the Galician Union, which transit through the branches well branched in support of the People's Party, and that no one has a decision to discuss this privilege, because it won't happen. The political message is clear: whoever sends here is the People's Party and there's nothing else to do. For if that is the message, the debate is language, and this act, which we're representing here in the last two months, is perfectly useless. And as Ortega said, useless effort produces melancholy. So let's get a little melancholy in the remaining minutes and talk about the budget. We could repeat the whole debate, because it is the same document that entered what is now in its final process, but then to melancholy we would certainly add boredom, tedious, because we would again discuss the same parameters. In any case, before introducing some news, let me quote very briefly those elements that were part of my intervention in the initial discussion on the budget: First, in 2016, it was a year that broke a very negative trend for Galicia, it was an exceptional year. In 2017 we will again be below the growth figures in production, so in employment even more, than the whole of the Spanish economy. The year 2016 was exceptional and we returned to normal. Something fails in the economic policy of the Galician Union when we are unable to guarantee economic growth in our country, at least, similar to Spanish. And we don't talk about the job anymore, because here the distances are even more alarming, and everything seems to indicate that they're going to be like this. Galicia is less in production and, above all, in employment. Secondly, there is an excessive dependence on private investment decisions in the Galician Union forecasts. Airef has recently published a document that evaluates global forecasts and indicates that it seems to him that Joining is a reasonable forecast. I'm not going to discuss it, I'm not discussing global forecasts, I'm discussing specific forecasts centered on investment. The economic results for 2017 depend in excess of the expansion of gross capital formation. Keynes has already warned us all of the inconsistencies, the volatility, the psychological weakness of investment decisions. More recently, other Nobel prizes, such as Akerlof and Shiller, speaking of this, reminded us that in current conditions it's still harder to control what he called Keynes and what they call "animal spirits", much more so when the geopolitical risk in which Galicia is does only rise. That dependency weakens the predictions of the Galician Union, because the future is uncertain and the forecasts are weaker. Third, you're still committed, and you haven't corrected it in the course of the debate, in a strategy focused on meeting the deficit. The fiscal strategy of the last nine exercises can be defined by this. Complying with the deficit is fine, but that's not a strategy, that must be a restriction, a restriction to which the strategy in government action is subject. And the absence of a project is the result of confusing the restriction with the strategy. Clientism is the real substitution strategy, which is actually done, but it can't be put on paper. The Galician Union has thus devoted itself to the short term: winning elections, against the medium and long term, which speaks of productivity, inclusive progress or employment. In this budget there is an excessive adjustment, the Galician Union exceeds what is stipulated in the global figures for autonomous communities. There's a loss, a downward shift, which we're going to put into about 60 million euros in debt capacity, which is probably one of the changes you're going to make throughout the year in budget -- so it's far from perfect. Let's say they didn't have a decision to do it during the parliamentary procedure so that we could discuss here what these 60 million are for. But what we know of the 2016 liquidation of the budgets of the Union indicates that the deficit for this same exercise will be quite below the authority. With this difference it could have been done, for example, the recovery of public officials' salaries in 2016, without waiting for 2017, or facing an investment that would allow Vigo's average hospital to do so rather than through private funds. A lack of ambition and a lack of trust. The 2017 budget is a low investment budget. There's a reduction in projected current savings, involving the volume of public investment in Galician Union. With robust economic growth, the investment of the Union in terms of gross domestic product is stagnated and its weight is reduced as a percentage of the consolidated budget. However, recovering the levels of self-investment is necessary to meet the demands emboldened all these years from different sectors, from different territories, to be able to have the quality public services we need. There was a thin rain tax strategy focused on selective reductions through the introduction of tax benefits to sectors or specific activities, and a waiver of the use of capacity to change types and increase fiscal progress. One example is the tax discount on the purchase of rural housing, but according to the information published, this gives an amount of over two and a half million euros, covering more than 90% of the territory. We are pleased with the beneficiaries of these aids, that it is clear; finally, very good for them. But the question that we should ask ourselves among all is: is this going to mean a shift in the economic circumstances of agricultural activities or even the population living in rural areas? Let's have an effect, shall we have a result? Because that's what it's about. If we don't have that result, why do we do this? Will you benefit above all those who undertake a life project linked to the rural environment or will you benefit the owners of second residences in peri-urban areas, which are also affected by this bonus? That's what we have to ask ourselves: for the results, not so much for the intentions, that we all certainly have them magnificent. And finally, it is an budget that does not reflect recovery and does not introduce the necessary reforms. Economic tone has changed in recent years, no doubt. We've been recovering for at least three years, but budgeting does not affect the profound reform of the expenditure profile that would be needed to meet social needs and boost growth. We have to talk about something else, just because this is the debate on the state of expenditure. We have made a considerable effort to profoundly alter the cost profile with our amendments, even within the limits of this debate. We tabled approximately 500 amendments, with an accumulated amount of EUR 414 million. If we leave out the expenditure chapters which we do not consider appropriate to amend because it is not possible, such as staff commitments, Chapter III, chapters VIII and IX of expenditure, because approximately these amendments affect 8% of the remaining appropriations. The effort is considerable. However, we believe that these amendments would substantially improve the budget. They would allow, for example, a Galicia more opportunities, for Thursdays especially, but generally for all those who want to engage in an economic activity or who need to find a job. We are proposing amendments that in the budget as a whole could modify approximately EUR 85 million in employment, with specific programmes directed at youth, women, long-term unemployed, those affected by ERE, the disabled, by creating special employment centres for the promotion of entrepreneurship, for the involvement of the municipalities and the recovery of the territorial pacts of employment and the social economy, to strengthen the training of unemployed and the unemployed. And the busy, something you didn't do in 2016. In this year 2016, with the job situation as it was, they didn't pull out the call of the busy last year. I repeat: they did not draw the training call for employees in 2016. This is the management they present to us in the field of employment. And the data is well known: If we compare the occupation in the last quarter of 2008 and in the last quarter of 2016, Galicia is the autonomous community that most jobs in proportion destroyed: 12.3%. Andalucia, the famous autonomous community of Andalucia, so mentioned here, destroyed 7%. We're the sweet one and the peak. But the recovery, if we evaluate what happens in the recovery from the last quarter of 2012 to today, the last four years, Galicia is the one that less employment has recovered from all autonomous communities, along with the Basque Country: 1.5% of job growth. Since the last quarter of 2012, we have been able to create around 15,000 jobs in terms of net employment in Galicia. That's the result. Andalucia recovered 9%, we 1.5%. We're not talking about specific sectors like youth, industry; we're not talking about the quality of employment, because the results would always be much more discouraging. And should these figures not call them to reflection, to limit — let us say — arrogance in budget management, to distrust the perfection of this document? Something is working wrong in San Caetano: you continue to trust programs with so few results and managers who are unable to bring the resources available to those who need them at the moment they need them most. We have to go back to budget, and so we understand our amendments, just to offer employment opportunities and professional recycling opportunities suitable for Galician men and women. The Strategic Plan set by 2020 a 70% employment rate for Galicia — that is the goal — in the European Union 75%, and we are at 61%. With your budget data as a target for this year, we can't make decisive progress on that track. We're not on the right track to achieve the modest objective that the Government has set, we're far from Galicia's opportunities we want to build. We want our amendments to make Galicia more competitive. I know that this differential between employment and production growth is the increase in productivity. And this is fine, Galicia is doing well in terms of increasing productivity. That's right, we think it's all right. The economy does not absorb the lack of work at the right doses, but we are being a little more efficient in industrial production in services and elsewhere. What's bothering me? I'm worried that if we see this from the other side, that differential is the surplus available to invest. If we were in a kind of model — in lower tone — let us say just like a Chinese economic model, where there is a great boost from the investment financed from those surpluses, which allows us to boost production and boost employment, because we could discuss the balance of that model, but in any case we would have some positive phenomena to highlight. But the opposite is happening: they're becoming depressed in terms of wages, they're increasing surpluses, but there's no impulse for investment that allows them to create more jobs and grow more than the rest. They're reconstituted business balances, reducing debt, but also surely, even though we don't have those figures available, also by other indirect data, there's a lot of resources coming out abroad that generate production capacity and employment in other latitudes. That is why we want to act on the factors of supply, and among them those that affect the decisions to invest, of entrepreneurs, of companies, with specific programmes for the traditional well-known sectors such as the slate and granite, the automotive assistants — of which we will speak in the next plenary session — of the naval. But also betting on strengthening other emerging areas: aeronautical biotechnology, or high-growth companies, or those that combine an intense growth potential with positive external effects on the environment in the area of biomass or miniaelic. With a more determined action in the rural environment, to boost the partial concentrations and the creation of sustainable forest masses, to defend the dairy sector or irrigation. With a bet on the regeneration of seafood banks and the recovery of artisanal fishing, which we still hope you will reflect and be able to support our amendments to strengthen resources for EDARs, which allow rivers to go cleaner and that there is no risk of pollution in our rivers. To promote marketing in strategic sectors, such as mexillon. We are not against aquaculture, but we do believe that support for aquaculture cannot compromise those that must be given to other areas of fishing. And we have to make a more balanced bet on the whole fishing sector. We believe that action must be taken on internationalization. We have a favourable trade balance — as I have said here before — but it is too much dependent on a small number of large exporting companies. Other societies must be incorporated into export, particularly pemes, other segments, services — very important —; other markets must be won; international trade turbulence must be anticipated, Brexit should be given an opportunity, see the consequences of the possible disruption of NAFTA or the evolution of energy prices. And above all, we have to act decisively on investment, giving them confidence, giving companies stability. There are programs in the Igape that simply need to run at a faster pace than is currently being done, strengthening some with more resources and substantially improving those that don't work, so companies bet on Galicia. We need to normalize relations with the Confederation of Employers and discuss with them and the unions a medium-term program, not only for the auxiliary car industry, but for the others I've mentioned before, acting on research and technology transfer. The other day I was in a very interesting act in the City of Culture, and the president of the board assumed all that was being done in that matter. And it's true that you're doing a lot, but you have to remember a question: when Nuñez Feijóo comes to the presidency of the board the expenditure on R+D+i was in Galicia at 1.2% of the gross domestic product, today it's under 0.90. All right, you're doing a lot of less resources, but you have to bet a lot more! And, above all, you shouldn't just bet on college -- and I say I'm a university student, which I ran a university research institute a short time ago -- you have to do it mostly because that's where we have the main deficit. We need to make an additional effort in companies, so they can bet on innovation and can be competitive in the medium term. And along with BNG's spokesperson, we have to act decisively on industrial soil policy and industrial polygons. The supply of competitive public soil at a good price is insufficient in areas of Galicia that need it, limiting the ability to attract new companies or new investments. We must prepare ourselves for an expansion of demand in the coming years if things are going well and sell our abilities better. We have to bet on inclusive growth and strengthen Galicia more than it takes care of its people. We must not leave anyone behind, especially those who have suffered more intensely in these years the consequences of the crisis of the adjustment of public expenditure. Recovery must be inclusive, because this is what gives us not only social cohesion but political stability, and if it's done well, it also gives us momentum for economic growth. Our amendments, which revolve above all at this stage of partial amendments on the necessary infrastructures, reflect the common feeling of many people in Galicia — from mayors, of our confectioners, of social organizations — who have unsatisfactory needs, and tell stories of people's needs that we have not been able to cover these years since public budgeting and that we should now be in economic recovery in a position to attend: difficulties in sending children to study public centres around cities, where libraries and other spaces are enabled because they no longer give to more; educational centres that should be reformed; to make health centres that would better care in some areas and give primary attention to quality; accidents and delays in communication that a poor action on some roads makes it absolutely essential — difficult lives that we fight to move to these budget amendments and convince them that they will change their priorities and may need more infrastructure; There are no low-founded demands in our proposals. There may be insufficient resources, there may have to prioritize other things, there may also, and many times, there may be a political decision not to pay attention to those councils that are not governed by the People's Party. And that's not acceptable. The funds that finance these activities — we have often repeated it — of investments of an immaterial nature, not because they don't have to, they have to do it, but when it comes to the end of November and December and we see so many pages or so many issues that more than explain a program are dedicated to paying for the action of the Board, and they are focused on a very short period of time, we realize that there are too many resources that could be allocated to something else. And that's why we make our amendments. Let's take care of our people when they need it most. And that's why we are committed to strengthening the social services of the municipalities, to increasing resources in the fight against poverty, and that's why we want to strengthen the programs that serve people with functional diversity. All reports are coincident, coming from organisations that work on the street or from sidious reports from international organizations: Spain was starting from a low level of inequality and this has worsened greatly during the crisis, we are gradually reaching the countries of Europe more unequal. And Galicia, which was under Spain, is following the same path, we are still under, but we follow the same path. The inequality stems from the deterioration of the labour market, from the loss of employment, but also from the excessive adjustment in public services, from the deterioration of wages, from the working conditions, but also from the fact that there were many resources that were made to reach families with difficulties through public services that are not now available. The youth saw their situation deteriorating, the biggest endured better. But we all know that it's not possible to keep that situation if we don't create jobs, if we don't create opportunities for Thursdays, and if we don't also solve the incognites that weigh on the pension system. Public systems of help to those who need it are essential. The data from the Galego Institute of Statistics tell us that the level of inequality before the implementation of public aid would be twice as much as later; therefore, it is working on its role. But much more needs to be done because the level of inequality is still unacceptable. We need to develop, for example, Galician Social Inclusion Act, because after four years it has no regulatory development. And you should know better that this is necessary to prevent some practices that are embedded in the administration's operation and that bring back to the point of departure many requests, when it's people who just have a lot of needs. We have to get rid of these practices and do it right. And the public guarantee of basic services — education and health — also affects quality of life and, much more intensively, those who have less resources. I spoke little about it today because most of our amendments to the format of the budget debate are focused on infrastructure. But of course we need to do a lot more to have quality public services, regaining the level of employment and making it work more efficiently. Finally, we need a Galician who takes care of herself. Do you know how much this year's budget of the Galician Union is for the defence and maintenance of our assets once we have eliminated the staff expenditure chapter? Five million euros, 5 million euros for the defense of our heritage! A similar amount for linguistic normalization: EUR 5 million! We should not be surprised if we make amendments that reinforce those programmes and withdraw them from resources for other functions. We take care of Galicia with the protection of the environment, with the creation of green paths, with the seal of the spills, with the recovery of the beaches. We take care of Galicia with language and culture and with the defense of heritage. Many of our amendments — I insist again — want to strengthen the policy of building hydraulic infrastructures to preserve the environment, to ensure clean roads, to guarantee clean rivers for people's enjoyment. "I'm done." We consider these budgets as a missed opportunity for the correction of policies that do not work, for the implementation of initiatives that recovery makes possible, for the transfer of recovery to people. You persist in errors and do not bother to understand the reasons for the opposition. Most of this Parliament, they have had the number of votes to rule, nobody discusses it; but a victory managed proudly — and this budget manages that victory arrogantly — squanders confidence and defrauds citizenship. To govern today is an exercise under the instant scrutiny of public opinion, and today this public opinion must be discouraged. Because they could create more opportunities, make Galicia more competitive, take better care of our people, protect threatened material Galicia and its missing identity. And they didn't want to share with us this challenge of making Galicia stronger. It's your responsibility and so we'll sue you in the next few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, to set its position on the dictatorship and defend its amendments, Mr Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u26	Good morning. Sometimes the coincidence of facts in the same period reveals the farce which often hides itself and which is about to hide. In very little time, in just less than two months, we saw a rise in the price of electricity of more than 30% thanks to the great model of electricity system designed by the Minister Soria and the People's Party. We also attended the appointment as a member of the Electric Network Management Board of Mr. Arsenio Fernández de Mesa, also thanks to the conception of the democratic hygiene that the People's Party has; this man who, according to the Prestige's judgment, had a confusing and diffuse management during those days of infasto memory for this country. Because you are Mr. Fernández de Mesa, who works in the public administration, always sucking on the public administration's boat since 1979, as good lovers of neoliberalism and the free market that you are, they always put it in places where they think it won't disturb much. You thought that as a government delegate, you wouldn't be greatly disturbed, and we've seen the consequences of having useless and incapacitated in the face of political responsibilities, with no other merit than being a loyal friend to the powerful. And now I put it on Spanish Electric Network also charging about €150,000 a year. One more joke. This also coincided with the announcement of the sale of hydroelectric power stations, in front of the German Government's tibia, by Mr. Villarmir, friend of Mr. Fraga Iribarne. And the agreement speaks of 253 million euros for hydroelectric power stations. Low price, but that gives you a glimpse of the magnitude of the copio and the plundering that is continually done on our rivers, in exchange for almost nothing, in exchange for not even the work. And it coincided almost in time also this time with the cuts of light to thousands and thousands of people, especially in rural areas, in the face of ineptitude, passivity and inability of the Greek Government. Because I suppose you too will be inept, incapable and passive as the two-party government was in 2009, according to Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Rueda, right? These said that the problems of a time similar to this and the light cuts in January 2009 were due to the inability, ineptitude and passivity of the Board, and demanded Mr. Tourin's presence in Parliament. I suppose in the face of similar events you too will be incapable, inept and passive, yes or no? Will Mr. Feijó come to explain this outcome, yes or no? And I say that this coincidence of facts exposes the great farce, the great swindler you've been working on for many years. Because we must not forget that the main distributor — who almost has a natural monopoly on the distribution of electricity in this country — Gas Natural Union Fenosa charges approximately EUR 800 billion per year to ensure the maintenance of distribution facilities and to create the new lines according to the demand. We have already denounced here in the past legislation what the Directorate General of Industry did with that investment plan, which is not to make a watch, but to let genuine scams like the ones we reported on their day. Where is the work of the Directorate-General for Industry of this German Government to ensure that distribution networks are maintained in good condition, gentlemen of the People's Party? Get your heads up, where's that job? According to the testimony of many mayors — including the People's Party — and of many neighbors and neighbors, that work leaves much to be desired, but it's not due to lack of capacity, it's by convivence with the electricians once again. It's the farce and the swindling because of the nature of always: first, by the dryness and then by the rain and the wind. But it's good to be clear and people see it. Well, we expect them to respond as they demanded the two-party government to respond, if not once again we'll see his real face. As for budgets, what is intended at this time by the People's Party, and as it is said that the worst has already happened, that we are already in recovery, is simply consolidating the model of the loss of rights of the majority, of precariousness, of the systemic corruption that you have been practicing and collaborating to do, and of the lack of prospects for a social majority. You, who have fattened these years to the powerful, your own, those who created the crisis, want to convince us that we are giving itself to this model of recovery, to the consolidation of a model that excludes more and more people. Those who caused the collapse in 2008 have been fleeting for some time, but a lot of people get poorer and more precarious than at the beginning of the crisis. Just as an example: wages at this time between 2008 and 2015 lost a weight against corporate profits of 2.4 percentage points. And to know that what you're trying to do is to consolidate a model and it's not the discomfort of many people or the precariousness of many people, it's not something conjunctural, superficial or passenger, it's important to look at the whole set, to have a whole perspective, to know that, however, many of the things that happen and that you treat as minor issues are structural in this neoliberal postcrisis model. First, you can talk about work, lack of work, and you can tell us that the job is being recovered. But in the meantime, there are enormous continents of people in this country over 45 years of age who have been unemployed for more than two years, excluded from the possibility of having a job, of being socially integrated, of having a decent life. The job problems of young people, who often don't work and when they work, are on temporary contracts that they don't give to live. We've seen these sources of quote that give rise to their work model, which they don't give to support the social security system either. And this is structural, structural, the model that you propose to us, it's the direct consequence of your model; it's not the mistakes of your policies, it's your policies. You are a model that creates inequality, that needs cheap labour; workers without desperate rights for accepting conditions that other conditions would not accept. We can talk about employment from the point of view of youth, how much unemployment?, how much emigration?, how much temporality?, how much precarious? It can improve the situation in one tenth of a percent, but what doesn't disappear with this little recovery is that precariousness, temporality, unemployment. That's the panorama that many young people have in this country: either go out or be precarious, and always live with the anguish of when they're going to end the days of being able to collect and work. We can also talk about housing and homelessness. And we also see that in your assumptions, if you devote sectoral shares to us smaller, and you don't deal with the structural issues of this problem, because this problem is because there are low wages, there's poverty, and the price of housing doesn't go down, there's no housing housing. In short, housing policies that prioritize housing as an investment asset and forget the right to enjoy a decent housing -- a model that has been leading to the exclusion of thousands and thousands of people from their homes for years. It is no longer a question of getting them unsuspected, because since 2009 the data on the disappearance remain constant in this country. You are on the side of what you are, you are on the side of the banks and the companies that speculate with the housing. If we're talking about energy poverty, what we're talking about is, on the one hand, poverty, people who don't have enough income to be able to pay for electricity, food, education, clothing, etc., and we're also talking about the electric swindle, the government's conviviality with electricity, the rise in prices of light after the false liberalisation that he said would cause the price drop and he doubled them in just fifteen years. Stafa, also social fraud, because in a report by the Galician Economic and Social Council, chaired by Corina Porro, they gave data on the increase in certain services in Galicia over the last five years, up to 2015. And he said this report by the Economic and Social Council — which doesn't say in Marea, or by Nicolás Maduro — that housing rose to people by 22%; electricity, gas and other fuels by 31%; water, waste, community expenses by 21%; teaching groups by 16%; university education by 26% and primary and child education by 14%, as well as secondary by 13%; pharmaceutical and therapeutic product costs paid by people increased by 11%; and then in social services, elderly homes, help in homes for older, daycare, etc., people in five years had to cope with an increase of 17%. If you talk in budget speeches about the fact that social services have not been cut off, that social spending has been shielded, how can there be this data?, why do people pay 20% more in pharmaceuticals or therapeutics?, why is there this 17% increase in day care facilities, residences for older people, etc.? It's because people have to pay what you've stopped paying, I think. This, in addition, is insensitive politics in the face of the weak, but highly regarded by the powerful. And we know -- I say again -- which side are you. This panorama he drew could be common even for the entire state. But after eight years of government Feijóo, you are not recently arrived, Galicia also weighs less at the population level, demographics; it weighs less economically, in GDP, in relation to the state; and it weighs less politically. A government and a president who seem delighted that Galicia goes to the second political division on such transcendent issues as the negotiation of the system of self-financing. Galicia has lost since you rule 80,000 inhabitants, and far above the average of the Spanish state, far above it. If when the crisis started, when you started ruling, we were 6% of the population of the Spanish state, today we are 5.82, and the crisis I suppose would affect the whole state. This proportional decline in Galicia with respect to the state, which means a worse behavior in this country: people have to emigrate and people grow less children because they have no job prospects that guarantee them a decent life. Matters as delicate as dependence, with truly dramatic situations and people, give us a vision of the effects of their neoliberal politics, of which the disciples are advantaged. We heard — and I'm sure you too — witnesses of people who a few years ago received EUR 400 for a dependency aid and now they don't reach 200. And it's no causality, because Galicia has a ratio between recognized dependents and genuinely pauperimous beneficiaries, the ratio is far below the state average. Galicia follows below in aid to dependency benefits with respect to the state average, and the percentage of effective benefits on beneficiaries of the dependency benefit system is the lowest in the state. And we're not talking about numbers, we're talking about exactly the public policies that are intended for people who are still suffering. And you cut off, and cut off more than one state that is already champion of the cuts. So you're insensitive to the suffering of these people, while they're denying this problem, while they're denying this reality. Galicia ages more than the state. Yes, Galicia has an average population age of 46.2 years, the state is 42.4 years old, and rising to the distance there is, because we also know the data of the people who had to leave this country, even though you and Mr. Feijó deny it day and day as well. He's also lost more jobs than the Spanish average. They used to talk about BNG's and the Socialist Rural Party's colleagues, and when Mrs. Pontón spoke of "extermination" laughing, they shouted. That's right, without the President's call of attention, which only has his neck twisted to this side. What are they scandalizing when it comes to the extermination of the countryside? It's probably out of ignorance, because you don't know that since you've been in government, you've destroyed one out of three jobs in the agricultural, livestock and forestry primary sector, one out of three. When you arrived there were high 71,600 people, and two years ago -- the last data I know -- was 45,000. And what do you call this five or six villages a month or a week, I don't know, what do you call this? What do they call the situations that happened these days of time, and which I do not want to realise, of older people without light and who had no one to turn to for help?, what do they call this situation? That's modern for you, isn't it? And then they raise their voice when it comes to "extermination." At least a little bit of shame. They also lost in Galicia, far above average, one in five industrial jobs. We can also talk about differential facts of this wonderful Government. In the dairy sector too, and very positive news for the advisor, that 60% this year, 70% of the farms they close in the state are Germans. That's good, modernity once again. What I know about modernity is that if it goes down in the primary sector, it will grow in the industrial sector. And in the agricultural industry, we know the policy of the People's Party, which was Milk Food: to give them nine, eight and a half million euros, to friends to waste them, to leave them indebted to the owners and to break several cooperatives. You also encourage cooperatives like that. Here, in the dairy sector, those who did their homework, those who did their homework before a model that you posed to them as panacea — this model of buying quota, of size, of buying technology — that was the owners who did it. A German claw can compete with any European claw at the level of knowledge, installations, etc. Those who have not met were you, who have been ruling thirty-five years of democracy in this country. And we see how they have territorial management so they can have the landowners base and not pay the price of the land, prohibitive price for a productive activity like the landowner. Or, for example, they didn't meet with a minimally coherent industrial policy; not only minimally consistent, that you were against, you blew up any attempt to make a Greek dairy group, to make an industrial project for this country. You were responsible. And then we're shocked that we're talking about "extermination" or "catastrophisms"; they say we're very catastrophic. We in rural areas believe there was a possibility of creating jobs and wealth in sectors that have a lot of potential to do in this country. You didn't move your finger. They inherited a project to create a guarantee mark for the Welsh garden, the draft was already done, it was missing to approve, they didn't do anything, neither did they. Another of the differential factors of this government, and another betrayal to the country, was their energy policy. In the energy and renewables sector, Galicia also had the potential to create jobs — and especially in rural areas — and you've managed badly, and in addition to mismanagement, you've got off the side of the electrics. You paralyze the Greek wind sector: zero megawatts of Mr. Feijóo's contest, which would be historic, sky! They didn't have time to install a megawatt? What happened? It's a judgment that says that the suspension of the previous invitation to tender was illegal, that what they did is paralyze this sector. And, above all, Mr. Soria when he made those reforms that completely crippled the renewables sector, Mr. Feijóo was very quiet. He didn't say a word when he had to stand up to the country so they wouldn't paralyze a sector that could be our future and the exit for many people. But here on all these issues you have to choose: in the housing you have to choose whether you are on the right side of the housing or the housing speculators, you have to choose; in the electricity you have to choose whether you are with Natural Gas, Iberdrola, hugging, or you are right for people to have an electric supply; or whether you are on the side of the health business or whether you are on the side of public health. Well, when I get here — it's a common matter for my colleagues — I'll start by talking about our amendments. But first remember that call to the dialogue Mr. Feijóo gave us at the beginning of this legislation. You can see that. Man, we're not born yesterday, we don't believe those promises anymore, but today we find that no amendments are approved by a thousand. And we understand that we're on the antipodes. As I've already said, we've chosen sides too, and you choose another side. We're at the antidotes. But what we are surprised at is that within these thousand amendments, which are not ideological amendments, which are amendments of common sense, often complaints from all the municipal groups that move them. And they don't approve of them, they don't even study them. And since there are now neighbors and neighbors of Sada, I believe that one and another political color, and the mayor of Sada, I would like to talk about an amendment that we tabled to solve a problem that happened in Sada a year ago and that there is still potential: the problem of the severe floods that occurred in March 2016, I think I remember. This problem was not caused by the management of Sada Majoría or a Marea, it is an inherited problem of the policies of the People's Party, which almost continuously ruled Sada. The Town Hall of Sada is a common sense solution — which I'm not going to explain because I don't have time — is a technical solution to expand the section. Well, let us take it to the Commission, where Comrade Marcos Cal exposed it, who has stopped to present this amendment because we want that, of course, if we are to be approved by the amendments. The People's Group didn't know about this amendment... had no knowledge and told them it didn't. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, we know... but we can talk about the Garga Bridge in Ponteceso, the Storm Tank in Corme... They're requests for common sense that you don't study, it's an absolute lack of respect for that ignorance of what we present. But it is a lack of respect not for us, for the neighbors and neighbors of Sada, of Corme, of Ponticesus, who have the same right despite not being ruled by the governments of the People's Party. They abandon their sectarianism, and they think that you are the Government of all the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] And yes, Counselor, bad that we regret, bad that they care about you that in many mayors they have thrown them out for politics of corruption, politics of clientelism, among others, Sada, The Crown, Ferrol, Compostela; it is bad that they care. But you have to rule for those municipalities as well. [[Applause]] They have to rule for these municipalities as well as not do what they do in the history of this country: make first and second Welsh according to whether they are governed by the People's Party or not. We give them the opportunity to change, Counselor, we give them the opportunity to change and start ruling for all. I expect an answer, an answer, not only to an amendment but to this attitude of the People's Party. We prioritize the social emergency and the basic needs of people, and that's why our amendments are consistent with this principle. In health care, huge cuts in health expenditure in this country, EUR 75/per capita since 2008; economic insufficiency is maintained. We can talk about income cuts, yes, then they don't talk about shielding these services. And they don't mention that, if we're now on recovery, we don't recover those budgets, we lack a personal need, and we amend to recover previous levels of staff. They are 1,800 lost squares in these years that mainly affect primary care, which mainly affect the rural environment. You bet on privatization and giving business to companies in health care, in something as delicate as health, so we amend to restore to the public the Vigo hospital. Public-private collaboration: yes, it's cost to the public, business for the private. They tripled the budget of the Vigo hospital and, above all, the only advantage that they say they have this public-private collaboration system, which adds 3,000 million euros to the debt of 10,000 million you leave this country after eight years, it turns out that theoretically, it doesn't have to be a public administration. In the end, what we know is that it is the European Investment Bank, which is a public body. That's closing the circle of the farce. That's why we're asking for this reversal, we're asking for the investigation to remain in public hands. If knowledge and research remain in private hands, power remains in private hands. In teaching we also want to strengthen public education, and here we also set priorities. For you there was a crisis just for public education, not for the concerted. You spend 26 million euros for religious teachers, it's very legitimate for you to do so, we believe there are other priorities. You see private education as a priority, we believe that we need to strengthen the public, and in that sense we make our amendments. In social policy we want you to reinforce Risga to walk towards a Greek social wage. We also want to know if the work of the dealership is being done at Vigo's hospital. Because the concessionaire is already doing what all the companies that enter this type of competition are doing, which is asking for financial rebalancing, asking for over-costs in the works, etc. And, as far as we know, Junta is not meeting the administrative requirements for the control of this hospital. We want to provide more resources for the Greek Mental Health Plan, the Women's Health Plan, affective-sexual plan, 2 million, oral-dental health plan, etc. We also want to improve infrastructure that has been abandoned in health for too long. As I said, in social policy, we want to strengthen risk and non-contributory pensions and create more squares of day centres and older centres. In employment we have priorities too. First, to address those most vulnerable groups, young people and older people who are excluded from the labour market. That is why we want to provide EUR 15 million for the Greek emergency plan against work insecurity and about EUR 6 million for the employment plan for vulnerable groups. We also want the budgets for language policy to be recovered, which has suffered in these years a cut, nothing less than 78%, and not politics against the language. We also want to bet on the cultural sector, because culture reaches all over the world, because we don't make an elite culture, but for the whole town. We also want to create jobs in the productive sectors, in industry, in energy. We bet on renewables in a cross-sectional way by changing regulations and also budgeting to create a decentralized model in people's hands and not in the hands of the oligopolie. That is why we also provide EUR 11 million for the European Agricultural Self-sufficiency Plan or EUR 6 million for a plan on renewable energies, in addition to those already available. In housing and rent we bet on making real policies that really deal with this problem. You can't come here to defend that your policies have been a success, but they are a failure when, year after year in this country, about two thousand and four hundred defeats occur. They can't say it was a success, they're a failure when the Royal Program, which had to solve all these thousands of challenges, had a result of 223 beneficiaries. And you come here forgetting about the people who are left out of these shows saying that everything is wonderful. That's why we put on budget and we'll also put on ideas to make a truly effective anti-disappearance policy. Environment, irrigation sanitation. Also a success in the healing of the rivers. They have ruled thirty years, thirty-five years, in this country, and it's seen how the Galician rivers are, getting European prizes every day. You don't have responsibility, it's probably also Tourin or González Laxe, it's also the problem of González Laxe, Zapatero, etc. It wasn't the fault of Mr. Arias Cañete's scandals with Aquagest neither of these things, nor of corruption, nor of the fact that scavengers of stone cardboard were laid. We're betting on strengthening those infrastructures and with models that work, not models that are designed not to work. In infrastructures we bet on the nearby train. We still don't know why the People's Party says it bets on the surrounding train but doesn't prioritize it, which they explain to me later on. And in the environment we also talk about Sogama, a genuinely aberrant model. And besides what needs to be endured: Mrs. Beatriz Mato announces that she freezes the waste management canon of Sogama. I know, you apply the IPC, don't you? Three percent. I don't know if this year is 3%, you apply the IPC. Well, with those results three years ago, 33% went up, 10% went down the next year, and now it goes up 3%, that is, in three years it went up by 26%, and that's freezing Sogama's canon! They'd like a lot of pensioners and a lot of workers who over the years have applied that concept to them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u27	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u28	...to freeze. We are putting ourselves in rural areas by... — I finish — we are in rural areas — in the next intervention I will add — also by addressing the main problem facing agriculture in this country and the rural environment in this country, which is a real drama. [[Applause]] I've repeated it many times: less than 5% of landowners don't reach the age of 40. This should give rise to a reflection on what policies they are applying for incorporation. Because a lot of assumptions about how many incorporations occur every year, but they don't give any evidence of the failure of these incorporations after time. That is why we propose a plan to incorporate young people into rural areas; we propose to promote training and the extension of agriculture and forestry to this sector, which requires much knowledge, which requires much more support than credits in banks, which is the only one...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u29	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u30	...that you offer. So we don't think we're in the face of recovery, we're in the face of a scam and the consolidation of the model of inequality, injustice. The fat fish, with their help, recovered and the working people, more precarious. We do not resign, we believe in this country, in its potential; we believe it is necessary to change the model of production relations in the suppression of privileges; we believe in equality policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u31	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u32	...and that they pay more those who have the most...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u33	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u34	...and that they benefit from public policies that are less.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u35	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u36	We believe in Galicia, its people, its enormous potential.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u37	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President for your flexibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u39	A minute and a half, thank you; about thirty, it's not so bad either. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we just refused, when the budget went into the House, the amendments to the whole. And we did it, among other things, because, as we said then, we understood that by rejecting the Galician budgets we stopped and therefore rejected the amendments to the whole. Today we start and we will vote for the budgets of Galicia, and I think this is a significant news, just when 183 municipalities are without budgets, which will have a lot of consequences for their citizens. Today we have approved some budgets which the Government has sent back to this House for two weeks and we certainly approve them today after intensive parliamentary work. And the adoption of budgets today is going to be an example of political stability — it certainly has much to do with it — which is the result of the election results of four months ago, but also — as I have just said — of the work of the Government and the councillor by bringing these budgets to the House and, of course, of the parliamentary groups, giving an image of absolutely institutional normality. Today, when we see in other autonomous communities that it's about breaking up, not with institutional normality, but with constitutional norms in themselves, when some group here speaks about applying law and respecting justice, it's authoritarianism, and instead, it's not about trying to impose their will beyond what the law sets, because I think, yes, it's worth pointing out that today we're at a moment of maximum normality. Some of the opposition's spokesmen, particularly Mrs. Pontón and to a good extent Mr. Sánchez, took advantage of this speech instead of talking about the budgets, to talk about the things of today. It was so bad luck to Mrs. Pontón that while she was asking for a file to be opened in Fenosa, Mr. Industry Counsellor was reporting that files would be opened to all the electricity companies, that compensation would be made to the users. Counsellors, all of them, Education, Agriculture, Health, Sea, etc., are working to assess and restore the damage that made the time. And, of course, the president told me right now that he's been talking to the suppliers all weekend, to the electricity grid, and he's personally to the Minister of Energy. So that news remains there and, since we are in Parliament, I would also point out another news today. I believe that this is the first time in this debate in which what is supposed to lead the majority opposition of the Government does not intervene in this debate. It would be very interesting that, for example, Mr Feijóo, when he acceded to the presidency of the party, he did not debate his proposals for Galicia with the Councillor of Fairy. This is the normal thing, as did the Galician Nationalist Block or how the Socialist Group does. However, in the tides there is a corality, a plurality which, possibly, leads to the fact that the main opposition group does not intervene in this debate through its leader. I just notice the novelty because, as we're talking about new politics, this is also an innovation. [[Applause]] In the debates that we have held following the entry into Parliament of this document which we shall also vote today, we also justify that, from our point of view, the alternatives proposed by the opposition were not appropriate. It has been said repeatedly by the main opposition group that we had less expense than in 2009, when GDP is equal to 2009. In the admission debate I've already said that this was false because, in that year, the execution, if we excluded State transfers to communities, local administrations, and we added the 1,600 million negative liquidations, costing 7,787 million, with 600 million indebtedness, when it takes 300 million. There were 6,700 million euros of current income in 2009, 8,700 million are included in the 2017 budgets, and — I insist — with 300 less additional indebtedness, and also incorporating moderate positive settlement. In fact, some opposition group even tried to get us to go through the positive settlements incorporated into the budget against the 1,600 million euros negative that we're still due to the year 2009. If you didn't see the crisis coming, it was called a slowdown. In the debate in the Commission this argument must have been convincing, I was told of the year 2008. In that year it was 10,960 million non-financial spending left to the 830 local corporations and the 573 negative settlement that we're still on duty to give rise to 9,500 million; that is, a little more than this year. In fact, that year, Junta spent a little more than this year but not forgetting that we were at the top of the bubble, not forgetting that after 2008 it came in 2009, while here, after 2016 with a growth of 3.2%, it will come a year in which we hope to grow above 2.5% and that, of course, today we still notice the effects of the crisis on the collection of certain taxes. It is enough to look at how the collection of VAT evolves as a result of increasing consumption and while the collection of companies — because companies are compensating for the losses that the crisis has left in their balance sheets — continues to weaken and therefore provides less resources to the public administrations as a whole. So we have similar budgets. And that's also what I want to point out when you come here saying that we have dismantled the country, that we have dismantled agriculture, urban, environmental, etc. Precisely the person who spoke at that time — Mrs Díaz — who acted as spokesman in this House for the group that today is the main object of the opposition, in the budget debate, Mrs Pontón — you who like the "déjà vu" and the "days of the marmota" so much, said something like that the Government was dead, which is basically the same thing you said, that it is standing, paralyzed and exhausted. Well, there, obviously, the language was stronger, thicker, and I appreciate you saying nothing about "death." He said that budget, the year 2016, was ideological and radical in his proposals. He said that the German economy grew less than Spain — the figures we're familiar with don't say that — and he even accused us of trapping budgets in this same debate. He said we were falsifying reality, that the tax drop was going to be noticed in 2017 when left-wings were ruled. The tax drop was noted in 2016 — EUR 40 million less collection by tax cuts — and certainly, in 2017, the left are not ruling. But he kept saying we weren't going to fill the ceiling because it was 4.3%, when we actually didn't. Why? Because we're over him. Why? Because there was more flexibility in the deficit and you could take advantage of that additional deficit margin to not only run budgets but overrun. I ended up asking us to do something sensible, to listen to the people out there, and I ended up saying, "Do something decent and call elections." I wanted us to call them, do something decent, that was to call them when I played; we heard the people out there; and this is the result. [[Applause]] Well, just like then, I think we have to talk about facts today. Although it was said that 2016 was an election year, Galicia met the deficit, the difference from what happened to the other autonomous communities when they had their election year, and we also have some realistic budgets. Regarding 2017, a report by the independent tax authority has just been issued just fifteen days ago, which was prudent in assessing the forecasts of the Union in the 2017 budgets; that is, we are in the best range, prudent, in front of others in which it is likely and others who are asked for explanations to see how they will be executed. Finally, we are today against what has been said then and what is said now, with stronger bases, with GDP growth in 2016 which, according to INE, is equal to that of Spain — 3.2 % —; which, according to Airef, is four tenths higher than that of Spain — 3% Spain, 3.4 % Galicia —; which, according to Funcas, is one tenth higher than that of Spain — 3.2 % and 3.1 % —. And, of course, trying to go back to 2009 or 2008 seems to me to be out of place. The job's better. The occupation grew by 1.65% last year, unemployment decreased by 8.32%; the unemployment rate is at 17% while in Spain is at 20.25% — by the way, in Andalusia, one of the communities mentioned here at 31.38% —. The registered unemployment fell by 10%, more than the Spanish average, which dropped by 9.5% in 2016. In addition, growth is based on demand rebound, investment in public expenditure and exports. The export record balance in 2016 is going to be around 19 billion euros, and Galicia is leading it along with the Basque Country — Basque Country — the first autonomous community, Galicia the third with the best export balance — which means that we are gaining competitiveness. And the good behavior of the sectors I think it's generalized; it's enough to put the case of the naval, of what we've talked about so many times and that it's got the best order book in the last five years. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, these budgets reflect the end of the recession, that growth is reasonably sound, that we have a prudent expansion of public spending without incurring deficit and continuing to comply with the commitments that Galicia has with the rest of the autonomous communities, with the state and with the European Union, and with clear budgetary priorities. Investment is growing above current spending and social engagement is beyond doubt. We're told that when we refuse the amendments, we're going to vote on a number of good things. I could reverse the argument and say exactly the opposite: when you vote not on these budgets you will vote that not that Galicia keeps the lowest university rates in all Spain or that the scholarships are in the middle of all Spain; you will vote not on a system that is giving, according to the PISA report, the best performance than the average of Spain — ten points above in understanding, five above in calculation, keep the topic in science, where it is Spain's third community in having one of Spain's highest grades in science—. Galicia is the fourth community with less school dropout; vocational training already has almost the same number of students as university; we are on average in which the distribution between professional and university studies is similar to that of Germany — the few autonomous communities we are in the media — and eight out of every ten vocational training students find employment. You're going to vote but not for these advances. You might also say that you will vote that not that we increase surgical interventions, which spent over two hundred thousand last year reducing waiting lists — ten days, although they are still very high — to increase the number of hospital consultations — more than 5 million last year, 100 thousand more than in 2015 — and also increased emergency care by 3%. And by the way, since they all spoke of Álvaro Cunqueiro, no one agreed to congratulate the workers of Álvaro Cunqueiro because, as you know, it stands as the best hospital in Galicia according to the 2016 Hospital Excellence Index. And we want to convey that congratulations to the staff of the Cunqueiro Alvaro. When you vote that not on our budgets, you vote that not on the first budgets where the average of people with recognized rights without benefit is for the first time lower than in the whole of Spain: Galicia, 27.12%; Spain, 29.33%. They think in 2009, when we got to the government, the ratio of care was 36% and now it's 70.8% with autonomous funds. That's the difference. We are looking at, instead of 14,000, some forty-nine thousand users of the dependency system, — I insist — paying the Autonomous Community at 72 %, because of the 14,000 it paid the Autonomous Community at 36%. Risga continues to increase, non-contributory pensions remain — one of the only three autonomous communities with them — the public child care markets are for the first time above the average that the European Union recommends, the higher residences have increased by 22%, the day centres by 141%. And you're going to vote that you don't keep increasing these figures. We are the fourth autonomous community with fewer challenges. And by the way, in this budget, 30% of the shares against gender-based violence are increased as a result of the agreement reached by the past legislation, 30% are increased. Therefore, agreements are good, especially in matters like this. Certainly, we since the Government have fulfilled by increasing the stakes associated with this legal reform. [[Applause]] In short, I believe that the Autonomous Community of Galicia still has the consequences of the worst recession it has ever had, but it is in a better position than the other autonomous communities to overcome the effects that the crisis has left among us. Among other things, because spending on public services in Galicia is higher than average per capita in Spain: 2,715 euros versus 2,693; that is, much more than the average and much more than the model that is always proposed from the left, which is the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, 2,715 in Galicia versus 2,475 in Andalusia. It is no wonder that the reports, for example from EAPN Spain, say, European Anti Poverty Network, regarding the risk rate of poverty or social exclusion, that Galicia is one of the three autonomous communities in which it has fallen in the worst crisis, or that it says, as for levels of poverty by autonomous communities, that in Galicia they are in poverty, unfortunately — and we will continue to work to make them disappear and diminish —, 13.9%, when the average of Spain is 14.3%; and in poverty it is 3.3% in Galicia and 6.1% on average in Spain. So I think something will have to see the self-sustainment in these figures. Obviously, if we don't agree on the diagnosis, it's hard to accept the amendments. And we do not accept them for two essential reasons: those of substance, of economic philosophy — especially those I want to pass briefly — and others in a more specific way. Philosophy. Although, certainly, for the first time in these budgets, there is no burden on the Union's debt and there is only one proposal to increase it, in relation to the moment when they were presented, to take advantage of the increase in the deficit limit that was agreed in Madrid for all autonomous communities, despite that change, two questions remain: The first is the expense. They still doubt that some of the spending policies we're making have redistributive capacity. I think this, as the socialist spokesman said — to whom I thank for his intervention — is something that we have to assimilate to understand, because some of the issues that you constantly criticize when you introduce some kind of cooperage, as in school dining rooms or in other ways, on the part of those who have the most to help those who need it, this is obviously a matter of philosophy in which we do not agree. And the second is that we don't think this is the time, right now that the economy of Galicia is beginning to recover, for a generalized increase in fiscal pressure. Because, in total, you are asking us to go up the IRPF and the heritage — the PSOE even though it overvalues it. But we are also asked to introduce a rise in succession income of EUR 30 million, which we do not know how it could be achieved; in property transmissions of EUR 17 million; a commercial area tax that is not defined; a visual impact tax of telephone lines that is not defined; 20 million; a water green tax that does not define, 5 million; a tax on plastic bags that do not define, 1 million; a tax on nitrous oxide emissions by commercial aviation that do not define, another million; civil protection engravings that do not define by 3 million; and a fight against fraud by more than 20 million. So this is inconcrete and it is also moving to consumers. In Marea I only specify the IRPF, wealth and embalmed water, 46% of its income forecast, overvalued, as we discussed in the Commission, but they also want to impose a large-scale tax that they do not define; recover one and a half million euros of empty housing tax that they do not define; half a million of the sugar tax that they do not define and that will also be state, so autonomous communities will not be able to regulate it, just as it happens with deposits taxes in credit institutions; and they reduce 80 million without specifying the tax benefits and they have only 12 million in the fight against fraud. It's hard to support revenue-based spending budgets, which you don't even define technically how these taxes would be set up. We do not share the underlying economic philosophy, not the time to alter the pattern of consumption that is contributing to Galicia's economic recovery. These taxes, in the vast majority of them, would either transfer to the consumption capacity of families, or to the saving capacity, and obviously to the detriment of growth. So we're not going to support amendments that are based on the background of a generalized prosecutor's office. But there are also specific reasons. They say we don't accept a single amendment, and I understand -- and let me put myself in this plan, but the truth is that I wouldn't want to see myself in your situation -- that it's very difficult to come here with amendments to states of expenditure, try to give a political message -- that I understand they want to give, and the problem is to have it justified in those amendments to states of expenditure. You've spoken of arrogance. I wish I could have accepted many amendments to give continuity to the climate of dialogue that I believe we are having in other areas. But, without any arrogance, let me tell you some questions: First of all, a year's budgeting is difficult. If you have any doubts in the PSOE, ask Abel Caballero, who has not accepted any amendment, and in the Block, the mayor of Pontevedra, who has not accepted any amendment, or in the MP they rule together, where they have not accepted any amendment. If it's difficult to make a deal, ask the Coruña where, even if it's mandatory to make a deal, they're not able to compromise or give in to the approval of budgets. So I don't think I'm going to talk too much about pacts. [[Applause]] It has been said that the Union does not want to make a deal. Mrs. Pontón, I think we are, you know, very happy that the meeting between the president of the board and the mayor of Pontevedra was so good this week, and the words of the mayor of Pontevedra — which we both respect very much — I recall: an agreement and therefore a capacity for dialogue. What about the amendments? By classifying them into four blocks, there are some first amendments that you present, and we can't accept, in which it's about taking out current spending money that aren't plausible. For example, the BNG leaves zero in its amendment 20 to the eventual staff of the Business Council. The mayor of the Coruña said a little bit ago literally: ‘We’ve passed the brake,’ if he regrets having cut so much in cars and advisers. Man, one thing is to cut down, as we did, and to decrease spending remarkably on advisers, and another thing is to leave the counselor — no matter how good — without any kind of advisor, without anyone helping him so much to the attention of picking up the phone. In Amendment 70 to the BNG, they leave no telephone communications to the Economics Council. You'll hardly be able to follow the power supply to the Economics Council if you leave the phone to zero. The PSdeG completely suppresses, in its amendments 64 and 67, a share of 1.2 million euros for computer office material from the Galician judges. And In Marea in its amendment 17 eliminates the maintenance of Monte Pio's residence; that in the campaign it was said to be a public service that was intended to be used in the event of reaching the presidency. Of course, sometimes too, you don't know very well what is suppressed. BNG withdraws in its amendment 1 the money that funds the 300 small centers dependent on the General Media Secretariat that provide TDT coverage to the Greek rural environment. Maybe we should increase the Galician TV audience by suppressing the replicators of rural Galician. There's a second type of amendment that eliminates agency incomes but without removing agency expenses, that is, what they do is they take the money from the transfer that the agency advises but they don't reduce agency expenses. Why? Because those projects that are funded have names and names. This is the case, for example, with Amendments Nos 3 and 5 of the Socialist Party of Galicia and on the 21st of En Marea with Antiga, which they withdraw from between EUR 2 million and EUR 5 million without saying clearly what projects they would stop doing; or in the 40th of the Block, which deducts 50 million of the transfers from the Infrastructure Agency without specifying which work the Infrastructure Agency has planned to stop executing. And more paradoxical, even, is what they do with CIXTEC, than En Marea in its amendment 28 brings EUR 1 million to a plan against the fight against tax fraud, when with that million euros the CIXTEC does it is to develop the computer applications necessary to develop the fight against tax fraud. Well, as you will understand, we cannot approve these amendments. There's a third mechanism, which is to say that things will be done without explaining what's going to happen to the people who are basically thrown away — I understand. For example, in the amendments from 120 to 141 and 297 to 304 of the Block, and 60 to 72 of En Marea — Bloque and En Marea — you withdraw funding from the concerted educational centres, and with these money they do works at public educational centers, museums, linguistic normalization projects. But nowhere is it said that it will happen with the 79,859 students who are enrolled in the concert school, in children, primary and ESO. What do we do with the boys? You could at least say that the amendments, in coherence, are intended to accommodate them in public education, but no, all you do is leave them hanging. And the same with health concerts. All the health amendments from the Bloc and En Marea, 77 to 82 and all those from the Bloc... the block was involved in the government, which increased the number of health concerts by 45%. But, well, by giving it a good idea that it should be withdrawn, if we withdraw funds from health concerts, we cannot devote them to rescuing Vigo's hospital or drug addiction programs unless the patients who are currently going to the concerted hospitals do not have health care. Fourth and last mechanism, which for us is also worrying: to stop fulfilling our commitments. I mean, they spend it on budgets to fund spending commitments from the past. For example, the PSdeG in its amendments from 36 to 57 all kinds of equality plans and improvements in the courts are funded by money that is currently being paid promptly through the Public Investment Society in Santiago and Ourense. In its amendments from 166 to 197, and En Marea in its amendments 56 to 63, they want to announce new road works and do it from withdrawing money from the game that is paying the annuals that began in the two-party years and times of the government. And so also with the EDAR of Santiago, they take transfers to Galician waters that are destined for the EDAR of Santiago to finance the improvement of the EDAR of Santiago. The PSdEG in Amendments 104 to 165, and In Marea in Amendments 52 to 55, what they do is finance expenses by abolishing free-of-charge bus concessions. And the PSdEG in Amendments 394 to 416, when it takes away 6.5 million euros that pay for the completion of the works of the health centres already initiated and committed, do not explain what is going to be done with these works, but they say that other health centers will be done. In fact, you commit even sixty-five social centers and dedicate them to 10.8 million euros, when reality is that it would cost more than 100 million euros. What's this about? Well, a little like today's, and I'm going to mention Sada. In Sada, I'm informed that there is no project to finance, what is a report that does not collect any project and that that report also collects a possible work that Galician Waters has not just seen clearly from an environmental point of view. So it's not a problem now that this issue is being fixed with an amendment but that, at the moment, there is no proper solution, which we, of course, will push to correct the floods in Sada. And said this, what this is about is to go to the people and say that the People's Party voted against something...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u41	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u42	...to make politics with this question. So, in short, it's hard to accept the amendments. I think I would have liked to admit some, even though it was just -- I insist -- to say that we have maintained the climate of dialogue. But when the amendments are made so that they are not approved, when they are done so that they are not accepted because they cannot be accepted, it is very difficult to accept them. And I insist: I don't want to talk too much about covenant themes. But let's do this: when we started the budget debate, we spoke in that debate about the expenditure ceiling, the spokesman for the main opposition group, and offered us a pact of 750 million if we approved the expenditure ceiling; however, in the amendments they make to the budgets they only include 500 million euros of expenditure. I mean, to deal with In Marea I have to approve a expenditure ceiling of 750 million, but they themselves, in their amendments, painting incomes that will not be produced, taxing, raising the tax burden, etc., are not able to raise anything more than 500 million euros. You'll understand that it's difficult to make a deal. You'll understand that it's difficult to make a deal. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] And it's also difficult to make a deal when we've reached agreements in the past. I would like to recall that at the worst moment of the crisis we reached an agreement with the Socialist Party on Types of Heritage Tax, which is, together with the income, where we can really practice progressiveness and solidarity, a property tax that taxes the capital of those most in the time of the crisis. Home!, it seems to rise now by breaking the pact or giving up the pact at the moment we're already overcoming the crisis because it doesn't seem too reasonable either. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I think they made it very difficult to deal with the amendments to the states of expenditure and that's why there were no more agreements. I trust that this does not get the rest of the issues in which we can reach agreements, but, in any case, we — as I said at the beginning of my intervention — are going to vote that yes to the budgets which brought the House together because they are expansive; they are equitable, both through income and through expenditure; they are prudent in their forecasts and therefore compensable; they are balanced, that is, they do not run into deficit; and they are contributing to that, once the recession is abandoned, we can continue to grow and above all redistributing the results of that growth so that no one in Galicia has more problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u43	Thank you, Mr. Puy. The role of the parliamentary groups in defining the amendments of the other groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u44	Well, the truth is, after listening to Pedro Puy, I think that the opposition we have to resign in block because we don't know how to add, stay, we're unable to do a good amendment... and here perfection is in the olympics of the People's Party, which presents us with perfect, divine, unpopular budgets, which will bring happiness to the Greeks and to the Greeks. [[Applause]] We can therefore close the Galician Parliament because, basically, it is to what the People's Party invites us today, which we did not expect from Mr Puy, who, at least normally in the debates, maintains a little more level, and let me tell him from the point of view and parliamentary courtesy. Of course, because, first, it started with dja vu. I believe that the People's Party loves janja vu: either takes us to the Bipartite or brings the debate of the previous year. Well, it seems you miss Mrs. Díaz, it's okay, and I think it's an interesting fact. Then tell us about the next debate, that's good too. Allow me also to tell you that it seems to me a sarcasm that the People's Party, which raised the VAT, the electricity taxes, which brought us up what we paid in the centio sanitary every time we have to get gas oil or gasoline at the service stations, now sell here that it's the ones who lower taxes. Well! Mr. Pedro Puy, I think you should review this theory, and you know, in addition, that this is a clear political and ideological decision, because the fiscal policy that you are doing, on a very important part, is that it is the workers and the workers who are paying more taxes, while large businesses and great fortunes have a clearly abusive tax treatment, from the point of view that they pay much less than the workers and the workers, and that you are betting on regressive taxes like the EVI, that you pay it just as a person who is stopped, who has no income, because you have to make daily purchases, that a gentleman — with all my respects — like Amancio Ortega, who could bring much more from an economic point of view. I also want to tell you that, if the problem of amendments is where money is diverted, there is no problem for us to stop this plenary now and sit down and talk about those amendments in which you really believe it is important the increase we make; and do not make, as I say, this debate an absolutely useless debate. Above all, Mr. Puy, because what they are depriving the Greeks and the Greeks is that we improve the budgets and that the budgets are not unique and exclusively fruit of the People's Party, but they are collecting proposals. I think, of 300, there will be, at least, some sense to collect. I'm also going to start transmitting to the municipalities of this country that the PP feels bad that we have amendments on specific proposals and demands that citizens have. You look obscene. Well, I think that is part of our obligation as Members and Members, and I really regret that this is your intervention. Then he made a revolution over the municipal budgets. Of course, I don't know if the PP, who has a mayorship in a city in Ourense, has since 2014 with the same budgets. I don't know if that's the example at the municipal level, as you understand a good operation. [[Applause]] I don't know if it's Ourense his model and his example. [[Applause]] I, I tell you, very proud of Pontevedra's budgets, we also inform you that many of the proposals have been made since the opposition. Not the way the Greek Government does, which, I say, is the divine government that does not have to accept any proposal or hear anything from anyone. Then I also want to tell you that it seems very good to you that I bother you that I denounce here the scandal that, just in the month in which we have just had a tariff which means that the Greeks and the Greeks are going to pay 6 million euros more in the bill of light, Fenosa answers us with absolutely abusive cuts of light. It doesn't seem normal for you to feel bad for me to report this in Parliament. I also want to tell you that it seems absolutely warm to us the answer you're giving to Galician Union. I just saw in the public information what the Industry Advisor just said. The Industry Advisor doesn't say they're going to sanction the light cuts or because they don't have the electrical tendon right in our country. No, he says he'll see if the protocols are done. Does this know what sounds like to me? Yeah, yeah, it sounds like a story we know here. I don't know if you remember, AP-9. Every time there's big seizures in AP-9, Minister Ana Pastor and deputy advisor say they're going to open a file for Audasa. Ah! Then we'll see what happened to those files, and not a single penalty! We that demand are penalties for Phenosa and that we really don't get any more hair. Because what's not received is that people are 24, 48, 72 hours lightless, losing food, putting people's lives at risk, with great losses to the field sector, and that nothing happens here. Tell us Mr. Feijóo has been calling. To whom, to the president of Iberdrola, with whom was he to inaugurate that just station at a time when Iberdrola was speculating with our resources and trapping them to nurture the light of the Greeks and the Greeks? Look, we've known this story. Will there really be help for all those affected? Will there be a powerful response to continued abuse in this country? And above all, why don't you vote in favour of an amendment so that we have a Welsh electric tariff that destroys the light and ends with our country's energy policy? That's what Mr. Puy has to say to us today, and not come here to teach us a 1st degree of economics, which we really can go to college for. Then, frankly, on the subject of gender-based violence, because it won't give me time to answer each and every one of the questions. In the past legislation was put in place through a BNG initiative — and we continue to say that we will continue to collaborate in everything that is to improve the attention of women victims of gender violence — that this year, in these budgets, there had to be an increase in resources for the wage of freedom. You just need to pass a law and not increase those resources! But it is only two days ago — Mr Puy last week — that we have agreed on an agreement in this Parliament that would increase the means and economic resources to fight against gender violence, because we need greater awareness, more training and wider attention than the one that appears in the budgets of the Galician Union. You despise that agreement and do not accept a single amendment to improve those games. Well, to us, Mr Puy, I have to tell you that this seems absolutely insufficient and that is to start with very badly in relation to a topic that is central to the future of our country, because we are talking about women's lives and we are talking about that we really need gender-based violence policies not to be 0.01% of the budget of the Galician Union, but to have weight and body to change the response of the public authorities to a violence that — I insist — does not cease and that we are really seeing the serious consequences that it has for our country. Then you came here to tell us that we're very well on the subject of poverty because there are places where there are people with more problems. It's always the same argument!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u45	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u46	We take the last of the line and say, as some people are worse, in Galicia we have no problem. Look, I don't know if it causes them at least some kind of reflection — which I think would be important —. They tell us, "Let's go in the right direction, we're getting out of the crisis." And the official data of the Galician board tells us that it has increased poverty when you tell us we're out of the crisis. Then something will happen. Aren't you going to review that model that's generating more inequality, more poverty, more precariousness in our country? Look, these aren't the budgets of happiness or the budgets of perfection, they're the continuing budgets, yes, of a government that's on stand by because, as you've won the elections, you think you have nothing else to do for this country. If they win the election, they don't care about the problems -- they don't care if there's people in unemployment, they don't care about the defeat -- they won the election in the PP, and then you've already achieved your goal. No, politics is about solving people's problems, and who rules, when they win elections, what they have is a greater responsibility. These budgets are more than the same, and they can use them to win some elections, but they're not good for people to get out of unemployment, get out of poverty, or actually bet on a defense of public services. That is why we do not vote, and we regret that they give a welcome to all the amendments to the opposition without dialogue, without sensitivity and without listening to proposals that are serious and sensible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u48	Good morning again. I believe that the speech of the spokesperson of the People's Group tells us something about this debate as well. In the end, he has endeavoured to discuss again what is already closed through the whole debate, which is income. Again he insisted a lot on it. It is not part of this debate, which is just about the state of expenditure; apart from trying to introduce other topics that little has to do with it. The pacts. I was in the budget discussion for the period 2005-2009. In 2005, for example, in the presentation in which Mr Orza was also present — who had just served as a advisers of the People's Party — we did a work incorporating about half of his amendments into the articulated text. And in all the budgets we discussed at that time that so well-known Government presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño — known by the People's Party — there was always an effort to incorporate amendments. In some departments more than in others, it's true, it wasn't the same effort in all of them, but in many departments amendments of the People's Party were incorporated into this debate. In case you can use a reference for a different performance. [[Applause]] On the other hand, the budget... finally, the growth is healthy. Employment growth is particularly bad, in comparative terms, in Galicia; particularly bad. I know we can use indexes of all kinds. When we want to, we compare relative levels. If not, growth rates. And if not, the growth rate of the last year. And we'll end up finding one of the indicators that, compared to someone, is good for us. But this one's clear. Let's compare what's going on in Galicia with the Spanish average, and at least consider ourselves as an objective to place ourselves there, in dynamic terms. And in recent years this is bad, it's not good. The growth rate of 3.4 % of the year 2016 allowed for the creation of 17,000 jobs in Galicia. After four more years, we're going to be under Mr. Núñez Feijóo's engagement. But you do! For the next few years, the government's forecast is that we're going to be between 2 and 2.5%, so the job creation capacity will be substantially below. We have to change the relationship between increasing the product and increasing the employment because, if not, we will not even be able to reach those demands that we put ourselves. The lowest university rates in Spain. But you know with me that university fees are university incomes that aren't joint incomes. If there was a share in the board budget that offset those lower rates and gave more resources to universities, you'd have to assume. But what we're doing with this is putting on a political medal: "we have the lowest rates in Spain," but at the same time reducing the funding of universities; that's what we're getting. Yes, yes, then there's the funding plan, but this is the consequence... No, no, no, yes, yes, but this is the direct consequence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Anyway, I'm not going to bring the amendments -- let me -- because they have a very small font. Amendment No 2, EUR 150,000 in miscellaneous expenditure for exceptional aid to returned migrants; EUR 150,000 in reduced expenditure for this purpose, Presidency Council. I don't know what the problem is so that this can be accepted. Amendment No 80, EUR 2 million of less in intangible investment, Environment and Territory Planning, to strengthen policy in national parks and in natural parks. Of course, you have to tell me what kind of global amount that council has in immaterial investments, and perhaps, from there, these figures don't seem so misleading. I have to insist. In social policy they have to make—because I was a little quick in the previous intervention, which was already running out of time—an additional effort. I know that in this state of expenditure debate our amendments do not cover all the aspects that we would like because there is not enough margin. But social policy is very important. The poverty rate remains unacceptable. And also, in recent years, the absolute number of people at risk of poverty or material deprivation is stabilized. Despite such remarkable growth in economic growth, it is stabilized. And you can't tell me it's because of a statistical effect, because the reference level has been practically the same for six years: euro below, euro above, around 600 euros per month. So there's no statistical problem, it's stabilized. We can't attack the factors that are acting on this. True, the risk increases a little bit, but it comes up with talking to people who are working at the risk to know that they're still having too much time the files stopped, without processing. And that many times, when they get processed, for formal reasons, they go back to the point of departure. And we're, by that way, not giving coverage to people who do need attention. And we're doing it for funding. Because, although there is an increase in this budget, which is welcome, is insufficient. That's why we want to reinforce it a little more with some additional resources. And the clear social policy is not just the Risga, it also means acting with the councils, because it's often the ones who are working on it, giving people the help they need. That's why we've been thinking about strengthening transfers in this direction in relation to the municipalities. And we would not just have to strengthen transfers, we would have to create a stable framework to guarantee the municipalities funding that would enable staff to stabilize and plan in the medium term, because annual agreements are a distortion to that effort. The amendments of the other groups, because that's what this shift is for, isn't it? Then we'll try to do it; very quickly. As a general rule, we are going to support the amendments of the other groups because they go in a similar way. In just four cases, I think I remember, we're going to ask for a separate vote on the amendments either to BNG or to En Marea; basically on the subject of educational concerts. We believe that educational concerts need to be reviewed; and we need to review them with a criterion of necessity and effectiveness. Just where they cover a demand that cannot be met by the public, and they present acceptable results, the concerts must go on. But we're also aware that pacts must be faced, finally, by right. So where there are ongoing educational concerts, we don't think they can attract resources because in the short term that would mean a problem for students who attend these centres. Therefore, on account of our responsibility, we are not going to vote in favour of these amendments. And, by the way, did the educational concerts in the two-party government increase? You know, like me, that was one of the last decisions of the Fraga Government once the elections were already held. A government that in its last days of office had to extend the concerts that were under way for five years, so they increased the educational concerts at that time. [[Applause]] Not everything is wrong, of course; not all your politics is wrong, of course. But we have to be able to do a lot more, and they have to show greater social sensitivity. Today I was very quickly reviewing the economic papers while this debate was taking place, and there were two reports -- one from the other -- that drew attention, but together they give an idea of what you have to change. One news said that the Government of the People's Party in Madrid, Mr. Rajoy's Government, was studying how to paralyze in the Congress of Deputies the proposal for minimum social inclusion income that, driven by the unions, was supported by opposition groups. The second news was asked — I don't know whether with irony or not, it didn't give me time to read the body of the news — whether Arsenio Fernández de Mesa was going to be the next president of Spanish Electric Red. Both cases are sufficiently significant in a way of doing politics that they have to change, and that actually also casts a shadow on what you are doing in Galicia in some ways.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u49	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u50	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u51	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u52	Arsenio Fernández de Mesa may be what you want while we rule the PP, you've already proven it. He was also Manuel Cruz's friend, who was the one who introduced Mr. Feijóo to Martial Dorado. They haven't been friends since childhood, they've known each other since Mr. Feijóo was high in charge of Sergas. That's why he was a friend of Mr. Dorado's, of course, if Mr. Dorado didn't have him as a friend. There's been a lot of writing about it. Mr. Puy, I didn't know you were leading the People's Party in Galicia. You complained that you hadn't come here to talk about who leads in Marea, Mr. Villares. And here comes what leads the Galician People's Party, Mr. Puy? He's Mr. Puy the leader! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] On the other hand, I don't know if I do so much in Parliament. Do you send in Parliament so much that you want to designate who intervenes in Marea every time? I'm not going to repeat, but you've cooled the Box Research Committee for two years because I'm worth it, so you have the right to say who talks and who doesn't. Very good, Mr. Puy. Maybe he didn't have much more interesting to tell. [[Applause]] Yes, he reiterated again what we've heard many times: that you won the elections. All right, nobody denies it, but it's proven that by itself it doesn't solve people's problems. And you come to the conclusion that, as you won, those problems have already disappeared. It's obvious that when you move in defiance, when you move in energy poverty, when you move in social exclusion, it's out of fear of electoral wear. But as you well said here: we don't want to question this pattern of growth. Just said. But we question this pattern of growth, Mr. Puy. Because this pattern of growth generates inequality; it generates poverty; it causes 2,400 annual defeats in Galicia; it makes us the second autonomous community of the state with more energy poverty in an autonomous community that exports 1 out of 3 megawatts of what it produces, right? 14.5% of the homes in this country that suffer from energy poverty, Mr. Puy, how many are they? It's not 100, it's not 500, is it? There are many people who spend far more than 10% of their income paying the bill of light, according to definition, right? And there's a lot of people who can't get warmed up about it. And, above all, we heard Mr. Puy say that our amendments could not be approved because they left people thrown away. Yes, sir, of course it is! Of course they're letting people get away! The same thing you left behind all those people who left the houses, didn't you? The same thing that all these people have left behind... Don't laugh, don't laugh that the story is very serious, Mr. Puy! Yes, yes, to all those people who cannot pay the bill of light, to all those people who had to emigrate because they have no job expectations here and are not friends with Mr. Baltar or the People's Party to place it, as you do, or like Mr. Arsenio Fernández de Mesa. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Those people didn't leave her thrown away, Mr. Puy, while the banks were rescued and the people were defeated, while here they spent 9,000 million public money on cleaning up savings boxes for you to give them to a Venezuelan lord? Didn't he get thrown out to the people? This model doesn't leave people out of it, Mr. Puy? Of course, it's left to people because we cut out educational concerts with private schools. That doesn't matter, it's obvious! You didn't touch him. But you, while you weren't playing the concerts, cut in public education. That does bear it all, doesn't it? That supports those cuts and more. It's a matter of priorities, of course! Leaving people away from the concerts, yes, but all the people who have been cut off in education or in public health, or in the dependency aid, as I said, are real cases. And from charging 400 euros to charging less than 200 a person with total dependence, do you think that's not letting people get away? And that's what you've been doing in successive budgets, Mr. Puy, and what you do again with this one. Then, of course, he had to explain the inexplicable. Mr. Puy is a very intelligent, very well-trained gentleman, but to explain that not one of the thousand and peak amendments tabled by the opposition are accepted because we are very bad in the budgetary technique, it is very difficult to believe, Mr. Puy, very difficult to believe! It's unjustifiable, of course! [[Applause]] He also spoke of Sada; this was in March 2016. I don't know what the People's Party or the Galician Union did about it, what I do know is what the People's Party did in previous years in Sada: generate the problem and, above all, in the flood plan, leave it out and don't make any claims because it stayed out of the flood plan. We have already put forward an initiative for it to be included. That's what the People's Party has done, and now problems have to be solved. And you say, "There's no project!" They met in November with the advisor, didn't there be time for a project and dialogue? No, because it's not a People's Party government, no more or less. Don't come with excuses, that there's perfectly time to solve that problem! The centre for care for people with functional diversity of Ourense, infreded in these budgets. Until your mayor supports this initiative, and you won't support it here! There's unanimity in Ourense to request budget allocation for that center, and you won't support it. Let's not talk more about Ourense. Of course, the budget in Ourense is also scandalous. Then he also talked about income and taxes. Look, you've done what you've done over the years is to aggravate the inequality that is caused by the loss of the weight of wages in relation to business benefits. There's already a first difference, which is that every time wages weigh less. People get less, people get basic services like food, like electricity, like sanitation, and so on, and you think we're good because the poverty rate is lower in Galicia, and something will have to see the autonomic tax on it. No, look, Mr. Puy, don't try to cheat! What has to do with the fact that Galicia's poverty rates are lower than the average state is the highest pension weight. And what I know, you don't pay all the pensions in this country, do you, Mr. Puy? It's the only explanation, it's the only explanation! But that doesn't explain that rate that's measured according to the average income of all the Galicians and Greeks; that, by the way, they've come down, and that also helps them not to have such a poverty rate. What explains that is simply the biggest weight of pensions because we have an older population, not more or less. But that's not an oblivious thing for all those people who continue to pay equal or less, or who are unemployed, to have to pay 17% more in health care, 20% more in education, 31% more in basic supplies such as gas and electricity. And that's not measured by the poverty rate, you know? Or, if not, explain to me how the bills are made. Of course, then he also criticized our revenue proposals. Of course there was some income that was going to be state and then it didn't make sense. You always get ahead of yourself, why didn't you tax bank deposits before the state, for example? Why don't they want to tax the empty houses of the great owners? Why didn't they ever want to raise the tax on large surfaces? Because it's obvious that there is ideology in taxation, and you're privileged to punish each other. And what went up here -- and everybody knows it in Galicia -- is the taxes that affect people below, it's the taxes that affect many people's daily lives. On a diagnosis, he said, if we don't have a common diagnosis, we're just going to put the solutions to him. Of course we have a very different diagnosis! You came here to say that everything is okay, and that you don't have to change these policies. We disagree. We think that for some it's okay, some are already recovered from...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u53	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u54	...called crisis, and there are others who follow very badly, and we put in data. We put down data on defections, put on data on poverty, put on data on energy poverty. For those people, it's wrong. We put in immigration data. For the first time in many years, in this country there were three consecutives of negative migration balance, i.e. more people than they come in. Is that a symptom, Mr. Puy, of a functioning economy? Is it a symptom of a country where there are opportunities if people go and people don't come? What if we have 200,000 people under the age of 16 to 35 since 2008; 200,000 boys less in this country? And not everything is explained by low births, it's explained because many of these people are outside. There was still some news today that Galicia was leading the emigration of people with undergraduates. And you think it's all right. Why are you leaving? Why do they have more adventurous spirit, as that minister said — and he didn't quit, and nothing happened —? Or is it because in Galicia you have no country project, because you have not developed the rural environment, because you have refused to develop the renewables sector, because you have failed in your attempts at industrial policies, etc., and people have nowhere to work or wages do not give them to live? I think this is second.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u56	You've won the elections and therefore everything's fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u57	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's a parliamentary anecdote of a character that was complex, Alan Greenspan, who came to Parliament and said, "I'm going to make it clear, so most likely they don't understand me." I feel something like that, because I said clearly that we're coming out of the crisis, overcome the recession. And what we're talking about is to get -- and these budgets contribute to that remarkably -- that the people to whom the crisis dropped can go out again ahead, and the states of expenditure reinforce that thesis. I just remind them that we're spending a lot more, and now I'm giving them some social figures. Mr. Sánchez, of course, as you will understand, the last thing that concerns me in this life is who is the leader of the tides or whether they are corals or not corals. All I did was verify a data. The spokespersons of parliamentary groups always speak in this debate. I was drawn to the attention of the main opposition group to you, who does it very well. That's why he doesn't need to talk now, because he's done very well. I'm even almost sure — and I don't take it for granted, but as a compliment to our common friend, Mr. Villares — that Mr. Villares would even do a little better than you. But the fact is the fact. Here today the spokesperson for tides, and I don't want to say anything else because you know that's complicated. I, of course, will always respect you, because you know I do. More importantly, I'm going to tell you something: I was very surprised that you first spoke at the 3rd Economic Commission, when they called him running because Mr. Beiras had not come either. But, said this, I'm not going to add anything more than the fact that you talked about today and not the leader of the groups, which is what we did to the other groups. Far from perfection, I never said at any time — I didn't say — these budgets were perfect. I said we couldn't accept the amendments and these amendments didn't improve these budgets, which doesn't mean they're perfect. About the theme tax. The fact is, these budgets today have tax rates that are more progressive than those that were when I was ruling the left. The property tax is higher than when I ruled the left. Income tax is lower for people who have less income than when they ruled the left. So, of course, I understand that this costs you and that you come with amendments that are very striking. But what do you want me to tell them? In Galicia we have the tax on wealth, that is, the great fortunes, of Spain's highest; agreed with the Socialist Party, similar to what is in Andalusia. And we assume it taking into account all the technical difficulties that a tax such as that of heritage -- there are people who are practicing this to go because there are other communities that have zero -- and we share that because we know that we are in a situation where most people have to make a special effort. But of course, to come to talk about wages Mr. Sánchez, to say that the problem is wages, and to bring as a proposal raise the tax on income, it does not cease to be curious. Do you know who the income tax falls on? It saves wages; more than 85% are income from work. And you, as little goes up, which in recent years is improving in Galicia, by the way, through the figures we know, that are participating more in the product than you did before, in the worst moment of the crisis, and they're gaining more as jobs grow and people enter the labour market, you come and bring as a solution, so that wages rise, raise income tax. Perhaps you should do as Mrs Pontón has said and look a little at how the income tax goes, how it affects the labour market and how it affects wages; because, if that is the solution, it is at least contradictory. You brought amendments to raise the IRPF plot to the whole world, up to those who earned more than 12,000 euros, which are the lowest traches of income. So, consequently, I forgive you, but then you don't fix things. That's why we can't accept those amendments. I explained to Mrs. Pontón why we can't accept any amendments. I can't accept an amendment to do anything, however commendable it may be, if you leave me to a council without any expense you're doing. You'll understand that I can't accept that amendment, because saying it's free, but then you have to run the budget. I can't accept that kind of amendment. But what is wrong is to reverse the terms of the debate. I defend an budget that has brought the Government, and you have to tell me, if you want to change the cost, what your priorities are and where you get the money. What's not worth saying is, I'm taking money to do a work and I'm taking it off from the transfer that the agency is doing to the agency that executes another work, not saying another work takes you off. That's the trap! And now he says I'm the one who has to say where I get the money you need to make. I don't know what works. No, it's you, that's the game. I have a budget, I have some commitments, I have some works going on, and you tell me to take some money from those works, but you don't tell me of which, to do others. Man, the trap is yours, it's like this. Home! [[Applause]] In Vigo the People's Party presented 60 amendments, they didn't accept any of them. Here we accept one, and those who know mathematics know that 1 game by zero gives infinite. I'm glad I've accepted at least one, because that means we're infinitely more generous in accepting amendments than the mayor of Vigo. Because being equal would be worrying, at least in this matter. The issue of Ourense is relevant, because I believe that all the groups that we are in this House know that in Ourense what prevents budgets from being approved, and to a large extent it is blocking the city, is the existence of a group that I suppose no one will say that I use the word wrong if I say it is populist. And in front of a populist group that blocks those who had the most votes in the elections, what is the collaboration of the opposition? I'd like to know! If we agree that budgets should be approved for the city to move forward, and in Ourense there's a group that we all call populist, and the evidence is that you don't want to form a coalition to move the most voted party because you don't want to join the populist group, tell me where the opposition in Ourense is responsible. This reflection I think is interesting, and perhaps you can talk to your colleagues in Ourense and tell them, Man!, here at the end of the day who is ruling is who wants us to have a chaos in the city of Ourense, which is a group that paradoxically — tell me what you assume and what you lack — is called Democracy Ourense. [[Applause]] They say they don't leave people untied. The game of amendments is: I take the money from a thing to do something that I consider to be more priority. You take the money out of the concert concerts in education and don't say what's going to happen to the 80,000 students in the concert. And they say they don't let people pull? But what are we talking about? Where's the responsibility? I understand, although I don't share, that you don't want educational concerts to be paid, concerts that now, by the way, are the fault of Fraga, but that after four years they were still the same or more. I mean, then Fraga didn't mind so much if the Bipartite kept them. In any case, said this, do you think they're going to do with the students of the concert? What do we do with them? Where do we put them? If they don't say anything in their amendments, they take the money out of the concerts and propose many very interesting things... I didn't attack any of the objects you intended to make with the money, I just said you didn't know where they were coming from. And the same thing we can say about the health concert. Health concerts are working because there are people who go to hospitals who are in agreement with Joina. What do we do with them? We took the money out of the concert to rescue Vigo's hospital, which is a public hospital, of course, although built by a public-private funding system. We rescued that, and the people who went to the concerted hospitals that we did with it? That's leaving people out, that's what I meant. Mrs Pontón, the Equality Commission has not yet begun. At entry, 30 per cent of the resources against gender-based violence were raised as a result of an agreement by this House that was not unanimous — unfortunately — because there was a group that got out of hand. In any case, Mrs. Pontón, when we talk about these issues of social expenditure, I know that there are reports for all. There's a recent report on the municipalities, about what could be considered as municipalities that had good social services or bad social services. We rule in Galicia 2/3 parts of the municipalities in round numbers, and this report draws four municipalities that have poor social services: one is from the PP -- that is, 25% when we rule 60% of the municipalities -- and the other three are others that don't rule the PP, I'm going to leave it there. Because it's true that all the figures are questionable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u59	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I have here some information on how the spending has evolved in relation to the Spanish average, who has lived the whole crisis in Spain. Galicia, on the average of per capita health expenditure, in 2004 spent 105; in 2009, 103 and in 2013, 106. With regard to the average, we have increased health spending in relation to the other autonomous communities. Education per capita expenditure: 2004, 93; 2009, 99; 2013, 99. I'm sorry, but the figures don't talk about what you say, that we're destroying a lot of issues. Mr. Leicega, I thank you very much for your tone. Certainly, the fees are replaced by the funding plan, and we certainly believe it is better to finance university studies in Galicia through public funding, at the cost of taxes for all citizens, than to increase the rates...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u62	...keeping the bags stable. Finally, I want to say that we're going to vote these budgets, not because they're perfect, not because they're the best in the world. They certainly couldn't be improved with the amendments that were presented to us, but we believe they are the right ones for Galicia. I am -- as I said at the end of my previous speech -- expansive, redistributive, prudent, responsible, and so I want to congratulate the board and thank all the groups for their collaboration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u63	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Articulated debate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u64	We now move on to the joint debate. First of all, round the groups to explain their position on the Commission's ruling and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u65	Good morning to all and to all. From the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group we said in the past full of budgets that this was not just a debate of numbers, but political decisions; decisions about the most powerful tool we have to change, in one sense or another, the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks and build a future of dignity for our country. The very articulate we are debating today lies in this very framework and is preceded by an exhibition of motives, where the Greek Government explains a little about the motivations of the budgets, and, frankly, no longer in that part, in that introduction, we can agree, because it reflects that these budgets are based on an unrealistic analysis of the historical moment we are living and because it is based on a reading that is made thinking about the elites and not the majority. In that statement of motives it was literally said, and it was repeated in the debate that we started again this morning, which was possible to change the trend and that the situation of the crisis has been remanded. I mean, we keep doing that. I wonder if the Greek Government can seriously look at people's faces, out of 375,000 Greek homes that don't even enter an interprofessional minimum wage per month, and tell them that there's no more crisis, that it's all set up. Honestly, I don't understand. Today, in this month of February, the latest data we know of contributions to Social Security tells us that we have 13,000 taxpayers less in our country than when we presented these budgets that we are debating today and finishing their parliamentary procedure: 13,000 less! Can you really look at each of the 212,000 people in unemployment in this country and tell them that this crisis is over? Honestly, since the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we have not shared this reading of the context and we have not shared the superiority of the People's Party, as explained a while ago. Of course, no longer repeats us that thanks to their austerity policies the crisis is over, that will become reality. And not so much repeat that priority is given to social spending, that's going to become reality, and this articulate proves that that's not so; for it also has in its ability to lick them and so they decided not to do it. We understand, therefore, that these budgets and the articulate that introduces them are at the forefront of what this country would need, so we put alternatives on the table in the first part of the debate and also for this part in particular, as stated earlier by companion Ana Pontón. In this same sense, we present 33 amendments to the articulation of the law in the same line, to visualize that a political alternative to the economy that the People's Party presents to us is possible, and to show that it is possible to radically defend basic public services. That's why we present a battery of amendments to the whole articulate, considering it to be an accomplice in budgets contrary to what the people of this country and our people need. I will devote my intervention to stressing, of these 33, the ones that we consider to be most important and of more political substance. So, first of all, we understand that in this articulate, if we lose a chance of gold to work through the public services blur, which should be an unquestionable line for the government group. We defend proposals not to take a step back in the achievements that previous generations have achieved for the rights of workers and workers and that this articulate does not cover up as it should. So, for example, our Amendment No 3 is aimed at making no changes in these budgets in any way to facilitate the achievement of the economic and financial balance that ultimately means cutting down on those basic services that we consider essential, which should therefore be untouchable and which contribute to supporting that state of well-being so in question in our country. With this amendment we intend to shield the expenditure devoted to these basic services, which we have already marked as absolutely insufficient. We present both amendments to the cross-sectional whole, as well as to the partial, amendments dedicated to increasing expenditure in this sense. You accompanied these budgets with a very good advertising strategy, announcing large investments in health and education in particular and that only 2.8 % and 2.9 % respectively, a similar increase to the average. So we have already been satisfied that it is not for us to prioritize spending on health or education and that, therefore, if we have already judged that they were not enough, because much less we can be consistent with an articulate that would cover its reduction in terms of financial balance. That's why we stress the importance of this amendment number 3 to article number 9, of credit adequacy, and allow me to add that it makes even more sense in view of how we have marked the cost ceiling of these budgets, which we have already criticised in our amendments to the whole and which would have allowed us to extend a bit of the expenditure ceiling if this government had not been so in such a hurry and if this government was no longer papist than the pope and accepted that first budget limit which is expected for the autonomous communities. Finally, a cluster of political decisions that we have already evaluated, which for us reflects little country ambition and little will to defend fundamental elements for the quality of life of our people. That is why we ask them to take a turn and accept this amendment and thus prevent short-term policies for the control of deficits from becoming filled with issues as essential as achieving social equality as health or education. Secondly, I would also like to point out our Amendment No 22 to Article 45a, which refers to public-private partnership and public works contracts, which is another fundamental issue if we really want to shield these basic services from this articulation. With this amendment, what we want is to prevent the use of public-private collaboration from serving, continue to serve to deliver services and public infrastructure to private hands, thus mortgageting the German Fair with economic and political decisions that are not only for this mandate but for the next, thus hypotheseing the chances of maneuvering that we will have future political generations when we can move them from government. With this amendment, we are beginning to address a question that concerns us, and not only, as you know, but the Court of Auditors itself has expressed critical concern about the abuse of this mechanism, about this kind of public-private collaboration, for increasing non-financial indebtedness as well as the uncertainty it generates about the future sustainability of public finances; a concern that the Government of Greece says it has in the justification of budgets, but then does not act accordingly. So, to avoid it, as I said, since BNG we propose that we cannot use this mechanism to fund basic services in the vigil of this law. In addition, we have included a concrete proposal so that in no case can be satisfied with the concessionaire above the financial cost of what would have cost the Administration that infrastructure in the event of its own taking over the financing directly. So we want to stop doing business through public infrastructure and have to keep complaining in this House cases like that of Vigo Hospital, which would cost us 450 million and that we already have more than 1,000 and that already in this own budget for 2017 nearly 42 million are planned for that destination. And I would like to remind you already at this point that Junta has also made spending commitments because of this type of collaboration that amounts to more than €2,857 million by 2040, of which 135 correspond to us this year that we have already begun. It is also good that in the economic report it is said that it is not intended to resort to this type of financing anymore, but of course, if there is no expression of a firmer will in itself, because we are allowed to question it. Also within the framework of this philosophy that I have just described, we have presented other complementary amendments aimed at safeguarding the purely public. For example, speaking of teaching, in our amendment 23 we intend to limit the Union concerts and that we cannot in any case increase the number of concerted units in the educational centres that we already have in our country. At this point I am referring to, the teaching, which I have stopped introducing some of the questions of the many amendments that we have tabled concerning workers and public workers, there are concrete elements of this articulation that are the clear evidence that there is no will to return all their rights despite the propaganda being made of extra pay. That is why we, for example, in Article 29, to which we tabled Amendment No 18, want to delete that paragraph which introduces the German Government to facilitate the recruitment of part-time interim professors. We think that this is a back door that uses Galician board to continue precarious the condition of new people who enter the teaching function and do not shield a service that should be basic and in which both professionals, students and parents and mothers denounce the insufficiency of hours, the excess of the ratios, and of course reduce the days because it is a bad way. We understand that public services are not supported by naming them, but rather by providing them with resources, and that one of the most valuable is the staff that composes them. It's very good to congratulate you in this House, we congratulate you too, but we understand that much remains to be done. That's why we tabled a number of amendments to return their economic rights and to increase, for example, in the overall of 3% of the forthcoming wages in December 2016, or issues such as providing a social action fund worth 1% of the salary mass in chapter I, or betting on restoring the volume of workers and public workers prior to the crisis and overcoming the rate of 100 percent replenishment in those services that we believe are elementary. On the other hand, several of our amendments respond to social concerns that we understand exist with regard to corruption, which continues to have very high levels in our country. Other proposals are also supplemented by amendments to section 6 which have already been discarded. And, for example, I would like to stress the creation of the Office of Budgetary Control, which is again rejected by the People's Party, and many of them which are geared towards easing the deadlines we have for information in this Parliament itself. We were talking at the previous point of the People's Party's knee, of that rule already established in the functioning of this Parliament, since the arrival of Mr Núñez Feijóo to the Government, but, as in all rule, there is an exception. So, in this articulation to the BNG, we are pleased to be the only deserving of the fact that the Government of the People's Party accepts an amendment; so I'm going to stop explaining it a little; an amendment that we thank, I hardly know how to quote Lina Morgan and excited and grateful, since this Parliament often seems like a spectacle more peculiar to Cine de Barrio than a tool of democratic control. So the amendment that the People's Party accepts us in the 21st century is to reduce the information process to the 3rd Commission of this Parliament from thirty days to fifteen. We are happy and happy that you accept this amendment, but, of course, we also understand that there are many others who would not accept anything else, such as Amendment No. 28, which also aims to reduce a quarterly period by month and something so triggering in the middle of the 21st century to provide digital support information so that opposition groups can work in that control of the Government. Finally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u66	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u67	...—Yes, Mr President—for advancing, as in other years, the difference between the other parliamentary groups, we have included all our fiscal proposals in amendments to the Law on tax and administrative measures. There have already been some advances in this House in the past debate and in the position with regard to the other groups, I will focus a little on the fiscal and administrative issues that we propose, although some have already been leaving the previous debate. So, basically these amendments that we present to the articulated are making a strict bet to shield the spending of basic services and human resources. It is also complemented by questions relating to local corporations and to deepen greater transparency and our amendments also to article 2, which propose to modify those amounts recorded in the states of expenditure and income, to make clear what comrade Pontón indicated at the first point: that another political model and other policies are possible. For us – – we have said – these budgets are a mere curtain of smoke that hides behind a government that merely accepts the austerity policy that is imposed upon it also from the central state, the reformation of self-government and that lacks any kind of ambition to write a different future. Then, on the next occasion, I shall refer more slowly to the proposals we make in the field of taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. On the part of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, to set its position on the dictatorship and defend its amendments, Mr. Losada Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u69	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor of Fairy. I want to start with a quantitative data, and then I'll move on to the qualitative one. In fact, the People's Party has 41 Members, a majority in this House, the Government of Galicia and 676,676 votes, 47.53%; that is, there are 53% of the citizens of this autonomous community who have not voted them to you and who have every right to feel represented in the budgets that are approved in this House. It is not worth the argument of the 41 Members, because indeed – I insist – they do not even reach 50% of the votes. But finally, I guess the data knows, but it's good to refresh it from time to time. Let's move on to the quality. We're moving forward a little today, Counselor. You were talking about management models and the company institute was out of hand today and Mr. Puy jumped and no longer talked about management, he talked about philosophy. The truth is, the ontological inability on the right to talk about ideology to me has absolutely fascinated me; that is, they come here to do philosophy, to make management. No, no, they don't come to do anything like that. Budgets are political ideology. If they are ashamed of their own, if they have problems of consciousness, if they have problems of some other kind, they solve them, but they don't try to fool citizens, because philosophy — and I'm going to read exactly what it means according to the Royal Academy Dictionary — is a "set of knowledge that seeks to establish, rationally," — you see Arsenio Fernández de Mesa — "the most general principles that organize and guide knowledge" — you can still see— "of reality, as well as the sense of human work". Mr. Puy, we're not talking about philosophy here. Finally, he's making some reference to the general analytical framework, which has passed from management to philosophy. I hope that in the speech at this point of the day they end up in ideology. The Socialist Group has tabled 48 amendments, with little success. They didn't accept us. The truth is, I felt discriminated against in relation to the BNG. They were so lucky they accepted an amendment. In fact, I certainly needed emotional support. I will, let us say, reflect on groups, which have to do with different issues. The first has to do with the issues of transparency and good government. Amendments 2, 8, 9, 10 and 11 on the need for instrumental entities to report to Parliament, on the need to base budgetary changes and to avoid that from which the funds of the electric ticket end up financing a study paid by the Board on the impact of the advertising of the Union itself is not well known in whom, I suppose, on the electoral market, I suppose, at the bottom of the electoral market, because, of course, this humble alternative — let us say — of the objective of research was not clear, but it is also possible that it is a defect of the honourable Member. The 9th and 10th have to do with the management of European funds, which have very low levels of execution; I have always talked here, and especially in Commission 6th, about the need for patience; any European programme at zero is like Big Ben; in fact, it has 0% executed, but the evil is when the moment of closure of these European funds is approaching and the execution continues at 20%, 25% or 30%. And finally, Amendment No 11, which has to do with corruption prevention mechanisms. Another block has to do with social policy priorities, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. We try to show, within this legislative initiative put forward at the Congress of Deputies, a unique package to fight against social exclusion and poverty, on issues of energy, on subjects of dependence, on subjects of freeness and textbooks, on subjects of scholarships, on subjects of risk, in fact. To me, of course, I am pleased, on the one hand, to increase the risk, of course. And I wish management was better, but I want to remind you: Risk is the manifestation of the failure of the economic, social and labor policies of this government. I don't know what's going on in Andalusia, but, of course, I insist: Risk is the symptom of failure. [[Applause]] Another block has to do with public services in relation to social policy priorities, because there was a very interesting intervention by Mr. Puy — as almost always — on taxation issues and co-workers. Mr. Puy, we disagree, and I suppose it's ideology. I don't want you to pay for textbooks, nobody, because it's the only way to guarantee universal rights. [[Applause]] What I want is that the rich in employment income, in capital income or in wealth pay progressive taxes to pay books all over the world. See if you understand, it's pretty easy. And if not, explain here – – you can leave the ideology aside and talk about management, finally, the voicer that touches you, or talk about philosophy – why don't you want that alternative, if it's really not ideological, of course! I think it's ideology, and I'm also very proud of it. Essential public services: 12, 13 and 14. It is necessary to overcome the restoration rates, especially in health care and education, because there are real problems with overdemands, especially in health care, which are not being adequately satisfied. Here we're talking about the emergencies of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, I'm sure there are logistical problems, there are problems of many kinds, but when the Personal Board says that, where there were ten people of health care in a given service or in a given section, and now there are seven, because undoubtedly the care pressure on these seven people, however much they work and as much as they try – – that they do – makes it difficult and makes the assistance provided worse. I think it's pretty easy to understand. Next block: Amendments 15, 16 and 17, recovery of the purchasing power of public workers. In fact, less than all of those who, as politicians, should set an example, who are the president, senior officials and members of the board of directors of certain public business entities. We believe that this sample is important in terms — let us say — examples of commitment to an economic situation, that despite these data on GDP growth — which I recognise, because they are published — of 3.4% to 3.5%, many people are not being favoured or benefited from that level of GDP growth. On the subject of the board of directors, the truth is that I am now seeing the photograph of the Board of Directors of the Vigo Free Zone Consortium, and there is a member who I have real interest also in knowing what part of it is, and I am sure that the spokesman can tell me and, finally, we can exchange some opinions; a relevant member of the People's Party until he is no longer in the People's Party. We move on to amendments to economic governance: Amendments 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27, which have to do with issues of transparency, with issues of evaluation of investment projects, with procurement files greater than EUR 3,000 — which should be referred to Parliament — controls on direct grants, justifications for such aid and the obligations of beneficiaries of such aid. I believe it is essential that citizens not only know what is granted, what is agreed upon, or whether there is a grant or help, but what is the public return or the return to the society as a whole of that aid. Amendment No. 28 is the amendment in which we limit public-private collaboration to non-essential services. So we have these systems for financing health and education. In the same way, in 29 we limited the educational concerts. We think they're there, they're a reality, at some point they helped solve supply deficit problems in the education system, but we think it has to be the public education system which has to progressively meet the growing demands that may exist in educational terms. Amendment No. 30 on advertising and propaganda costs. I think if they were moderated, they might not have to do research on the effect of it on the electoral markets, and it was a small saving. Then Amendment 31, on unconditional funds for the local administration, which we consider also relevant. At 33, 34 and 35 they have to do with the speedy release of the liquidation of previous budgets and the levels of execution of previous budgets. 35 has to do with a Parliamentary Control Office, which could or should depend on the Galician Parliament, which would guarantee its independence or at least help to guarantee it, taking into account the majority of the People's Party. I'm almost always a supporter of qualified majority. The 36th, which has to do with the industrial floor, a serious problem that lives with special intensity in the south of the autonomous community and which has not just had solutions — let's say — powerfully, or put forward powerful solutions from the Greek public domain. And the metaphor is still PLISAN; the hole follows there, the migratory birds continue to nest in it, it has fifteen meters of depth, it is true that minor works are being done on the edges of PLIAN, but I invite the People's Party Members to take a walk between Salvaterra and the Snows, and bearing in mind that, when we speak of this in the previous legislation, the Greek Government said that it would be practically in six months urbanized; of course, for more than six months we have spoken; I insist that it is a politically interesting journey, I do not know whether it is interesting in terms of philosophy and management, but in political terms, to see what is the incompetence and incapacity of a government, I think it is paradigmatic. We also call for an increase of 5% of the outstanding benefits for beneficiaries of non-contributory pensions and allowances. We also ask that we abandon the mirrorism of computer science, and this is not a fordist speech to destroy machines, not machines. I think in health, technology is very important, computer science is very important, but it can't be that the biggest financial efforts go there and don't go to staff costs. And the doctors themselves don't say so, this Member, that he really doesn't know too much about the field. Also in Amendment No. 40, in the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service, defending workers' rights, deleting that article. Also in 41, deleting an article on supplementary educational resources, as in 42. And finally, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47 and 48 are amendments to the explanatory statement, because in our opinion the explanatory statement draws a clearly optimistic and disconnected vision of reality, of what this country is right now. Indeed, the data published — I said earlier — are there, 3.5 % growth in gross domestic product, but the situation of the country and the situation of citizens is also there. There is virtually nothing of the international context, nothing of the external demand, nothing of the internal demand. We're seeing how, ever since the budget was discussed and taken into account, the IPC has been shot by a fact I don't know whether it's conjunctural or structural, related to the price of energy, which causes the loss of purchasing power by public salaries, by public pensions, etc. So this I understand will have something to do with the domestic demand of the country and therefore something to do with the behaviour of the gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u70	Two minutes, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. And I'm going to finish talking about employment and inequality, and I'm going to end talking about the whole of Spain. I know that Andalusia is a sort of Dante hell, perfectly approved to Guinea Conakri, but I'm going to talk about Galicia and the Spanish ensemble. And I'm starting by talking about Galicia, about last year's data, that is, fourth quarter of 2015 and fourth quarter of 2016. The number of persons employed in the set of Spain grew by 2.3 per cent; in the set of Galicia by 1.7 per cent; it grew by 2.3 per cent; it was higher than 1.7 per cent. And the number of unemployed fell in Spain as a whole by 11.3% in the last year, and in Galicia by 8.3%; it decreased by 8.3 minus 11.3. I say it because then you come here with data, taxes and other souvenirs. But I repeat again: EPA data, which I can provide without any problems. I'm not going to enter into what contracts were signed this year, how many workers are under the minimum wage, at last, all this that you've read in the media. But if I want to end up with a data that also comes from EPA, and that's a data that has to do with homes with no income whatsoever. In Galicia last year, 13.1% — Counsellor, from 32,800 to 37,100 — is a rule of three simple: 13.1% — while in Spain's whole, 12.6%, 25 points of difference. But I'm going back, I've been going since the series started -- understanding that it's homogeneous -- published by the National Institute of Statistics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u73	It's over, Mr. President. From the third trimester of the year 2009 to the fourth of 2016, the number of households with no incomes in Spain has grown 21%, and in Galicia, 88%; 21%/88%. I'm not saying it's the only reason, but some headline like this, Counselor and People's Party gentlemen, I'm ashamed: "It made him breast-feed in Madrid with the fulfilment of the deficit." Won't you have something to do with that deficit compliance with that increase in homes that don't have any income? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u74	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, to set its position on the dictatorship and defend its amendments, Mr. Lago Peñas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u75	Good morning. Parliamentary Group in Marea has tabled and maintained in this plenary 25 amendments to the Budget Bill for the 2017 financial year. They are balanced, reasonable, well thought-out amendments, and they defend themselves. I am sure that the majority group of the House, which has the power of decision, has studied and valued you, and that's why we don't need to defend each one's kid now. Even more, as we already know that the majority group of the House is going to reject them, say what I say here, I'm going to take better advantage of the time for all to make a reflection that helps us all to change the budgetary strategy in what remains of legislation. That is the will: to provoke reflection on Members and Members of the majority group, knowing that today they will refuse what we propose, but it is best for them to meditate and, as far as we are concerned, other agreements are possible. The first reflection is the need for the budget to stop being a simple accounting exercise, which is limited to matching figures that most of them are taxed from the Ministry of Business. On the contrary, budgeting should be a strategic planning exercise that defines the strategy needed to address the needs and problems of the economy and of the Greek society. And this 2017 budget is not that. I'm going to set an example. These accounts are built on a macroeconomic framework that when the People's Party votes the budget is already passed, will not correspond to reality. A fact proves it. The budget is built on an IPC forecast of 1.2%, but in January 2017 inflation is at 3%, and this has very significant consequences, both for income and expenditure. On the income side, because that 3% increase in prices would increase nominal GDP to 5.4 per cent, and that would lead to an increase in the taxable base of all tax figures and an increase in collection, at least in nominal terms. On the side of expenses, it happens exactly the opposite. Inflation is a perverse tool for applying cuts, in appearance, harmless. In particular, these cuts will affect the situation of employees and public employees, especially in their wages. Public employees have been on their frozen salaries for years, losing purchasing power. Well, the inflation rebound to 3% poses a new threat of exacerbating the wage devaluation that has suffered since 2009. The speech of the outbreak of the crisis, the party in the Faroe to celebrate that we have already left the recession, the idea that we return to the previous level of GDP, that the cuts are over, should be transferred to the recovery of public employees' rights and wages. And yet budget is exactly the opposite: there's a zero increase in public employees' salaries, there's inflation at 3%. And that means that in 2017 – the fourth year of recovery – public employees start the year by losing 3% of their real wages. That's the reality. [[Applause]] For the second reflection I will ask permission from the People's Party, because he has again used a figure that is reference for them — for me, no —: Christian Montoro, the Minister of the Fairy; what he says he is supposed to have credibility in his group. On January 26, the Ministry presented a report entitled Tax Policy Strategy, which explains the evolution of the Spanish economy and serves as a reference for the elaboration of the State's general budgets. In this report, the Ministry says not only that the GDP level in 2017 will be what was before the recession, but that the tax collection, the tax revenues of the state as a whole will be in 2017 at the previous level of the recession; and in fact, it literally says that in 2017 it is when the maximum tax collection is reached in the state as a whole. In particular, the Ministry quantifys, Mr. Advocate of Fairy, in EUR 14,630 million the increase in the collection of 2017 compared to 2016; growth in which IRPF revenues are outstanding, which will increase by 7.5%, and above all VAT, which will increase by 9.3%. In view of this data, it is impossible to understand the estimate of revenue that is made in the budgets of the Galician Union. I'd like you to pay attention. How can it be explained that tax revenues will rise in 2017 to 7.8% in the state as a whole while the forecast for Galicia is an increase of 1.1%? How is it possible for the Ministry to consider that the collection of the IRPF will increase by 7.5% in the state as a whole and that the Galician Union says that it will be only 1.9% here? How is it possible, how is it explained that VAT in the state is going to increase by 9.3% in relation to 2016 and here by 2.8%? President Feijóo said a few days ago that on the subject of AVE, he wasn't wrong. Well, with the estimate of revenue in the 2017 budgets, more than in the face of a mistake, we'd be faced with a scam, which can be quantified. Galicia's participation in the distribution of funds of the autonomous financing model is around 7%. Therefore, if the collection of tax figures that nurture the autonomic financing model will grow to 14,630 million in 2017, Galicia should receive —7% — 1,022 million euros more than in 2016. And yet — I do not know whether the Members and the Members of the People's Party know the figure, I mean, the figure of increasing revenue in the Budget Project is EUR 79 million. How is it possible that the tax collection in the state as a whole will grow to EUR 14,630 million and that Galician participation varies only to EUR 79 million? Montoro's lying, is he telling a movie? Isn't that true? Are we in the face of a deception or a scam? Well, I know -- you don't have to tell me in the answer -- that the legal rule on budgeting obliges Junta to incorporate into its budget what the Government tells you is the advance account. That's why I say it's a simple and common accounting exercise: the matches that the minister told them and they make the budget. But in this case the reflection goes further, because the determination of the contents of advances to account is a perverse instrument that obliges to impose cuts in public expenditure. Once caught in the power shirts of the expenditure ceiling and the breakdown of the deficit, it's enough to estimate the downside of the advances to the account for the budget to frame: you have to reduce the expenses. But this perverse strategy in 2017 -- let's say -- its maximum level of perversion. That document — which I suppose the advisor will have — on page 15, says tax revenues will rise to EUR 14,613 million. But do you know I pick it up on page 39? That the advances to the account that finance the autonomous communities are frozen. And you know why? Because that is the instrument that the People's Party is using to blackmail—politically, it is understood—self-governments governed by different parties to force them to support them and approve their 2017 budgets. In any case, I would like to hear that explanation, the explanation of the Government of Greece, in that huge difference between what is going to increase the collection in the state as a whole and the resources that will reach Galicia. With the answer to that question, I will conclude that we are faced with a central government deception or a scam with the complicity of the Galician Union. The third reflection is of the greatest importance, because the line that gives coherence to our amendments is part of a radically different hypothesis from that of the People's Party. In Galicia we don't have an over-expenditure problem, we have a low-income problem. We have not a state of excessive well-being, but poorly funded, and therefore the strategy cannot be to cut and continue to cut, but to look for alternatives to increase income. The neoliberal mantra of over-expenditure, which seeks to justify austerity policy, which materializes in the cuts, is false. The problem of deficit and indebtedness in which the Galician Union and the rest of the public administrations are not due to excessive expenditure, but to a problem of lack of income. It is not my opinion, the tax policy strategy paper says that government revenue in Spain amounts to 38% of GDP, while on average the European Union is 46.2%; 8.2 points of GDP, equivalent to 86,000 euros, which also solve the deficit problem. And avoiding cuts would give the model of self-financing enough. In the specific case of Galicia, non-financial income, in homogeneous terms, increased from EUR 9,416 million in 2008 to EUR 7,906 in the 2017 budget; this means a 16% drop in nominal terms. Now, this figure, when we take into account the price change since that year — from the beginning of the year — is a real reduction in public resources that the Union uses by 28% in real terms; in absolute values, 2,650 million euros. It's a brutal drop in income, and, in the face of that brutal drop in income, the People's Party in Government reacted with two measures: on the one hand, cutting public spending, and, when it didn't arrive, it was indebted. And here I have to talk about Mr. Puy's amazing intervention. I really can't understand it. I have friends around that say that cutting the welfare state's benefits is in the People's Party's DNA and that this is part of the neoliberal right-wing work: liquidating the public. And I was willing to think that no, that the cuts that applied the PP didn't do them because yes, but it did them because he dropped his income; as there's less income, I have to spend less. [[Murmurs.]] And I was willing to think that the People's Party was in that logic. But today Mr. Puy comes here, he makes a few accounts and tells us that we have the same income we had in the year 2008. All they've done, all the spending cuts, the investment decline, the reduction in salaries of public employees, the lowest salary in health and education services, are you due to the drop in income? The indebtedness in which the Galician Union incurred, the 7 billion euros in which they indebted us, is it because there's less income or is it disturbing to bother? Or is it the neoliberal prejudice to liquidate the public? [[Applause]] Mr. Puy, you have to clarify: or there's less income, and that's why we cut ourselves and we owe ourselves, or, if we have the same income -- that account that makes, that's wrong, and then I'll explain why -- why is it cut? It's in the People's Party DNA, it's your job.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u76	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u77	I'm going to finish. In our opinion, the Budget Project for 2017 is restrictive and therefore continues the path of adjustment and cuts, which, together with the exhaustion of external factors, will cause an intense slowdown in economic growth, which at the end of 2017 will be below half of 2016; an budget that reduces the CPI by 3%, in real terms, the resources devoted to public services, benefits, social protection and capitalization of the country. In the face of resignation, cuts and permanent adjustment, we demand a policy, an ambitious position of the Galician Union, with the objective of increasing income, with the objective of financing an economic policy that drives growth, transforms growth into economic and social development, pushes the productive economy and transfers the greatest wealth to the well-being of citizenship, combating inequality, precariousness, poverty and exclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u78	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Villares, you must update the argumentary of the En Marea Group, it cannot be that year after year your group always comes with that speech. It's very soft, very well known: liquidate everything, austereness, cuts, we attack the state of well-being... Hey! How is it possible in a budget that rises 3% against that of the previous year? 200 million euros more than in 2016, 600 million euros more than in 2015. Who's cutting? Not us. Mr. Villares, update your speech and argument to your group. I think we've just heard an intervention that perfectly portrays what the attitude, behavior, the argumental line of this opposition is. We have been discussing budgets for a month in this Parliament and, despite the fact that since the majority parliamentary group in this House we have been holding the hand of opposition on repeated occasions to reach agreements, the only thing we have found is that, precisely that: three minorities who are installed in confrontation and in crism. The three minorities — the Power Tides, the Galego Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party — are upset, and they are upset because they find budgets that prioritize job creation, prioritize the growth of our economy, encourage our productive sectors, improve our country's public services and therefore take their catastrophic speech. That's reality, and they can't stand it, they can't accept it, because they keep thinking that the worse it goes to Galicia, the better they can go to you. That's the attitude of opposition from the Tides of Podemos. And you know what happens? It is unfortunate that I thank you for having good data from the EPA—there they are—; you are sorry that the GDP growth figures are around 3.5 per cent; you are ultimately at a loss of every success of the Greeks, because they are collective successes, not of a government. But you're against everything. Look — as we have told you on numerous occasions — they have tried to attack the fundamental axes of accounts that continue along the good path taken by this government during these years of crisis, and which, by the way, they have an electoral backing — as Mr. Abel Losada well recognized —. Here we all looked at each other on September 25th, some of us approved and others suspended, and I'm not going to tell you which group they are in. Look, honestly, this group we'd like to face up to some opposition groups that were reasonable, that were constructive, that were responsible, but we didn't find it; we looked at each of the groups and we found absolutely nothing of it. The main problem with your arguments is that you've been defending budgets in this House for a month, alternative proposals starting from a mistake. His mistake was to present alternative budgets with unreal income figures and then they want to spend all that money. Any German knows that if in a family you enter 1,000 euros, you can't spend 1,500 euros every month. All the Greeks know, all the families know, except the families of the Marea de Podemos, the families of the PSOE and the Nationalist Block Galego. And so we find ourselves in this debate with which the BNG says that the Board has to spend 135 million euros more, we find that the Socialist Party says that the Board has to spend 370 million more and we find some powerful tides that want us to spend 500 million more. In total, if we bring together the three minorities that make up the opposition, we find that you come here in block proposed that we spend another 1 billion euros. And where do those billion more come from? Two of the contributor's pockets. You're the ones who propose it's a real knife to the current accounts of the Greeks and the Greeks. That's his policy. And how do you intend to collect those 1 billion more euros? By raising the types of IRPF recording, by inventing taxes such as large surfaces, which are traveled by the courts and which, therefore, the only thing that would generate is legal insecurity. I know that Mr. Villares doesn't care what the courts say, but to us, man! for now... and what they're trying to do is to calculate up and down in the collection with certain uncalculated taxes and show where the calculations are. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In short, a genuine proposal from the point of view of budgetary technique. Not to mention that many of the amendments that you propose directly contravene basic state legislation and that are therefore impossible to pass because they would be impossible to execute. We do not know whether their proposals are based on ignorance — which may be — or whether they are intended to create a situation of legal insecurity that would eventually lead Galicia to a situation of paralysis and slowdown. I want to think it's the first: pure and harsh ignorance. Well, gentlemen of the Galician Nationalist Block, the truth is that it surprises your speech. They have denied the crisis, now they deny recovery, but they have to admit that Galicia is doing much better today than when there were advisors to the Nationalist Block of Galicia; much better, much worse than they care about. We're not going to comment at this point on their obsession with leaving sheets, their obsession with leaving office materials, their obsession with cutting the phone to different advisories. That is what they propose in various amendments they have tabled, absolute rigour — that is what we have already said in a committee. Nor will we remind them that they wanted to take 30 million out of the countryside — that is why they say they care so much — nor will we remind them that they also wanted to cut 30 million euros into a game that is destined for health centres. That's what we've talked about in the various committees. What I would like to comment on today is his pursuit mania for a concept, which is the concept of private enterprise. Look, everyone knows — thank you — of the Marxist-Leninist inspiration of BNG, and that, therefore, we all understand that you aspire to have a planned economy — that is, your model — in which there should be no entrepreneurs and in which there should be no BNG, as a single party — that is what you aspire to — who controls the ownership of the means of production. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the only way we can understand that they're calling for all the games to be removed from all the councils that carry an epigraph that is, "transfers to private companies" -- that was fatal to you, and what they said is, you have to take it off, this sounds really bad. You know what's going on? That, by removing these transfers to private companies, you have eliminated aid to young entrepreneurs, you have eliminated aid to small businesses installed in rural areas, you have eliminated the payment of insurance for farmers and livestock, which you need so much at the moment. That's your attack on private companies. [[Murmurs.]] There's the BNG, depicting him every day. [[Applause]] You want to end public-private collaboration, too, because that's bad, it's bad. When they ruled you, it was very good, but not now. And in that attack on concerted education, you don't care about those 5,487 teachers of agreed teaching who would lose their jobs if we voted in favour of their amendments. Are we wondering why we don't vote in favour of your amendments? Because they're harmful to Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, Mr Losada, the truth is that this is a step: at last they recognize the electoral defeat, 47.5% of the vote we have achieved in the elections of September 25, and I suppose it will not happen; we have 41 Members, you have 14, and I think it is good that for the first time they recognize the smallpox they have submitted to the Socialist Party these elections, in which, of course, the People's Party has won the elections and you have become the third political force, a tragedy of this Parliament! But, of course, I understand that it's difficult to be a socialist in the times that run; you made a claim in defense of Mrs. Susana Díaz, I suppose it's an explicit mandate of Mr. Abel Caballero, and does well, does well to obey your boss. But, speaking of its amendments, look, most of its amendments are divided into two groups: those who ask the Board to do what we are already doing — that is reality — and the latter, those who ask the Board to allocate more resources to something that is already destined for everything that is required. Then they have a battery of amendments that is absolutely delusional -- you talked about them. They want us to withdraw from the text of the law which the Union has followed in these years criteria of efficiency, of expenditure effectiveness, to consolidate economic recovery; they want us to withdraw from the text of the law which the Union has reinforced its commitment to social spending this year — and that is what we have done, precisely what we have done— and they want the expression "metro-terrestrial area" to be introduced, for example, that this must be another charge of Mr. Abel Caballero. And then there's the topic of advertising and propaganda, which you're talking about. Look, today we spend 40 percent less on advertising and propaganda than when the socialists were ruling here and you were head of the office of Mr. Pérez Touriño, 40 percent less. Therefore, lessons, the right ones. None of his proposals seek to improve the quality of life of the Greeks and no one seeks to improve the Government's action. By the way, I'm sorry to bother you. Look, indeed, in Galicia, the number of busy people increases; in Galicia unemployment decreases by 8.3%; in Galicia 8 out of 10 contracts are indefinite and the full day, and I'm sorry that bothers you. Let's go with the Tides of Podemos. You speak of deception, Mr. Lago. I have to tell you that a mistake, a scam is to account for revenue in budgets that soon does not come, spend them, and that there is finally a hole of 2,000 million euros, that this is what left the Bipartite, of which you were also advisor, in the period 2005-2009. I'm glad you're now a fan of Mr. Montoro, but don't worry, that if the Union gets more income, it'll incorporate them into the 2017 budgets. We, of course, are not going to account for revenues that are not insured, because to be less rigorous and less serious are already the Tides. We don't leave our wonder with you. You estimate 500 million euros more spending, but all your estimates are based on opinions, not calculations. You increase your income by 500 million euros, but they don't say where they're going to come from, in poisons, in poisons, that's reality. You're talking about a review of the financing model, but a review that won't take effect until 2018; so you're proposing a 500 million-euro hole. That is done when you rule; with us, of course, it is not done. That's how you worked. [[Applause]] I'll give you an ad. We're not going to copy the irresponsibility model and the block that you're implanting in the places where they rule. We're not going to approve budgets like in Ferrol, like in Coruña or Santiago, where they don't approve them. We work from rigor, from solvency and from stability. You have come to this Parliament to teach lessons in social policy, when we've seen that you can't help school lunchers, you're not able to put in basic incomes that you promise, you're not able to maintain collaboration with care institutions to disadvantaged people unless you direct them to people from the tides. That's you. You come here to give lessons in economics, when you systematically vote against all the projects that aim to boost the creation of wealth in our country. You come to this Parliament to give budget lessons, when they've been giving unqualified shows for years and a half in cities like Ferrol, La Coruña or Santiago. All of this has a very simple explanation, you know? And I will not give it to you, on behalf of the People's Group, even if we've been warning you for months. Look, in explanation, a lady, Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, gave it to her last week through the press: "Yolanda Díaz asks In Marea to leave to someone the internal concerns and focus on people's problems." Listen to Mrs. Yolanda Díaz for once. You are very concerned here about the driver, the secretary, to see if we remove the orders from the Galician Nationalist Block, how many are in the directive and what current they are, whether Villares can be spokesperson or not, but today, in the most important debate of the year, he is not allowed to speak. Look, that's what they're interested in, they don't really care about the budgets this year 2017. But don't worry: they worry as little as the rest of the opposition groups. We are not going to support your amendments, because they are filled with a rosary of errors of bulk, of inaccuracies, of contradictions, and therefore we are not going to be on that task. We want to think that all those mistakes are due to the fact that these minority groups haven't had the chance to work enough on budgets, that there's not enough experience yet, and we're hoping they'll get to work in favor, moving forward and not against. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe in the importance of political stability, we believe in political stability, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u80	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u81	...where there is political stability there is institutional stability, and where there is stability there is economic growth and there is job creation. The Greeks wagered for stability last September 25, there are the results — Mr Losada knows them well — and we have an obligation to comply with the electoral mandate. When the first 100 days of this government have not yet passed, we are here to approve, here and today, the budgets of this year, because we want to be examples of rigour, example responsibility and example of stability. You, on the other hand, tried by all means to put sticks on the way in this process. They tried to slow down the approval of the budgets, to delay them. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is progressing on the path of economic recovery, and we can do it together, if you want to work on the side of the government, or we can do it separately. You know what? We were alone to fight against the economic crisis. When Galicia got into the worst economic crisis, we had to face the opposition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u82	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u83	...more irresponsible with Galicia, an opposition that was dedicated to screaming, kicking, kicking with his shoes on the president's seats. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u85	We, of course, go ahead in times of the economic crisis and we can go forward in times of recovery. What we invite them to do is to row in favour of the current, because today what is undeniable is economic recovery. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u86	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Round of the groups to be defined on the amendments. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u87	Mr. Tellado, we're not muffled, we're afraid, that we're certainly not grisly and clumsy, we know that you like us to crish, but rather what we are is a little hallucinated and hallucinated, because the truth is that I already, at this point, who are called imbeciles every day, I've used to it a little, because it doesn't offend anyone who wants, but who can. [[Applause]] But that they are as good actors and actresses as to tell us, precisely, in the process of budgets that hold hands, is that, of course, it seems like a bad joke and does not stop hallucinating us a bit that with something so serious they freeze to that point. Now we're being accused of slowing down the procedure. We slow down the procedure because we are confined to the parliamentary process, we tabled amendments, we went to the debates, in fact, we even favour parliamentary agility, because we do not even exhaust many of the times in committee, given what our interventions were for. But at last, sadly, this will continue to be so. If they don't like our slowdown by fulfilling a right we have, you know, in that absolute and absolute majority of which they like to brag about, they also cut down these procedures, because, given what they're interested in, because at last... Persecutive mania is what you have with the Bipartite. I'm really going to tell you something -- which I think I'm going to remind you of more interventions -- that I often tell my colleagues and colleagues in the Nationalist Block of Galicia. I would like a nationalist parliamentarian or parliamentarian born after 2005 to remind you of the Bipartite, to see if they remain obsessed. When you spend decades and decades of the Bipartite, you'll still be anchored there. Finally, then, another question that you always accuse us of, when we comment on some political topical issue — it passed this whole week to the thread of the Electric Network and Mr Fernández de Mesa — is that we do not confine ourselves to the debate, which we do not deal with the subject of the debate. However, you alternate: firstly it was not the debate on tax measures and we were talking about tax measures, now we are past the debate on partial amendments and we are talking about partial amendments. Of course, from BNG we won't be anyone to say what to debate or not to debate. If they want, we keep talking about Pontevedra's budgets, it's okay. We've adapted. But it seems to indicate that what's behind is that they don't have too many arguments not to support amendments like some of those I've related before. It's true that there are others who are political models, who are spending increases. But there are other issues that simply don't accept because they don't want to, like reducing a three-month process to one month and providing information on the Business Council on digital support. So when they run out of arguments, that's what they do. But well, continuing with the procedure and being disciplined, as we are in the BNG, I will proceed to position myself on the amendments of the other opposition groups. We have a difference in nuance, we understand that on some matter we go further, as on the subject of concerts; but, however, we give our positive vote to the other opposition groups. We support the amendments in the committee because we believe that they can be seen as an alternative political model, which can be seen as a means of dialogue, of reaching a concrete understanding. Some of them we embodies them more specifically in the side of the Accompanying Law, because there it is reflected by the Government's group, although we do not agree with the form. And we agree, although with different estimates, on proposals as to the IRPF's German tranche, where we propose a new type to apply it to incomes of more than 120,000 euros. We continue to insist that it is also possible to improve progress towards wealth tax and reduce the minimum exemption. And we also propose to delete all the issues relating to succession tax and donations that were amended in 2015, as was already introduced by compañera Olalla Rodil in the whole debate of the Accompanying Law, as well as a new tax on large commercial areas, that tax demonized by the People's Party because all the legal provisions of the world are going to shake. We have already said that in this House, it is the question of political will also introducing changes to give rise to progress like this. And, of course, we hope that the Galician Union will have the same firm will not to violate the law when it has to be positioned — that we hope it will be tomorrow itself — on the sales of the Xallas River hydroelectric power stations and that it will say a non-contonent, thus supporting the will of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, an almost rhetorical question. Look, why are we bothering him so much? Life is a dream said Segismo in the cell: "What crime did I commit against you when I was born? Although, if I was born, I already understand what crime I committed." What bothers them is that we are able to confront an ideological, ideological model, yes, ideological! and not embarrassing as theirs. [[Laughter]] Yes, ideologically and not embarrassing, like yours. [[Applause]] That's what bothers them. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, say that 80% of the contracts signed in Galicia last year have been undefined in full-time, besides being a lie, lying!; I'm sorry but it's a lie, it's an insult to the workers of this country. [[Applause]] Because official data say that of 942,000 contracts signed only 3,000 exceed the year, the year, undefined, Mr Tellado, the year; 3,000 of 942,000. What's 80%?Oh, my God! What are you talking about? Who wrote that waffle to you? And if you wrote it, check the data. If you wrote it, check the data, because I'm telling you they're wrong. I have never attended this Parliament — and I have been here since 2005 — that someone has hit nothing with his shoe. I, sometimes... playing with some of the best friends on the stage. He said with his shoe. I didn't see Mr. Beers' shoe, except on his foot. I don't look much at the feet of Beers, certainly. Look, of course it doesn't hurt for Galicia to grow by 3.5%. I'm glad. What hurts me is that this growth goes wrong. It hurts me that pay, the weight of GDP work, loses four points. That really hurts, Mr. Tellado. It hurts what Bernie Sanders said: "Someone is getting rich and it's not us." Sure, someone's getting rich. Do you know who's getting rich? Capital yields and corporate income. That's right, because what's lost in rents of work... you'll be communicating, Mr. Tellado, there's no more miracles, in spite of the half repulsive look of the counsellor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The truth is, I reaffirm myself in the teaching vocation of some people. And in this case, Mr. López Crespo, it's not for you, eh! Mr Feijóo's last interview: "The political context obliges understanding. It is necessary to act intelligently and generously and there is no reason of general interest that prevents consensus." Of 48 amendments submitted, 0 accepted. Can you really talk about consensus and talk about something that has to do with the slightest political cooperation in this Parliament? But how can you talk about it? How can it be said that we are delaying the processing of budgets if the presentation meeting of this law lasted exactly ten minutes, where Mr. Pedro Puy — and there were speakers from the other groups — said that nothing is accepted except the number "n" of the BNG? Does he really say we're late? Please hear a minimum of decency, a minimum of decency! Are you talking about parliamentary filibusters, which have had the case investigation commission of three years cryogenicized because you don't know very well what was going on? But can they really tell us what we're having a hard time...? What? I insist, ten minutes of presentation. So 10 minutes means that the 48 amendments of the Socialist Party were 3.3... (periodic) minutes, Mr. Tellado. So, I think it's all right, it's good to talk about public services, health and education. All the data published by the Galego Institute of Statistics say that public administrations replace 4,900 fixed temporary jobs. You think this doesn't attack public services? Why do they do it? For saving and for something else, for saving and for something else: because, attacking there, there's business. Why was Trump the first one he attacked was Obamacare and environmental protection measures? [[Murmurs.]] That's exactly why you changed the Vigo hospital project and blew up the wind competition. That's right, exactly for the same thing! [[Applause]] Exactly for the same reason, as much as they disguise themselves, as much as they deal with each other, for the same reason. I appreciate the interaction, because you always learn. And in tax matters, Mr. Tellado, look, "the collection of 2017 will achieve a historic peak." Employees' remuneration dropped 4 points in GDP, but the IRPF...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u91	...will keep on the same level. And, yes, capital returns and business profits increased by 4 points, but corporate tax dropped by 45%. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Pedro Puy the other day said it was because the losses of previous years were transferred, which undoubtedly in one part is that. But does it not seem surprising to you that those losses that allow for this transfer to later years, however, would mean a percentage increase in the gross domestic product as a whole?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u92	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u93	And another thing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u94	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u95	...the IVE, which we all know is an indirect tax and therefore more unequal and unfairer, doubled between 2009 and 2017. It's not management or philosophy, it's ideology and business...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u96	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u97	...they like it or they don't like it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u98	Thank you, Mr. Losada. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u99	Well, I'm not going to waste all the time, so that the budget procedure will meet the schedule. I like the numbers, I recognize it. And the Members and the Members sitting on the right of this House are there with the legitimacy of 676,676 votes. The Members who are sitting on the left seats are sitting with the legitimacy that gives us 644,952 votes. There's a difference of 36,724 votes between the right-hand side and the political forces that we represent a different model. [[Applause]] When you speak of absolute majority and minorities, you have to do the math: 676,000 versus 644,000. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Secondly, if we had the government, Mr Tellado, we would rule. I recognize that I'm a novice here, but I don't just understand why the Government likes to do is opposition from the opposition. If I come here and ask you specific questions, with specific figures, I'd intellectually expect you to answer that when I went up to the rostrum. [[Applause]] But you don't answer to anything about your responsibility and dedicate yourself to biting left-wing Members. And that's an intellectually mediocre, mediocre attitude. The government rules, the government knows more than we do, the government has all the data, and when it comes here it should explain the data. For example, why does the Ministry of Business estimate that revenue will be increased by 14,630 million euros in 2017 compared to the year 2016 — I will pass the document to them if they do not have it — and Mr. Consecutor of Fatenda says Galicia will increase its income from the self-financing model to 79 million euros? Why don't you explain that instead of bite? I'd like to insist on that idea of income. Let's agree with that. The only alternative to the debt crisis and cuts is to increase income, it's the only alternative. Let's agree on that. And it is true, it cannot be denied, that income in Spain has sank, that it is the only country in the European Union that has suffered a huge decline in its tax revenue. That's right. It has to do with, at best, real estate bubble problems, etc., but in this very interesting document of the Ministry, Statistics and Tax Policy, it says that the tax reforms that the Government made in 2015 and 2016 have a cost in collection, which decreases the collection by 11,500 million euros. That is, there are economic problems, yes; but there are ideological decisions that have to do with the conception of the state that prefer, as you can see, to lower taxes, especially high incomes, thereby undermining the ability of governments to act against the people who need it most. And it's a zero-sum game. I get less and, therefore, I have less resources to make social policies. When I get less, who do I take the money from? Who can I help with these measures? The ones who have the most resources. And when I can't make public policies, who do I harm? Well, I harm the weakest people. So if there is an economic model that has different principles and ideologies. And I'm done with a final data, said Abel Losada. I saw the other day in the survey of active population — and they should look at it —: from 2013, fourth quarter of the year 2013, to quarter of 2016, when one compares the employees who were and those who are now present and do the account, it turns out that there are 2,500 more employees with indefinite contract, and 43,500 more employees with temporary contract. Therefore, 95%, 95% of the wage employment generated in recovery is precarious, it's temporary. We're changing from precarious to precarious. That's the success of your government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u100	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Thank you very much. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't expect to have to apologize for winning our party the elections of September 25th. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Losada, tell you that someone is getting rich with economic recovery. I'm telling you, I don't think so, and I hope not. What I'm telling you is that, with you, we all get impoverished when you rule. That's reality, and that's what makes us different. [[Applause]] And, Mr. Lago, don't ask us to follow you in the mistakes, don't ask us to follow you in the mistakes. Look, you want to push Galicia. They did it when they ruled, and now that's what they're proposing. They want to push Galicia, and that's what I think is mediocre. So don't wait for us to follow them in those approaches. And here no one bites anyone. Maybe at the summits of the Weird Seas, yes. Here we exchange ideas and talk about things. Mr Losada, the opposition groups — and in particular theirs — called for delays in the adoption of budgets when the timetable was approved, asked for more appearances, more time to submit amendments. That's what you asked for, and that's why it's trying to delay the procedure. Maybe Mr. Leicega didn't tell you because you're more than Abel Caballero, but that's the reality. Look, I don't come here to make you bitter in the morning, but, unfortunately, today's set-up report has been made public by the Galician Economic Forum. The Greek economic activity accelerates to 3,7 % by the end of 2016. The economic improvement measured until November is the highest in the last eight years. The indicator shows the pull of service companies and industry — Galician Economic Forum, which coordinates Fernando González Laxe. In a few minutes we will proceed to the approval of the budgets of the Galician Union for the year 2017, some budgets that increase by 2.9 % to exhaust the expenditure ceiling, which exceed the €9 billion for the first time since 2011; some budgets that consolidate the biggest tax reduction in the history of autonomy and include new selective tax discharges; some budgets that increase social expenditure by 229 million, with an increase of more than 160 million for health and education; some budgets in which investment increases by 4% above average and those that reduce debt expenditure by around 13%; some budgets that eliminate taxes for young people, for large families and for disabled people who buy a housing to live in rural areas; some budgets that resume the specific complement in the extra payments for public employees one year before the forecast; some budgets that spend eight on each euro. And you, gentlemen of the opposition, will vote against these budgets. They vote against it because they're against everything, they vote against it because they're against everyone who doesn't think the same as you. They present impossible amendments and accuse us of not wanting to dialogue for not accepting proposals that would lead Galicia to the most absolute paralysis. On one side is the BNG, which finally renounces the Bipartite — I think it is well—, on the other side is the PSdEG PSOE, who are going to tell us if we have to be packagers or we have to be Sanchists or we have to be Susana Díaz—well, they are in it, who would tell us all that we were going to miss the leaders of Pachi Vázquez or Mr Rubalcaba!—. And then there are the Tides of Podemos, as you yourself say, who are worried about yours, about yours, forgetting about what's going on in the street, forgetting about the people of the common world. Well, that's how things are, we deeply regret it. They accuse us of not accepting the dialogue, of not wanting to make a deal with you at all. And you know what happens? The reality is that we've been rejecting the same proposals for years, the same amendments. That's the reality. See, in the case of PSdEG-PSOE, of the 48 amendments that present to the articulated budget law this year, a total of 28 are the same as those of the previous year. There it is, that's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] Of the rest, many find it difficult to incorporate a law of budgets, risk deadlines, transfer contests... you, who criticize the law of measures, because you intend to do the same in the articulate of the law. In the Podemos Seas, of 25 amendments, 12 are the same ones they presented when they were called AGE. Look, that's the situation. The rest are suppression amendments. In the case of BNG, of the 33 amendments they submit, a total of 26 are the same as those of last year. Of course we're going to vote the same as last year: against your amendments! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. Last September 25 we received a mandate from the Greeks, and that task is to recover the economy, consolidate economic recovery, and create jobs. We're going to carry out the citizen's mandate. We can do it with you if you actually want to row together in the same direction. If they want to add up, our door will certainly be open. But, of course, if what they want is to entertain us, delay the deadlines, it doesn't contain us. We're going to fulfill our citizenship mandate, because in Galicia, if most of us allow us to rule...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u103	...more ones that allow us to give Galicia stability. In Galicia if there is stability, in Galicia if there is a government that works from rigor and from solvency, a government that presents its budgets when the first 100 days of government have not yet passed since its possession. Ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia, yes; in Galicia, if there is political stability, if there is institutional stability...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u105	...in Galicia if you have a serious government, a rigorous government, a responsible government. In Galicia, yes; in Galicia, if there are budgets. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u106	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Vote for expenditure statements Voting of the budgets of the sections and instrumental entities dependent on them
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u107	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. I beg you to collaborate because this is a bit long, it's a lot of votes, and we're going to see how we have all this and that there's no problem. We begin by voting on the sections and instrumental entities that depend on these sections. In particular, Parliament of Galicia, Council of Auditors and Council of Culture Galicia. Vote for Budgets of Section 01: Parliament of Galicia, of Section 02: Council of Auditors and of Section 03: Council of Culture Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 25; abstentions, 7. The voting is positive. The budgets of these sections are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u108	Section 04: Presidency of the Galician Union We started by voting on amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Amendment Nos 1 to 5, 7 and 300 G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the budget of section 04: Presidency of the Galician Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u109	We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Amendment Nos 1 to 18 and 21 to 35 G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of section 04: Presidency of the Galician Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u110	We voted for amendments by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Vote of Amendments Nos 16 to 27 G.P. of En Marea to budget section 04: Presidency of the Council of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u111	We voted for section 04 budget. Vote for the budget of section 04: Presidency of the Council of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of section 04 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u112	Section 05: Vice-Presidentship and Presidency, Public Administration and Justice. First of all, we are voting on amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. Vote for Amendments Nos 8 to 19 and 296 from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block to the budget of section 05: Vice-Presidentship and Chairlorship, Public Administration and Justice. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u113	We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 36 to 69 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to budget section 05: Vice-Presidentship and Chairlorship, Public Administrations and Justice. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u114	We voted for amendments by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 15 of the G.P. of En Marea to budget section 05: Vice-Presidentship and Chairlorship, Public Administrations and Justice. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u115	We voted for section 05 budget. Vote for the budget of section 05: Vice-Presidentship and Chairlorship, Public Administration and Justice. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of section 05 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u116	We voted for section 06: Business Councillor. We started by voting on amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 20 to 22 of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego to the budget of section 06: Conseilería de Fatenda. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u117	We are now voting on the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which calls for Amendment No 72 to be voted on separately. We begin by voting on this amendment. Amendment No 72 to the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the budget of section 06: Conseilería de Fatenda. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u118	We now vote for the rest of the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Amendment Nos 70 to 73 - except for paragraph 72, which has already been voted on by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the budget of section 06: Conseilería de Fatenda. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u119	We voted for the amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Amendment No 28 to the G.P. of En Marea to the budget of section 06: Business Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u120	We now vote on the budget for section 06. Vote for the budget of section 06: Business Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of section 06 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u121	Section 07: Environment and Planning Council of the Territory. We started by voting on amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Amendment Nos 23 to 39 and 307 of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego to the budget of section 07: Environmental Advice and Planning of the Territory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u122	We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 74 to 103 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of section 07: Environmental Advice and Planning of the Territory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u123	We voted for amendments by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 29 to 50 of the G.P. of En Marea to the budget of section 07: Environmental Advice and Planning of the Territory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u124	We voted on the budget for the Territorial Environment and Planning Council. Vote for the budget of section 07: Environmental and Planning Council of the Territory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of section 07 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u125	Section 08: Infrastructure and Living Council. We started by voting for amendments to the Galician Nationalist Block. Amendment Nos 40 to 44, 46, 47, 49 and 58 to 61 G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block to Budget Section 08: Infrastructure and Living Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u126	We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote of Amendments Nos 193 to 195 and 205 to 207 of the G.P. of Galician Socialists to Budget Section 08: Infrastructure and Living Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u127	We voted for amendments by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 51, 61 and 62 of the G.P. of En Marea to budget section 08: Infrastructure and Living Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u128	We voted on the budget of the Infrastructure and Living Council. Vote for the budget of section 08: Infrastructure and Living Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of section 08 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u129	Section 09: Economic, Employment and Industry. We started by voting on amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Amendment Nos 62 to 82, 294, 295, 305 and 306 G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego to the budget of section 09: Counselloría de Economía, Employo e Industria. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u130	We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 229 to 235 and 284 to 300 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to budget section 09: Economics, Employment and Industry. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u131	We voted for amendments by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 64 to 70a from G.P. of En Marea to budget section 09: Economics, Employment and Industry. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u132	We voted for the budget of the Economic, Employment and Industry Council. Vote for the budget of section 09: Economic, Employment and Industry Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of section 09 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u133	Section 10: Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination. We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. There is a separate motion for a vote on Amendment No 100. Do you accept this request from the group? [[Affirmation.]] Amendment No 100 to the G.P. from the Nationalist Block Galego to the budget of section 10: Counsellor of Culture, Education and Universitary Order. The voting was as follows: votes in favour,32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Amendments Nos 83 to 141 - except 100, which have already been voted on - 297, 298, 299 and 301 to 304 G.P. from the Nationalist Block Galego to the budget of section 10: Counsellor of Culture, Education and Universitary Order. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 39; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u134	Voting Vote for Amendments Nos 301 to 393 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the budget of section 10: Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u135	In the vote on amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on En Marea there is a request from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to separate Amendments 71, 72 and 73. Do you accept the Tide Parliamentary Group? Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Affirmation.]] Can we vote for them all together? [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo asks for the floor.]] Give a voice to Mrs Vilan's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u136	74, too, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u137	Also 74. Do you accept the group? Then can we vote these four joints? [[Affirmation.]] Vote on Amendments Nos 71, 72, 73 and 74 to G.P. of En Marea to the budget of section 10: Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 39; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Amendment No 75 to the G.P. of En Marea to the budget of section 10: Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u138	We voted for the budget of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination. Vote of the budget of section 10: Counsellor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget under section 10 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u139	Section 11: Health Counsellor. We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Vote for Amendments Nos 142, 194, 199, 200 and 203 of the G.P. from the Nationalist Block to the budget of section 11: Health Counsellor. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39 The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u140	We voted on the budget for the Health Council. Vote for the budget of section 11: Health Counsellor. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of section 11 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u141	Section 12: Social Policy Council We started by voting on amendments from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 204 to 240 of the G.P. from the Nationalist Block to the budget of section 12: Counsellor for Social Policy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u142	Voting amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 433 to 441 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the budget of section 12: Counsellor for Social Policy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u143	We voted for amendments by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 85 to 90 of the G.P. In Marea to the budget of section 12: Counsellor for Social Policy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u144	We voted on the budget for the Social Policy Council. Vote for the budget of Section 12: Counsellor for Social Policy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of section 12 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u145	Section 13: Rural Media Council We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Amendment Nos 241 to 245, 257 to 259, 292 and 293 G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the budget of section 13: Rural Media Councillor. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u146	We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 442 to 465 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of section 13: Rural Media Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u147	We voted for amendments by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 91 to 95 of the G.P. From En Marea to the budget of Section 13: Rural Middle East Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u148	We voted on the budget for the Rural Council. Vote for the budget of Section 13: Rural Middle East Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of section 13 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u149	Section 14: Sea Council We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Vote for Amendments Nos 260 to 291 of the G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the budget of section 14: Counsellor of the Sea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u150	We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 466 to 498 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of section 14: Counsellor of the Sea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u151	We voted for amendments by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 96 to 103 of the G.P. From En Marea to the budget of Section 14: Counsellor of the Sea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u152	We voted for the budget of the Sea Council. Vote of the budget for section 14: Counsellor of the Sea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of section 14 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u153	We voted for section 20, section 21, section 22 and section 23. Vote of the budgets of section 20: Galician Advisory Council, section 21: Transfers to local corporations, section 22: Public debt of the Autonomous Community and section 23: Expenditures of various councils. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 19; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. Budgets under sections 20, 21, 22 and 23 are therefore approved. Instrumental public entities Self-responsive agencies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u154	We vote on the budgets of the instrumental public entities. We started with the autonomous agencies. Vote of the budgets of the Galega School of Public Administration, the Gallega Academy of Public Safety, the Galego Institute of Statistics and the Institute of Studies of the Territory. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. These budgets are therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u155	Instituto Galego da Vivenda e Solo. We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Vote for Amendments Nos 45, 48, 50 and 57 of the G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the budget of the Galego Institute of Vivenda e Solo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u156	We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote on Amendments Nos 209 to 228 of the G.P. from Galician Socialists to the budget of the Galego Institute of Vivenda e Solo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u157	We voted for the budget of the Galego Institute of Vivenda e Solo. Vote of the budget of the Galego Institute of Vivenda e Solo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of this institute is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u158	Galego de Saúde Service. We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Amendment Nos 143 to 193, 195 to 198, 201, 202, 308 and 309 G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the budget of the Galego Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u159	We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 394 to 432 of the G.P. from Galician Socialists to the budget of the Galego Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u160	We voted for amendments by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 76 to 84 of the G.P. from En Marea to the budget of the Galego Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u161	We voted for the budget of the Galego Health Service. Vote for the budget of the Galego Health Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this body is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u162	Instituto Galego do Consumo e da Competencia; Instituto Galego de Seguridad e Saúde Laboral e Fondo Galego de Garantia Agraria. Vote of the budgets of the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition, the Galego Institute of Occupational Safety and Health and the Galego Fund for Agricultural Guarantee. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budgets of these bodies are therefore approved. Public instrumental consulting or advisory entities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u163	In particular, the Galician Economic and Social Council and the Galego Labour Relations Council. We vote for the budget of these councils. Vote for the budgets of the Galician Economic and Social Council and the Galego Labour Relations Council. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. The budgets of these councils are therefore approved. Public Self-Governmental Agencies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u164	Public autonomous agencies; in particular, Agency for the Modernization of Technology of Galicia. Vote of the Agency's budget for the Modernization of Galician Technology. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this agency is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u165	Tourism Agency of Galicia. We voted for the amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Amendment No 6 to the G.P. from the Galician Nationalist Block to the budget of the Galician Tourism Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u166	We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 19 and 20 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of the Galician Tourism Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u167	We voted for the budget of the Galician Tourism Agency. Vote for the budget of the Galician Tourism Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this agency is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u168	Galician Infrastructure Agency. We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Vote for Amendments Nos 51 to 56 of the G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the Budget of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u169	We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 104 to 192, 196 to 204 and 208 from G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of the Galician Infrastructure Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u170	We voted for amendments by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Vote on Amendments Nos 52 to 60 and 63 to G.P. From En Marea to the budget of the Agency Galaga de Infrastructuras. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u171	We voted for the budget of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency. Vote for the budget of the Agency Gallega de Infrastructuras. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this agency is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u172	Instituto Energetico de Galicia. We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 250 to 260 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of the Instituto Energético de Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u173	We voted for the budget of this institute. Vote of the budget of the Instituto Energético de Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of this institute is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u174	Instituto Galego de Promoción Economique. We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 236 to 249 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of the Galego Institute of Economic Promotion. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u175	We voted for the budget of this institute. Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They'd be 39 against it, then. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We were voting for the budget of the Galego Institute for Economic Promotion. Let's vote again. Vote for the budget of the Galego Institute for Economic Promotion. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget of this institute is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u176	Galician Innovation Agency. We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 261 to 283 of the G.P. from Galician Socialists to the budget of the Galician Innovation Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u177	We voted for the budget of this agency. Vote for the budget of the Galician Innovation Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this agency is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u178	Galega Rural Development Agency. We voted for the amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Vote of Amendment No 256 to the G.P. from the Galician Nationalist Block to the budget of the Galician Rural Development Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u179	We voted for the budget of this agency. Vote for the budget of the Galician Rural Development Agency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this agency is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u180	We are now voting on the budgets of the following agencies. Vote of the budgets of the Galician Emergency Agency; of the Information Centre for Tax, Economic and Financial Management (CIXTEC); of the Galician Tax Agency; of the Galician Agency for Cultural Industries; of the Galician Agency for Social Services; of the Galician Agency for the Management of Health Knowledge; of the Galician Agency for Blood, Organs and Fabrics; of the Galician Food Quality Institute; and of the Instituto Tecnológico para la Control du Medio Marine de Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budgets of these agencies are therefore approved. Public enterprise entities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u181	Public enterprise entities; in particular, Galician waters. There are amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which calls for a separate vote of 503, 504, 505, 506, 510 and 511. Do we vote all these that I just commented on in the first place? [[Assentment.]] Vote for Amendments 503, 504, 505, 506, 510 and 511 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of the public enterprise company Waters of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote for Amendments Nos 503 to 575 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia (except 503, 504, 505, 506, 510 and 511, already voted) to the budget of the public enterprise Waters of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u182	We voted for this entity's budget. Vote of the budget of the public enterprise Waters of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this entity is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u183	Ports of Galicia. We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 499 to 502 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the public entrepreneurship Portos de Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u184	We voted for this entity's budget. Vote of the budget of the public entrepreneurship Portos de Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this entity is therefore approved. Autonomic consortia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u185	Autonomic consortia. Galego Consortium of Services of Equality and Welfare. We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 576 to 603 of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the budget of the Galego Consortium of Services of Equality and Welfare. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u186	We voted for the budget of this consortium. Vote of the budget of the Galego Consortium for Services of Equality and Welfare. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this consortium is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u187	We voted on the budget for the following consortia. Vote of the budgets of the Agency for the Protection of Urban Legality; of the Centre for Universitary Extension and Environmental Disclosure of Galicia; of the Consortium for the Management and Exploitation of the Basic Water Supply Network to the Councils of Cervo and Burela; of the Consorcio Casco Vello de Vigo; of the Agency for the Quality of the University System of Galicia and of the Consortium of University Libraries of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 26; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. The budgets of these consortia are therefore approved. Sociedads mercanti publice autonomiques
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u188	Sociedads Mercantís Públicas Autonomiques. We voted for the Galicia-Xestur Soil Management Budget, S.A. Vote of the Budget of the Galicia-Xestur Soil Management Society, S.A. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budget for this company is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u189	We voted on the budgets of the following public commodity companies. Vote of the budgets of public commercial companies: Corporation Radio and Television of Galicia, S.A.; Telecommunications Networks Gallegas, S.A.; Society of Management of the Xacobeo Plan, S.A.; Public Investment Society of Galicia, S.A.; Society of Environment Gallega, S.A.; XesGalicia, S.A.; Sodiga Galicia, S.A.; Galicia Quality, S.A.; Technology Park of Galicia, S.A.; Gallery, Public Health Services Company, S.A.; Public Company of Agricultural Services Galegos, S.A. ; and Genetic Fontao, S.A. [[Retegal]] [[Sogama]] [[Seaga]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. These budgets are therefore approved. Autonomous Public Foundations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u190	Public autonomous foundations. We vote on your budgets. Vote of the budgets of the public autonomous foundations: Galego Sport Foundation; Galicia Foundation Europe; Green Week Foundation of Galicia; Foundation Galego Centre of Crafts and Design; Foundation Galego Centre of Supercomputation of Galicia; Foundation Exhibitions and Congresses A Road; Foundations Fairs and Exhibitions of Place; Foundation Fairs and Exhibitions of Ourense; Instituto Feiral da Coruña; Fundación Galego de Training for Labour; Foundation Energy Agency Provincial da Coruña; Fundación Publica Cidade da Cultura de Galicia; Fundación Rof Codina; Fundación Camilo José Cela; Foundation Galego de Ophthalmology; Fundación Pública Urgências Sanitarias Galicia 061; Instituto Galego de Medicina Xenomómico; Fundación Public Foundation Galega para a Tutela de Persoa Adultas; Fundación Centro Tecnologico da Carne e Fundación Centro Tecnológico do Mar. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The budgets of these foundations are therefore approved. Voting of the articulated text of the dictation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u191	Articulate text of the dictation. First of all, we are voting on amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 33 of the G.P. from the Galego Nationalist Block to the articulated text of the dictatorship, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour,32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u192	We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 48 of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the articulated text of the dictatorship, issued by Commission 3a, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour,31; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u193	We voted for amendments by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 25 G.P. on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u194	We voted for the articulated text of the dictatorship. Voting of the articulated text of the dictatorship, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft general budget law of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. The text of the dictation is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-06-DSPG014.u195	This vote concludes what we had to vote on, and therefore the budget of the Autonomous Community of Galicia is adopted by 2017. [[Applause]] The session is up.
