ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. [[Pause.]] Good morning again. The session is open. Mr Sánchez García has justified his absence. And we enter the development of the agenda. [[Murmurs.]] We have entered item 6 on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for the oral reply of the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece in connection with the announcement of the consolidation of the sale by the company Ferroatlantica of hydroelectric power stations in the river Xallas and its possible impact on the employment of the Costa da Morte
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u2	We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u3	Thank you very much and very good day. Mr. Feijóo, allow me first of all to congratulate him on his paternity. I am convinced that this fact will help you to understand better the concern of the workers and the workers of Ferroatlantics for their present. In the end, the decisions we make today will be the future of their sons and daughters. We can't forget that we're talking about 284 jobs that depend directly on Ferroatlantica in their plants in Cee and Dumbria, which are key jobs in a region like the Coast of Death. You told us in this plenary that you couldn't talk about the segregation and sale of the Xallas power stations because they were just rumors. Today we're no longer talking about wrinkles, we're talking about specific facts. Please note: the multinational owner of Ferroatlantica has just announced that it will sell these power stations and that it intends to obtain a net benefit of EUR 165 million that wants to be used to amortize debt. This communiqué was made through an official communiqué that the company sent to the New York and London stock exchanges on February 1, 2017. I hope you don't tell me that the Galician Union, and you as president, was the only one who didn't find out that Ferroatlantica announced the illegal sale of the power stations, which, according to this official communication, is pending government authorization. In other words, Ferroatlantica has just announced that it will sell a property of which it is not owned, a property of the Greeks and the Greeks who have been granted free of charge since 1956. And why have we been 60 years allowing Ferroatlantica to have free tons and tons of kilowatts of electricity? Because it was the only way to defend employment, because without the power stations the plants of Cee and Dumbria would have closed. And that premise today remains absolutely valid. If we segregate the activity of the hydroelectrics of business activity, that literally means signing the death act of 284 jobs. So simple and so hard. That's why our question is very clear, Mr. Feijóo: will the Government of Greece, and you as president, authorize the sale of the Xallas plants knowing that this is the liquidation of the plants of Cee and Dumbria and throw 284 workers on the street? Because all of this, why is Mr. Villarmir doing it? Well, just to make a box speculating with a public asset. And, in the end, everything for what, so they end up closing the factories in Cee and Dumbria? We, Mr Feijóo, offer you a country pact, a very clear agreement with two simple points: let us unite all the political forces to tell Villarmar loud and clear — and without a small letter — that the Xallas power stations are neither sold nor separated and, secondly, we demand that you fulfill your commitments, because, look, Galicia owes Villar nothing but Villarmir is responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u5	...a lot of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I thank you very much for your congratulations. Before I had children, I was interested in the job in Galicia. I don't think it's fair that people who don't have them because they can't be sensitive to jobs in the autonomous community too. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, your question actually speaks of an advertisement. You ask a question on the basis of which a company announces a sale. As you know — and the workers know, because we're in communication with them, as with the mayors — the Galician Union has no notification or record of any sales of the facilities you refer to. Let's say it clearly here three months ago, on November 23, and I repeat the fact that these three months ago, with the data we have right now, with the data that the Economic Council has, we understand that public interest is still linked to concessions. So, Your Honor, we couldn't authorize any segregation because we don't have any data to believe a change in public interest. So, Your Honor, we are speaking clearly and loyally to everyone. First of all, with the mayors, because after that Parliamentary question, the councillor and I met with all the mayors of the district and we raised two questions: firstly, that the Galician Union obviously had no communication from any company in relation to these matters and, secondly, that today could not be authorized segregation. And thirdly, any novelty the mayors had would have the same as the Galician Union and we would share that information for their analysis. In the same way, the Economic Councillor met on November 28 with the Business Committee of these factories, and we also found that at the time when something new had occurred, we would meet again and report on it. So the exchange of information is constant and permanent, and since there is no new news, I can tell you nothing about your question. Look, Your Honor, if what you ask me is, in case the company submits a proposal. We would look at it, Your Honor, with three suggestions: firstly, with respect to compliance with the law; secondly, with the guarantee of public interest; and, thirdly and fundamentally, with employment. Your Honor, I want to tell the workers of Ferroatlantics that this government is committed to the employment of all of these workers. I want to tell those workers that this government has no more commitment than that job. [[Applause]] And I want to tell you, Mrs. Pontón, that you're sure to defend the workers a lot, but I assure you that we're not going to defend them any less. What's not reasonable in any case, Your Honor, is to make a proposal as you do. First of all, let me know that on the basis of an advertisement for the sale of a company, with that announcement the Galician Union has an obligation to act. And yet you say nothing about the announcement from that same company that you want to invest 100 million euros in Galicia, Cee, Dumbria and Sabón. Which one do I stay with, Your Honor, the two ads?, that ad to sell or that ad to invest? Your Honor, public administrations speak on the basis of real requests and speak on the basis of real projects. And that's why when we have real applications and projects, this government is going to speak. But before any request...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u9	...and before any project the priority for this government is the people of Cee, the people of Dumbria and the people of Sabón. We have no more commitment than Galicia, Mrs. Pontón. So, if you agree with us, there will be no discrepancy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u11	...Now, if you think you're going to defend the workers more than we do, then there'll be a deep discrepancy, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u13	We have no more commitment to the workers. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u15	Mr. Feijóo, I am sorry that you have come from a bad mood in this House and that it bothers you that we ask you about a subject that has in town hundreds of people in our country, and in particular on the Coast of Death. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijóo, you say you don't know that Ferroatlantica has announced the sale of its power stations. However, there's an official communication and you've been talking in the public and private media about this country over the last few weeks. I don't think you know anything and I don't think the company had any contact with the Galician Board to announce the sale of the power stations. In any case, the Counsellor met in November, but since 1 February he has an application — if I am not mistaken, made on three occasions by the Business Committee — at which he is asked for a meeting to examine the new scenario that occurs after the announcement by Ferroglobe that he has a closed agreement to sell the power stations. And you, Mr. Feijóo, to the workers who are listening to you today from this rostrum and to those who are listening to you and who are afraid of the future of your sons and daughters, you have to tell them loud and clear whether there is any scenario in which you see that the centrals of the river Xallas and the Great River can be segregated and sold. Because you know — as I know, just as the workers know and anyone in this country knows — that without the central plants of Cee and Dumbria are not viable. If there's a concession linked to plant production, if there's a concession that clearly says you can't be segregated and sold, you don't do anything in front of an illegal sale announcement; you say you're going to study it. I'm worried about that. Mr. Feijóo, we make a proposal that is sensible and a country proposal. We demand the company and tell it that the Xallas plants don't sell or divide, because that's what the law says and because that's what it says in common sense to keep jobs. But we asked him to fulfill his commitments, because, look, in 1986 when Villarir was authorized to grant Santa Uxía there were 500 jobs in Ferroatlantica, it was said that that concession was to secure employment; today there are 284. When his government broadened its recuperation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u17	...Villarmir said he was going to create 700 jobs. Mr. Feijóo, can you tell me where those 700 jobs were announced? We're talking about a very serious subject...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u19	...that is in a serious moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u21	And all we ask of you -- and I hope that doesn't bother you -- is that the Union has a clear commitment. Are you going to defend the legality that says power stations don't sell themselves or split up, yes or no? It's very simple.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u22	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u23	Second question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u24	Finish. You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u25	...in fact, we asked the company to fulfill its commitments to this country, because — I insist —
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u27	...Villarmir...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u28	Your time is up, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u29	...have boxed with Galicia and didn't reinvest here but reinvestated outside...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u30	Thank you. Mrs. Pontón, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u31	...Mr. Feijó.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u32	Thank you. Closure roll, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u33	Mrs. Pontón, I don't think it reasonable that you come here to say that the Government is insensitive to the jobs of Cee and Dumbria because you just know you're lying. One of the biggest investments this government has made in the full economic crisis was to finish an infrastructure — which, of course, I had started as Vice-President of the Union — which was to expand the port of Cee, just to facilitate the exit of the goods and the exit of the traffic from those factories. Your Honor, I repeat here today in front of the workers that we will not fail those workers, because these workers are as Greek as you and me. And while I'm president of the Galician Council, my commitment is to the workers, to the workers! And that's why I don't think it's reasonable in any way that you've challenged me that we're authorizing a sale because it's false, absolutely false. And you mustn't mind and bring people's concerns when those worries don't exist. Mr President, what needs to be said is that, if the company presents a file, we are going to speak first of all to the mayors of the area — who represent all the neighbors — and, of course, to the trade unions who are represented in these factories. We're in contact with the mayors of the area, with the unions that have representation in those factories, we're in contact... yes, Your Honor, we're in contact. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Don't talk about what you don't know. We're in touch. Yes, Your Honor, don't laugh because that's the reality. And as we're in touch with the majority unions of that factory, I repeat to you that we will continue to be in touch. Look, Your Honor, Ferroatlantica has not submitted any applications in the Union; therefore, there is no assessment or change in the position of the Galician Union as specified in the Chamber on 23 November. That is, we have no belief that public interest is changing and, consequently, hydroelectric farms and factories have to remain united. If there's any news, if there's any new valuation, if there's any new commitment, if there's any new public interest, obviously, Your Honor, that the first thing the Government has to do is evaluate it, with the mayors and with the workers. But don't tell me here you can do anything. According to these ads, this company says it wants to invest 100 million in Galicia, and that's why it has to sell assets. Yes, Your Honor, that's what the announcement says. So what's important? We'll see when that company does something. Of course, this company did nothing to the Galician Union. And do you know what the Council of Galicia is planning? I repeat: the law, the public interest and the workers. These are the three commitments of the Galician Union: law, public interest and workers. And, therefore, the workers of Cee, the workers of Dumbria, the workers of the Coast of Death and the workers of Soap that know that this is not only the government's commitment but the president of the board. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment of the effects of the labour situation in Sergas on health care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u35	Question by Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u36	Good morning. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, according to the CIS barometer, the concern for health in Galicia is far above that same concern in Spain and, for example, at the same time as it generates employment. In recent years, while the health care needs have increased in this country, despite the stabilization of the population, there has been an adjustment in the staffing frameworks that has to do with the reduced rate of replacement of personnel that has been applied since 2009, but also by decisions of the Autonomous Community itself, for example, in relation to early retirement of health personnel. This gap between growing needs and low human resources, in stable terms, causes partial coverage of unforeseen needs with precarious staff, as well as increasing stress on health professionals and the rest of the staff, especially when there are peaks of activity as we have seen in the last month. We can say, according to the Ministry's data, that there are about a thousand less staff in public health in Galicia than in 2009, taking into account all health categories. Precarization and the decapitalization of health care are quite evident if we are aware that by talking only about doctors, both specialized care and primary care, over the past eight years we have trained in Galicia in the various hospitals of the Autonomous Community over two thousand five hundred doctors, but we only make public offer completed today for 322, of which 165 are family doctors and 157 other specialties. You might wonder where the rest is. Some are at home, others have gone, others are repeating the MIR, because it's the best option they have access to, and the vast majority are running around the public health by covering the casualties, vacations, making replacements of different kinds in precarious conditions, in low wages conditions, with poor professional prospects and very hard working conditions. We should all — and I suppose you too — be concerned about this situation. It must be said that precarious contracts replace, even if partially, stable professionals. An approximate calculation tells us that about seven thousand people, not just doctors, seven thousand people from all categories are working on Sergas in this situation. There are no official figures, so let's say, putting a silencer on the problem, but everybody knows it: garbage contracts, days, hours and wages for much below the qualification needed, stress, discouragement, exploitation... that's what we're doomed to our most formed youth. As different judgments of the High Court of Justice of Galicia, including the Court of the European Union, are being recognised, which assess that this situation is taking place too often. Don't you think this is affecting the quality of health care despite the effort and delivery of professionals?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u37	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, I wanted to leave some clear ideas to avoid confusion. Public health professionals in Galicia made an undeniable effort during these times of recession and economic crisis. I know the public health of my country and I want to recognize the effort of these professionals. It moves me exclusively to guarantee the public health of Galicia today, but above all, what moves us all is to guarantee the public health of Galicia of the future. You tell me about the CIS. The health barometer, the last known in June 2016, that is, eight months ago: 71.6% of the Greeks consider their public health system good or good enough. Eight points above Spain's global rating. Therefore, Your Honor, most of the Greeks we agree that public health in Galicia is a good or quite good system, rather than the average of the rest of the Spaniards. Your Honor, during the times of weak cows, 2,000 million euros less each year's budget for the Galician Union, the percentage of the health budget has grown in public accounts. When there was a lot of money, 36% was spent and now we invested 42%. Your Honor, in Galicia we are investing much more than other autonomous communities that assume public health systems. For example, we spent, — better said — spending 230 euros more per person per year than Andalusia, 130 euros more per person per year than Madrid or 100 euros per person per year than Valencia. Your Honor, we are at the top of the health investment table per inhabitant. Obviously, we have an older population, and that means an increase in health expenditure. Yes, sir, but we look after her, because we might not. But as far as employment is concerned, what I want to tell you is that probably -- because there's a lot of data -- you should see the data from the staff of the Galician Health Service, that is, people with contracts in the Galician Health Service, usually most of them with a statutory contract. In 2008 there was the Galego Health Service 33.176 and now 34.057, that is, the fixed template of Sergas increased to more than a thousand people during the time of economic recession. That is the result, Your Honor, of the employment policies of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] You should not argue that we have to comply with the basic laws of the State; therefore, public offers of employment are based on the authorized replacement rates. The theoretically authorized replenishment rate will see whether there is a budget, Mr Leicea - this is of interest to you just as we, I suppose, have assumed - but if there is a budget, we can get a public job offer of 820 squares. But if in that assumption the Socialist Party and the PP we agree that we can expand the public job offer, we are ready to take 1,600 steps from the public health job offer by 2017. That's our proposal, and that's what we propose. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Leicega, the number of doctors in Galicia exceeds seven thousand. 90% of these doctors have a statutory appointment, i.e., a fixed contract...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u40	...But we are, of course, Your Honor, committed to reducing the timing and commitment to increasing public job offers. Mr. Leicega, believe me, this health service in Galicia is one of the best health services in Europe. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u42	Yes, quickly. January 2009, health institutions, ministry data: Galicia, public, 35.079; and with this you have to compare if you don't want to make a little trap. In any case, as you told me about the CIS health barometer, I have to tell you that I consulted the barometer, in the first consultation for specialists, first consultation, almost 40% of those who have to go for more than three months; it is the second worst evaluation of autonomous communities. In diagnostic tests, from all autonomous communities, health barometers, Galicia is the one that later. And in non-emergency revenues in hospitals, we're above average. That's the data. The health barometer also tells us that, in the last twelve months, the assessment of waiting lists for the public has worsened, and over the last five years it has also done so in specialized care and hospital care; not in primary care, where there has been an improvement, which must be recognized as well. That's the data from the health barometer. You see — using Sergas data now —: Vigo EOXI, Anxiology and Vascular Surgery Service, appointment for consultation, 123 days; diagnostic test, 205 days; vascular surgery, 62.9 days. In total, 390.7 days, a year and a month in Vascular Anxiology and Surgery. This situation doesn't seem reasonable to us, and I'm sure you don't either. With regard to the precariousness, indeed, we must comply with the law, but firstly, we are in recovery and, secondly, I hope that you will be able to change the replacement rate in Madrid, because it will be a global agreement of all parties. And so I ask you to do the following: let's put in place a plan to stabilize health professionals, that in the case of doctors in four years we will be able to take forward 2,500 additional steps to fill the vacancies that are going to occur and be able to incorporate those that are in precarious conditions, and we have a commitment to replace 100 percent of all those cases where there are low, vacations, etc., etc. A hundred percent substitutions, which is what allows proper treatment of the population in these circumstances, and not now, that you know perfectly well that in many places when a primary health care doctor has vacations he is not given another one and thus paralyzes that attention at present.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u44	These must be, I think, the commitments that must be negotiated with the industry unions with a four-year plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u45	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Closure roll, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Leicega, I don't think it's very reasonable to go to the waiting list of a specific hospital to do an X-ray of the Welsh health system, too! But speaking of the CIS, 78.5% of the Greeks consider that health has improved or is equal to in recent years — 78.5% — we consider 65% that hospital consultations have improved, 66% that hospital care has improved and 58% that emergencies have improved. This is the data you haven't read, but that I have an obligation to read to inform all the Greeks. Look, Your Honor, between 2009 and 2016, surgical interventions increased by 37,000 more, that is 22% more. We operated 22% more people now than when you were in Sergas. In the times of waiting for what you mean, the urgent pathologies, with you were waiting for 28 days, now you're waiting for less than 20. That's a 30% discount on urgent pathologies. And the important pathologies, with you were waiting for 75 days, and now the average is 64 days, 15%. That's the reality, Mr. Leicega, of the whole. The number of hospital consultations: we're doing 335,000 consultations more a year. Doctors, health personnel, nursing and non-health workers are working more than ever, Mr. Leicega, and you have to congratulate them. And I think you should congratulate the Greek health care workers because they're doing more interventions, more consultations, more diagnostic evidence, and we're working a lot more than before, Mr. Yes, with a wage adjustment we're going to return from next month. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you were talking about primary care: 764,000 more consultations in 2016 about the year 2009—these are almost three quarters of a million more consultations of primary care doctors in Galicia—the emergencies attended: 30,000 more emergencies in 2016 than in 2015, the last year about the previous one. So, Mr. Leicega, if you recognize that there is greater surgical activity, if you recognize that there are more consultations, that there are more emergencies attended, and then you want to make me a critique, I consider it reasonable. Now, if all this denies that in Galicia we are working better, that public health services are working better, that we are building and expanding more hospitals than in the entire history of the Galician Health Service, you will understand that criticism seems unfair to me, and I disagree. It is not so blind to criticize me and to disturb the effectiveness of the Galician Health Service. Do we have an excellent Galego Health Service? The answer is yes. You're talking about public job offers. Mr. Leicega, we made 1,600 squarees during the time of economic recession, we always ran out of percentages to get job offers. Now he says there may be a pact for the 2017 public job offer. Do you know, Mr. Leicega, that this pact goes on to support the government of Spain's budgets?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u48	Don't you? Oh, no! Okay, so we're going to approve a public job offer that goes into the budget without approving the budget. Mr. Leicega, I think that kind of pacts you're talking about are pacts that don't stand up. But don't worry, Mr. Leicega, with agreement or without agreement, the doctors, the nursing staff and the rest of the health staff are Sergas's main asset.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u50	And that's why we're going to re-appropriate their purchasing capacity in this payroll. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luís Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, about the suffering that is causing the cuts in health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u52	Question by Mr Luís Villares Naveira, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to begin on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea by greeting the workers of Ferroatlantica who came here to defend their jobs, which is why we will always be on their side without any kind of ambiguity, without any kind of conditioning, in the defense of the jobs and the dignity of a whole region. And I said this the question we wanted to ask the president of the board was about health, what we just talked about now, but from the point of view of rights. The current state of health since 2009, in which Feijóo, the current president of the board, has taken the health incomes, has assumed a reduction in the budget of more than 12% in real terms, more than 590 million fewer budgets for health. This has had assistance consequences and benefits that meant 447 less hospital beds in the public hospitals of Greece and a reduction of more than one thousand seven hundred health-care professionals' squares. But it's not just a reduction in means, it means a reduction also of the rights that are provided, because the health organization is geared towards guaranteeing a number of rights: the right to health, the right to physical integrity, the right to moral integrity, the right to compensation and the right, ultimately, to life. The question is whether and how services were organized if these rights are being guaranteed correctly and, ultimately, whether the right to health is guaranteed correctly. There are a number of facts indicating the opposite, indicating that they are not being adequately guaranteed. We had to suffer as a result of the PP cuts part of the most tragic episodes in the history of health in Galicia. One of them related to how women had to travel to stop their pregnancy at Madrid hospitals because they couldn't do it here, and they did it in humiliating conditions and, in some cases, with severe suffering for their health and with sequelae. Situations that shouldn't have been repeated and much less for economic reasons. We also had to see tragically how people died in the case of hepatitis C because they didn't get the medication in time. Medicines that were denied to them for bureaucratic reasons, not for medical reasons, because there were orders not to dispensate them as a result of the cuts. And that was unacceptable in terms of guaranteeing people's right to health and the right to life. And you don't seem to care. Yesterday the Health Counsellor came to say that people and we talked about it, we talked about it, we talked about it, we talked about it. It was to speak in spite of the fact that at this very hour the Prosecutor's Office and the Provincial Court have sat in the bank of the investigators these two high charges, precisely not just for prevarication but also for reckless murder, for denying the drugs to the people who needed them. We know that you don't respect anything, that you don't respect opposition, that you don't respect people's word, but you respect at least the action of justice, that we understand you won't speak for speaking. And we also understand that they will surely not. And they won't because yesterday they didn't respect Alvia's victims, neither do they respect the victims of hepatitis C, how will you respect anything else like justice? But this isn't just about the past, it's about the present, unfortunately. In November, in Ourense, health professionals denounced the collapse of emergencies as a result of the fact that beds and spaces were occupied with hospitalization, and there was no emergency response. And they couldn't deal with emergencies because there was no place to do it and there was a higher risk of disease infection, patients were not treated in a reasonable time, and all this while units were closed for lack of personnel. This situation happened again in January, where even cancer patients...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u55	...and patients in palliative care had to share individual rooms of two, three and four people because there were no material and personal means to do so, despite the fact that these means exist and even though they are the best healthcare professionals in their homes as a result of their cuts. Is this the public health we deserve from the Greeks and the Greeks?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u57	Will you do something to keep these situations from happening again? Do you think it's appropriate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u58	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u59	...to maintain public health in these conditions? Operations that were scheduled were closed because there were no means...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u60	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u61	...to attend them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u62	Thank you. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I repeat to you what I said to the spokesman of the Socialist Party: I am proud of the Galician Health Service, you are not; there is a grave discrepancy. You think the Galician Health Service we have is an African service or the worst countries in the world. And you come here to describe the apocalypse of the public health service; it is noted that you do not know the public health service of the country. But is public health a pride for the President of Galicia? The answer is yes. Not for you. That's a big difference between the People's Party and the Tide. And that difference will continue to exist, Your Honor, because you come here and say what you want. We're used to your rigour. He says the troops have come down, and I have just believed that we now have a thousand more people with indefinite contracts in the Galician Health Service than when I took possession as president of the board. You come here and you say you've dropped the budget I don't know how much, but you don't distinguish between the health budget, the pharmaceutical budget, the total budget, that doesn't matter. Look, Your Honor, we have taken measures on pharmaceutical expenditure. For example, to tell the labs that when there are two drugs and one of them is generic, the logic is that generics are prioritized. Do you agree on this or not? I know your group in the previous legislation disagreed, even filed a complaint with the Constitutional Court, Your Honor. And the Constitutional Court gave Galicia the reason. And that's why if we do the comparison without pharmaceutical expense, the per capita health expenditure in Galicia has grown. Yes, Your Honor, it has grown. You should be a little more rigorous and the people who do the papers to you should study a little more, because coming here saying this is just a boutade that seems inappropriate to me of a person who knows about health. Look, Your Honor, the per capita expenditure in Galicia in 2010 was €1333. [[Applause]] If we took out the pharmacy, the per capita expenditure was 1,000 euros. Do you know how much it is now? Of EUR 1,034. They went up 33 euros per person, with 2,000 million euros less each year. What's your health model, Your Honor? Tell me exactly what the Autonomous Community has to copy Galicia. Because countries you're defending, where there's no medicine, I suppose that's not the health model you're proposing me to copy? [[Applause]] You, Your Honor, who has arrived in this Parliament being a Member for Lugo to go around Lugo. When we arrived there was nothing but a great building, which, by the way, had begun our government and were unable or equipped. We equip him as a whole and invest 60 million euros in Lucus Augusti Hospital: two accelerators, Nuclear Medicine and Hemodynamics. And in Marine Lucense, we're making the full plan of the Marine Lucense Hospital. And in Monforte, that their platforms told us that we were going to dismantle the hospital, it turns out that there are services of Dixestive Endoscopy, chemotherapy services and increased Traumatology Service. Mr For Lugo, you go to the province and compare the health inherited with the health at present. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u65	This deputy for Lugo was in Foz the other day and saw how people were taken from Pediatrics to be able to properly care for their children and children in the public. That's what the honourable Member came for Lugo the other day! [[Applause]] And this deputy for Lugo the other day came as it happened in Baralla, as the Pediatric Service was reduced so that children and children could be properly cared for in public health. That is what this Member sees for Lugo! [[Applause]] This is what a Member sees as a public health worker who is in public health, and who goes around here and there, not only in the province of Lugo but throughout the country, because we are Members all over the country, to see how public health is. And what we've seen here is not to bring in invented things, they're real data, they're reported, real facts, by real people and by real groups who work in public health and defend public health because they guarantee fundamental rights. And that's why we're here defending fundamental rights for everyone, regardless of their social status and income, to have a right to it, regardless of the place of the territory where they live, because we do want the solidarity of the whole country regardless of the place and their possibilities. That's what we believe! This is the health in which we believe! And that's why we have to come to denounce facts that are not of the past, that are of the present. And that's why we came here today and now, as did the Galician Mental Health Defense Movement the other day, two facts that happened even in January at the Psychiatric Hospital in Conxo: the suicide of one person more the sexual aggression of another, which happened in a painful way related to the cuts and the lack of means that are available to care for patients entering this unit. And we don't say so, tell him the professional associations that are working with these collectives, and that are working within public health: the right to physical and moral compensation is not being adequately guaranteed, to physical and moral integrity or to sexual compensation in these cases. And that's what we've come to denounce here that a number of reforms are necessary to ensure better fundamental rights, which is something that is not being done. How can a person who enters a hospital for an attempted suicide commits suicide in a hospital? There's obviously something that doesn't work. They recognize it at least, because if they don't recognize it, they can't solve it. And secondly — to end with another fact and with respect to the guarantee of the right to dignity of persons — one person died the other day while waiting to be cared for in emergencies, after waiting for more than an hour, one person died in the boxes of Santiago hospital hoping to be cared for. It's possible that the outcome of her illness led her to that final fact, but she could die otherwise and not in the corridor waiting to be cared for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u67	...after more than an hour. We defend the right to health, defend the right to life and defend the right to dignity of all people in the public health system. And this is where they will always find us: defending dignity and defending public health for all and for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u68	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Closure roll, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, there's a lot left to kick to know public health, I assure you. I'm sure there's a lot left to kick to know the public health of our country. I think you know her very well. It should be valued at least because we have one of the best health services in Europe. And as you can imagine, I know something about health. So, Your Honor, when I hear you talk with that frivolity about the issues, when I hear you talk about a person who dies in emergencies with that frivolity, without knowing the patient's clinical history, without knowing exactly what the primary care doctor's point is when he makes the last attempt to shift the patient to the hospital, and you bring this matter to the House, you will understand that in the matter of health it's not possible to take it seriously at the moment. And that's why I would like you not to have made this kind of perverse use of public health in the following health questions, in respect of the family members of the patient, in respect of the Galician Health Service, and in respect of all the doctors and all the nursing staff of the Emergency Service at the hospital in Santiago. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, all the health indicators are improving in our country; life expectancy, rising. All of you, Your Honor. From 2004 to 2013, life expectancy at birth increased by 1.84 years. Infant mortality: 1,000 live births in 2004 died 3.3; in 2013 a 2.1; a decrease of 36.3%. Your Honor, this is for the rigorous work of the Galician Health Service. But as you have just told the House that you are willing to go through the country to really find out about the country you represent, because you do this tour and you will see that the Galician Health Service has invested nearly 80 million euros in renewing the technological apparatus in all hospitals. You know why? Because during economic kindness, it's not done. You will check, for example, here in this Santiago Health Area, that you criticize, that we have one of the best services of Cardiology and Hemodynamics in Europe. You'll also check that we have a magnetic nuclear resonance and a new linear accelerator. He'll check that we're renewing the TACs. He'll check Pontevedra, Your Honor, that we'll expand Pontevedra's hospital to 90,000 square meters more after an agreement with the municipality. You will check in Salnès — I ask you to go — that we are extending the hospital and that the hospital in Salnès is practically finished. You'll check the Coruña, Your Honor, that after multiplying by four the Emergency Area we're changing the entire surgical block, twenty-four new surgeries, and we have to go on, because in the Coruña hospital we have a lot left to do. You will check, Your Honor, that in Ourense we are about to deliver a whole hospital building with nearly 50 million euros of investment, because Ourenses also have the right to have individual rooms as other citizens already have in the Galician Health Service. You'll check, Your Honor, that in the Navy we're making the plan director, always committed and never executed; now at last if you're in that Navy hospital. You'll see that in Ferrol today you've just examined the full extension master plan of the Ferrol hospital. You'll check, Your Honor, after slandering Vigo's hospital, that we're in one of Spain's best hospitals. And we don't say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u71	...of the people who scored the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro. You will check, Your Honor, that we have one of the best health services in the country. And so, look, if we have less wait, if we take care of more people, if we do more activity, if we do more hospital income, if we attend more people at home, if we have more consultations and more diagnostic evidence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u73	...then it won't be for your constructive attitude, but it's because of your commitment to public health for all health professionals and this government that I honour to preside over. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Just like you told me yesterday... Yes, Mrs. Pontón, why do you want the word? Give a voice to Mrs. Pontón's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u75	Well, Mr President, on the basis of Article 76, which you know about the decoration of the groups, I mean that, of course, there is a popular saying, and popular wisdom is very important, that it does not offend who wants but who can. In any case, the president of the board...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u76	What was the lack of decorum?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u77	Allow me, Mr. President. The president of the board said during his speech that our group was in favour of defending...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u78	Well, Mrs. Pontón, that's not an offensive word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u79	...to defend the interests of workers and workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u80	It's not a word that misses the decorum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u81	With regard to this group and to the Greeks and the Greeks that we represent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u82	No, no, no, no. That's it, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u83	...I ask the President of the Board not to degrade the opposition and to remove the word "incorporate", because what we are doing, Mr. President, is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u84	Excuse me, Mrs. Pontón, you don't have the floor. No, that's it. You don't have the floor. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Allusions as you well know value the presidency. [[Balbordo.]] Yes, yes, it's the regulation. I don't think the word "remember" and in the tone it was said offended no one. No, therefore, we continue with the agenda. Question by José Manuel Lago Peñas and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the reasons for the increase recorded in Galicia, from January to November 2016, of the number of persons affected by an employment regulation file
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u85	In this case, as the other day has been reported to amend the agenda, it is up to Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. If you want to get close to your seat, you can formulate it. Give a voice to Mr. Lago's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u86	Good morning. In yesterday's intense session the Economic, Industry and Employment advisor said that all the indicators of the Greek economy were green. A few days ago, the Ministry of Employment and Social Security published the progress of employment regulation statistics from January to November 2016. In this statistics we reflect data that are very worrying for Galicia, and I think it would be a red indicator, because there is a very significant increase in the number of people affected by employment regulation files in Galicia, while their low figure in Spain. As you know, the evolution of employment regulation records is linked to economic activity, because when companies go badly more workers are regulated and when there is a low recovery in the number of people affected by employment regulation files. That's why it's hard to understand that in the first eleven months of 2016 the number of people affected by an ERE grows considerably, because there would be a contradiction between the green indicator that everything goes well and the red indicator that there is more job regulation. The Union should be able to explain why Galicia is — another negative differential — the second autonomous community with the worst evolution in 2016 in employment regulation, only behind Balearics. And I should also explain why the files that grow older are the ones that fire workers. Faced with the rhetoric of labour reform that was being done for dismissal to be the last step and that flexibility measures had previously been applied, what did the 2016 statistics say? That 58% increase the number of redundancy workers compared to 2015 and that workers and workers included in day-to-day employment regulation files are reduced, which would therefore be the extent to which they would facilitate, to avoid using redundancy. I think this highlights the objective of employment reform. A reform that, by the way, eliminated the prior administrative authorization; a competition that the autonomous communities have, which had the Galician Union to authorize files and which the 2012 reform cancelled. I ask the question, which I already see in red: what is the reason that from January to November 2016 the number of people affected by a job regulation file increases by 12% in Galicia, compared to the same period in 2015, while in Spain its number has fallen by about 16%? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u87	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Lago, you know perfectly well that the economy is measured with many variables and that, therefore, it is the sum of all of them that allows us to assess to what extent the situation that goes through an economy is. In fact, yesterday, you actually tested this with a data battery that all you wanted to do was make an absolutely catastrophic and negative reading of the Greek reality. Some data that I told you yesterday that some were not true, but that there were two realities about your reading: first, you know that in Galicia, like in Spain, you lived between the years 2008 and 2013 the biggest crisis in your history and that this has also led most countries in the world to a really complicated situation. You in that reading that you want to move here in red and that I move in green, because it seems to focus on all these comparisons in 2008-2009, and I sincerely — and I say it with all my cordiality — believe that this kind of analysis does not respond to the reality that has the Greek economy or the trend of the Greek economy that is developing at this time. In fact, I'm talking about red indicators because in Galicia the industrial production index in 2016 rose by 4.1%, in Spain by 1.6; I'm talking about exports multiplying by almost four its growth with respect to Spain; I'm saying unemployment in 2016 dropped by 10%; I'm saying that indefinite recruitment has increased by two and a half points above the economy. And today brings me the evolution of the 2016 ERE. And you know, if you analyze the data, that the main reason your reading is on the ERE that presented Psa Citroën in March 2016, and you know that your application is temporary until March 2018. And you know perfectly well that publishing that data reflects is the maximum that a company can lead to developing both extinction measures and suspension means, which is also the case with Citroën. And you know that in this case the real data is that not all of the people that are listed in those figures are being affected, because the people who are actually being affected are 243 by extinction measures against the 400 included in the file, and 173 over 1,238 people in the suspension, that is, 60% and 14% respectively. They're timely adjustments, but logically, I'm saying that the trend of the Greek economy is green...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u89	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u90	...it's not red. And I'm sorry you keep making comparisons that are anachronistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u91	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u92	Counselor, I think it was wrong with the role of the answer, because it says "anachronic" and I was talking about January-November 2016 compared to January-November 2015. That's time, an official statistic. Let me give you a sentence that I'm sure you know: every properly tortured statistic always ends up confessing the truth. So when you start pulling the guts in the statistics, you're doing a reading. I ask you a very specific question: why in Galicia workers and workers affected by employment regulation files increase by 12% in 2016, in the year of recovery, and in Spain by 16%? And I'm asking why the number of lay-offs through employment regulation files increases by 58% in Galicia. And you think it's wrong to answer because you tell me we have a problem on the car, that we're firing workers on the car, that there's employment regulation on the car. But was this not the sector that marked the splendid green light of the Welsh economy, which was one of the examples of the management of the Galician Union? [[Applause]] The contradiction, Counselor, that I'm trying to prove in this Chamber is that there are things that are going well but that do not move into people's lives. I don't deny that GDP is growing by 3%; what I'm saying is that GDP is growing by 3% serves to increase business profits, but it doesn't serve to improve the living conditions of working people. And that's exactly where the government's responsibility is, because the economy grows, that Citroën sells vans, SUVs or other vehicles is in business logic. The government's role is to get this to work to improve living conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u93	Thank you, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u94	...and the employees' work. And that's the denunciation: green light for the economy, red light for the workers and the workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u95	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I am obliged to repeat what I said one day: you know how economist a data doesn't make the trend and many yes. And you come here permanently to this House trying to transfer a data that tries to manifest a trend, and that as an economist, who is and who knows, is not. So, I don't think it's about moving an impression that's not true through a fact that -- I insist -- is what you're trying to permanently transfer to this House. And indeed, you should explain to us, for everyone to understand us, that the data published by ERE is maximum data and that, depending on the evolution of the company, not necessarily all they end up in a dismissal and not all they end up even in a temporary suspension, and that logically depends on the evolution of the company itself. And the fact that you bring me from 2016 is a data that has an explanation on time, which I think is good for everyone to know and which, therefore, we get to it. And it is that, indeed, Citroën presents with an agreement with the unions, by the way, an employment regulation file, both in suspension and dismissal, which is not leading to the maximum because its production needs go hand in hand and also meet the needs of the workers. So I insist that I believe you are mistaken that the trend and analysis of the evolution of the Greek economy must always be due to the fact that you consider it appropriate and do not reflect on the data of the economy as a whole. And if we talk about unemployment, Your Honor, unemployment is coming down in Galicia. It's coming down, and 2016 has come down over 10%. And you know it and you don't want to recognize it. And when you're talking about unemployment, you're here talking about the comparison of 2008 and 2009, and that's anachronistic about the trend that's developing the Greek economy. I, Mr Lago, indeed, believe that I should return to the debate of ideas — which, by the way, is where you develop well — and leave the timely data you are trying to move here as a trend, and you know perfectly well that they are not a trend. The trend of the economy is green, and I think we have to keep working and we have to continue to support the automotive sector, and the rest of the sectors, so that this green can be maintained and that, indeed, the consolidation of economic recovery, job creation and the creation of quality jobs are a record, and Galicia can continue to have indicators above the average of the state, which is what is really happening right now in the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u97	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Luís Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece in front of the announcement of the sale by the company Ferroatlantica of the hydroelectric power plants of the river Xallas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u98	Mr. Casal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u99	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. The Government and the People's Group say that they don't understand that we insist on the sale of the railways, that we only want to create uncertainty in the workers and in the citizenry, but what creates uncertainty are statements like those of Mr Feijóo today. A few minutes ago Mr. Feijóo said there was nothing official about the sale of the power stations. And there is, a communication relevant to American stock exchange regulators, and I'm sure you know that communicating false information to stock exchange regulators is a crime in the United States. And we don't think Ferroglobe and Mr. Villar Mir and Mr. Larrea want to risk being prosecuted in that country. In addition, we have information that Mr Larrea and representatives of the Brookfield Investment Fund — which according to Ferroglobe's information has already acquired the plants — met with representatives of the Galician Union. Counsellor, did you produce those meetings? What moved them to the lords of Brookfield? Did they clearly tell them that the sale is illegal and therefore impossible? Selling the power stations is evident with the announcement to American stock exchange regulators, which is not so evident — it's the dichotomy Mr. Feijóo put forward — it's the investments of 100 million euros, which are only a promise, and believing in the promises of someone who keeps them failing repeatedly, it's a really suicidal strategy. Another concern about today's response is that he said textually: "We have no belief that public interest changes, and if the public interest can change with the investment promise of 100 million euros, we'll study it." There's nothing to study, to make investments and industrial plans, the best guarantee is precisely non-segregation and to prevent sales. The yields of the power stations would at least enable a possible industrial plan with EUR 150 million, without needing to malsale the power stations and the water of all the Greeks. Therefore, public interest not only changes but strengthens itself, and it should demand the Ferroatlantic which invests the enormous benefits that power stations bring to it at the Ferroatlantic facilities themselves and in the region, as the concession says. And this is urgent, because, for example, oven 22, which is what really keeps the company's viability, is in an absolutely limited situation, with permanent leaks, and less bad than at the moment only occurred on the sides of the oven, that if one day they occur at the base of the oven, we would have a serious problem, and probably lead to the closure of the factory. By all means, we ask the Government again, and we hope it will respond clearly, to reassure the workers and the whole region, what will the Government of the Union do in the light of the finding of the sale of the Ferroatlantic power stations to Brookfield? Will the German Government communicate to American stock exchange regulators that sales are impossible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u100	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, I regret that you come to this House to question, permanently, the Government's claims in this House itself, and that you feel that what the president says or what the counselor says is not true, and therefore you insist on moving a completely different reality. Look, the position of the Galician Union didn't vary a single millimeter in this matter. You know perfectly well that the government's priority is to comply with the law and, of course, to ensure the maintenance of industrial activity and to safeguard the public interest of the concession, and the president just lets you believe that perfectly clear this very morning, which at no time, Your Honor, the company has requested authorization for the sale of the power stations. You may believe it or not, but it is so said in this House by the Government, and I remind you that, in fact, at no time has the company requested authorization for the sale of the power stations. So, if you allow me, the Government can speak and speak when you present some kind of request, if you come forward, and the workers have a commitment from this government, just as you have a commitment from the mayors, that we will always comply with the law, we will always safeguard the public interest and we will always, we will always be with the workers defending the job. And this they know perfectly well, because we moved it directly to the mayors; they know the majority unions, because even if they don't create us, we're in contact with them -- even if they don't create us -- and they know it, perfectly, the workers, because we're also in contact with them. Therefore, Your Honor, I sincerely believe that we can logically debate in this House all the aspects that you consider appropriate, but what I can assure you is that although you do not believe that this is so, and that you doubt the administrative right — which I think should be the last to make of a Member, to doubt the application of administrative law — this government will always be in compliance with the law, it will always be defending public interest, logically linked to industrial activity, and logically we will be employed. And have no doubt that we will follow the workers' side, we will follow their families' side, and I just think, Mr. Casal, that they should be more rigorous in their claims and not talk about hypotheses that lead to nothing, and this government is being clear and transparent. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u102	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u103	Counsellor, we do not doubt your statements or those of the President, indeed, did not change the position of the Government, the sale does not exist, that is the position of the Government. Okay, looks like we live in a parallel world. And they also argue that they will repeatedly defend public interest, but we see that this public interest can change to become private interest, we see it here in the room today. The president of the Union made it very clear that public interest could change with that hypothetical 100 million industrial plan, which Mr. Villar Mir has already offered three times in the last 20 years, and has never met the least. Any mus player would know what Mr. Villar Mir is doing, which is going to fatten, and those who don't know the mus, is not playing right now until he has no good cards. Indeed, Mr. Villar Mir will not formally present the petition before you until he has coerced the whole region, until he has all the media — that you feed generously — in your favor, which he does not have at present. And the government is playing the girl, and you know that girl player, muster. The government has to react, and there is a finding that there is an official observation to the stock exchange regulators, and perhaps what is inappropriate for the right is to hide relevant information from American stock exchange regulators, which the Greek Government has, which is that centrals cannot be sold. That's what we need to communicate, and if you communicate — that you can legally do it, because if it's information relevant to American investors — that sales, according to Spanish legislation, and concessions made by Galician Waters are impossible, that's not being out of administrative law, that's to comply with the law, to comply with the law and to give true information to potential investors in power stations, which could be seen in a very serious problem if they face the investment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u105	...and within a year or two a court has already rejected it, or within three years a new government led by En Marea would surely refuse it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u106	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u107	I insist, Your Honor, that we should be much more prudent in the statements being moved in this House, to be much more rigorous and not to transfer uncertainties that really don't happen. And I'm sorry that you bring here a comparison of mos game, because this is no game. Work and employment in Ferroatlantics, employment and employment in Soapón, employment and employment linked to the railway is no game. But, well, since you're trying to move that situation, I'm going to tell you about Seneca, which seems much more appropriate to me. Seneca said, "What you don't want to live among the righteous, living in the desert." And it seems that you are striving to live in the desert and to live in a reality totally different from what's happening. That's what happens to them in Marea, and what happens to them when, logically, they have to ask citizens for their vows, who live in reality and live in a totally different desert. Your Honor, this government has to measure, logically, by the enforcement of the law, which is what we will do. And you can't invent a law, no, no! you must fulfill it, and the workers and mayors have the guarantee of this government that we will comply with the law. Second, we'll keep an eye on the public interest. The president didn't mention that he could change that public interest, said he was going to work to safeguard the public interest, which is totally different. That's why I think it should be much more rigorous and not try to transfer totally incorrect messages, which try to distort reality. It should not be out of responsibility and respect for the workers; it should not, Mr. Casal, and your group should not do it or use it partisanly. Because this government, I insist, is with the workers, is going to ensure compliance with the law, will guarantee the safeguard and public interest and will be defending, like nobody else, the workers and the job situation in the area. And that, I insist, the mayors know, they know the majority unions, they know the workers, they know the company committee of Sabón, they know the company committee of Cee-Dumbria, and they know it perfectly. It seems that you are in a completely different reality, both the Galician Nationalist Block and the Marea Nationalist Block, a totally different reality, and I regret that you continue to develop your political activity in the desert. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u108	Thank you, Counselor. Let's go back to the agenda and go back to point 4, which is non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Galician people, at the initiative of Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and eight other Members, on the preparation by the Government of Galicia, with the participation of the Galician External Action Council, a report on the possible impact of Brexit on the Greek economy and its productive sectors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u109	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales and by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u110	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Puy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. As we all know, last June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which the option that advocated for the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union reached 51.9 % of the votes, while those who campaigned and defended that the United Kingdom would be stronger in the European Union got 41.1 % of the votes, which has generated significant domestic, general and international political consequences. First of all, the resignation of the Conservative Prime Minister, Mr Cameron, who has been paradoxically replaced by a lady of the Conservative Party too, who defended the vote of permanence in the European Union and is ruling around by the most aggressive Eurosceptics of the Conservative Party. It also opened, since the referendum was positive, the stay in both Northern Ireland and Scotland opened up old issues that were already half-solved, such as the peace process, which was largely based on Ireland's reunification, in the context of membership of the European Union. So, logically, by the Scottish independenceists who say that the referendum, which they accepted as permanent in the United Kingdom, was based on the continuity of the United Kingdom in the European Union. And it has also generated a social crisis — perhaps the most deplorable — with a wave of xenophobia and even some aggressions against people of other nationalities living, or living, in the Kingdom. There's a lot to learn from this referendum, I think the main thing is that we often don't realize how important most of us are. I mean, consensualist democracies — as is the case with our written Constitution — about unwritten constitutions that rely on the principle of simple majority when it comes to discussing, approving and debating issues that deeply affect generations and the lives of many people. It also provides to logically reflect on the populism of a campaign that all sources report was based on a lot of confusion and in a lot of uncertainty — as you might say using that term. For example, the confusion that arose before the British electorate of immigration — especially from the European Union — with the problems of refugees, which were very evident during the campaign at the time of Calais. And also to see opportunism where it can lead, and in particular in the case of the Labour Party — traditionally very pre-European, since Community legislation defends workers better than other Anglo-Saxon models, which have adopted a warm stance. As the former Labour Prime Minister, Mr Blair has just denounced, when he says that the Labour Party's warm position has contributed precisely to the failure of the permanent referendum. By adding that two-thirds of the Labour MPs present at Westminster also support stay in the European Union. Which opens up a major crisis in the major British opposition party. Because, in fact, Brexit has a lot of costs, the pound has been depreciated by 20%, which means that the English people and the British workers have become impoverished by 20% in relation to Europeans. Despite that, exports have not increased, and the German case is exceptionally revealing. The IGE data has just been published, and it is seen that in the past year, exports from Greece to the United Kingdom have increased by 40%, and imports have dropped by 40%, despite this devaluation of the UK pound to Galicia. The direct costs of leaving the United Kingdom to the European Union, because there are various calculations, even today Mr Juncker reports in the press that the banana goes from 72,800 million euros, in the case above, to 24,500, in the case below; as a result of the debts of the projects under way and even of the retirements of officials of the European Union, to which the country leaving the European Union has to contribute. Finally, it opens up a problem with regard to the movement of free trade and movement of goods in the world, reaffirming the the thesis of protectionism, which is already beginning to see Mrs May who has consequences when she spoke to Mr Trump and realized that it is not the same thing for 500 million people, as the European Union does, that for 65, however important that it is that market, which is the British that are part of the English market. The foreseeable impact on GDP, therefore, is a decrease in all of us in this process, mainly in English, estimates of around 1.5 % of annual GDP in the coming year after the exit procedure is opened. And I can also quote the rest of the European Union, particularly estimates of 0.4% of Spanish GDP, and about the same in the case of Galicia. We're finally in the face of an operation that has caused uncertainty. It opens up an absolutely new scenario, because it is the first time a State decides to leave the European Union. They're going to change some geostrategic concepts, which I don't think is smaller and important to Galicia. The Franco-German axis is going to be strengthened in relation to the Atlantic axis at European level, international trade is going to fall, a decline is expected. There will be trade diversion effects. Obviously, there is a certain fear of the contagious effect, although some are confident that the contagious effect of British or American populisms in the presidential elections will turn into a vaccine effect for French and Dutch voters, to quote those who will soon have an electoral process. In view of this scenario, Galicia must be ready, there is a lot of concern in many of the Greek sectors about Brexit's development. The situation is as follows: the United Kingdom will have to report the abandonment of the European Union in accordance with Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. There will be a negotiation. This negotiation will come out with a draft to be adopted by the European Council, but no less than by the vote of 20 out of the 27 countries representing 65% of the population. Then this must be ratified by the European Parliament. If this process is not closed in two years, there are two alternatives left: that is to prolong negotiations or, on the contrary, to extinguish the relationship with the United Kingdom. But that does not even imply that this process of abandonment of the European Union by the United Kingdom determines what the relationship with the United Kingdom will be, because once it leaves the United Kingdom the European Union, it would have to open a new process in which it would have to count on the new regime of relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union with the approval of the entire members of the European Union. So ratification by the 27 states also changes what is the power of negotiation in relation to the new situation. This, of course, poses many challenges for the European Union, Spain and, of course, for Galicia. It will have institutional effects, and within the European institutions, effects on budget. We are talking about that the United Kingdom — which is one of the most important countries and economies in Europe, with a per capita income above the average — will leave political space and institutions, and hence its financial contribution. For example, at this time the United Kingdom's net contribution is EUR 5 billion per year to regional policies. Telling what's spent there would be 3,000 of a total of 50,000, but it can also affect the German, Belgian, Austrian and Swedish cheques, which are connected to the British check. The possible contribution to the European Union which would like Norway — which has an agreement with the European Union to access the common market — could also influence. So there are budgetary effects even though we don't know what they are. It will logically affect the composition of Community bodies, starting with the European Committee of the Regions. And it also affects the basic pillars of what the Common Market is; first of all, capital movements. The other day the councillor reported that there were approximately 130 ships in Galicia that are fishing in British waters, of which only about 30, have a Welsh flag, the rest are investments of Greek capital in ships that are made under British flag, or in British waters or in Malvinas waters. It will also, of course, influence the circulation of foreign trade. As I said at the moment, foreign trade with the United Kingdom represents almost 8% of Galician exports. The trade balance is fundamentally favourable, we're talking about that of the 1,600 million euros that we export to England, the counterpart is 267 million euros that we import from England. Or, what is the same, of the 4,500 million euros of favourable commercial balance which Galicia has, 1,300 correspond to the United Kingdom — despite the depreciation of 20% of the pound. There are many sectors exporting to the United Kingdom, 17% of Lower Rías, which accounts for 80% of total Galician wine exports, goes to the United Kingdom; and in the field of conservation, 8% of exports — according to Anfaco data — are also exported to the United Kingdom. And the third worst thing is for people is the people of Greece, students, families who have relatives and relatives in the United Kingdom, who will again have to go through customs, borders, work permits, residence permits, passports, in many cases with personal dramas of family breakups. In short, we would like the British to reconsider their position. A person summarizing well the UK's trajectory, the Irish born British and buried in Paris, Oscar Wilde, said that if one tells the truth he can be sure that sooner or later he will be discovered. We hope that the truth of the advantages of belonging to the European Union by the United Kingdom will be rediscovered...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u112	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u113	...and the United Kingdom does not abandon that. But we think we have to put ourselves at the worst. Galicia needs to prepare for the scenarios that open up and analyse the effects Brexit has on the institutional, financial, capital and property movement. And to ensure that the effect on the Galician economy and on Galician families and citizens is as low as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u114	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u115	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u116	Thank you. Good morning. Good morning to all and to all. Well, since the Galician Nationalist Block we want to take advantage of this intervention, this positioning around the proposal brought by the People's Party, to point out some issues that we think are generally neglected by the Galician Union's foreign policy, in particular, by the proposal that is being brought here today. Since the BNG we have always understood, and we have defended, the need for our country to have its own voice on the international stage and in all areas where decisions are made that affect important pillars of our economy as is the rural environment or as is, for example, fishing — which Mr Puy referred to earlier — in particular, all these aspects that have to do with how our economy develops and how it can take advantage of its potential. We understand that, too, our role in the world must be that voice which is the principal approach to building a different world, where we believe it should be based on principles, often forgotten by the European Union, which we have today, based on the sovereignty of the peoples, social justice, peace, cooperation between the different nationalities. And that's why we've maintained a critical position with an international framework that, because of the weight of state forces, has led our country to play a more subordinate role in this international context. We understand that it is time for this to change and if we are presented that in front of Brexit we have to think and act, we with that deep philosophy agree, but we think that it is insufficient central only in Brexit. In the last few days we have seen the approval of the whole CETA reference, we understand that it is something that should also be taken into account in some kind of study. In addition, we understand that it limits it to what the External Action Council has been — leaving out other agents such as the Economic and Social Council, or as the university researcher field — because it leaves the subject — we think — in a mere report, which will already be conditioned on a part, which will be conditioned, in addition, by a very pesorative vision — as it became clear — of what is the decision-making that has legitimly taken by the people of the United Kingdom. We believe that we have to take foreign policy in any other way, that we must actually study this Brexit phenomenon, but also some others who are putting themselves above the international stage: like CETA itself, as well as the lunatic competition we talked about yesterday and so on. We understand that in this sense all the theoretical and professional reflection that is made — and that is, of course, necessary — must be linked to a political strategy, which is based on a greater defence of the Greek economic interests, through direct negotiation of economic agreements with third countries, for example, or through greater demands in the context of negotiations that will finally be taken by us in other parliaments. So we understand that it's a little incomplete the panorama that is presented in order to meet the needs of the context. We're at a time when we need some foreign policies that are more committed to those values that I've named. Assessing Brexit, but not just, and we can't overlook the background, that need for an own, more dynamic foreign policy. And it really gives us the feeling that, both in the exhibition that was made here, and in the deliberation that is introduced into the non-law proposition, it actually makes a little criminalizing assessment of the will of the United Kingdom. Regardless of the debates that we may have about the constitutional frameworks of each people, and how decisions are made so transcendentally, it is also true that there is a popular force of many points in our country, and many points internationally, which questions the current model of the European Union and which questions that the agreements which have been made there seriously affect different sectors, such as what I was commenting on from CETA, and how this can affect — by setting an example — protected designations of origin. So I think that these issues also need to be talked about and that we cannot criminalize all the critical voices from the start of this European Union model that exists from the different political forces and from different agents, both national and international. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. I think today talking about external relations, international relations, we have to say that we are facing an absolutely black day for international law and an absolutely black day for human rights: today the hunt for immigrants in the United States began. Yesterday Amnesty International published its 15/16 Report on whether or not respect for human rights, and I therefore believe that this should be the frontispician in speaking about international relations at present. Of course, we are grateful that the voices we presented at some of the Commission's 1st sessions were heard on the basis of the preliminary work of the Greek External Action Agenda, where the different groups called for specific treatment on the possible impact of Brexit on the economy, and not only on the economy, but on the whole of the problems of our autonomous community. Because, even yesterday, the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, spoke of the fact that the process, Brexit, was going to assume — they are strong words — a huge bill for the British. We have a complicated situation in terms of international relations, we have a complicated situation in terms of protectionism, in terms of xenophobia, and, therefore, it is true that — the whole of Spain — Galicia must also prepare itself, in the European context, to address the activation of Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. The data we need to take into account — and some of them previously referred to in the presentations by the speakers — are important and worrying in this regard. The National Institute of Statistics tells us that approximately 100,000 Spaniards reside in the United Kingdom, and the Galego Institute of Statistics tells us that about 14,000 Greeks. I say about this because the data is absolutely unreliable here, there are many authorized voices that speak of this population as being superior in the United Kingdom. And we have to take into account, in economic terms, that budgets and autonomic growth are being supported and betted in a clear way towards 2017, for example, in our export capacities. The United Kingdom is the fourth destination of our exports, after France, Portugal or Italy, according to ICEX data. And it's recent, precisely, that new exporter record of Spain in 2016, which in Galicia means that it is approaching a sum of 1,400 million euros in exports, that is, a growth of 50% more than 2015. We have taken very seriously in Galicia that 70% of this export to the United Kingdom is textile and automotive, which is why the province of Coruña respects is 47% of Galicia's total exports. But the external trade data of December 2016 indicate that there is a backlog of sales to the United Kingdom of a fall of –5.6, specifically punishing the automotive sector. All this data must make us very aware of the need, indeed, to study the Brexit process. Some of these lines presented exactly the economic scenario report of the Galician Economic Forum in its October 2016 report, and told us that still on this stage, assuming the fourth position of the United Kingdom of exports, Galicia's prior concern could be scarce. With all this uncertainty data from Brexit itself and the international set itself, that uncertainty, those indicators of uncertainty and the indicators of economic sentiment presented by the forum should make us reflect on the need to position ourselves and, above all, prepare ourselves. In this respect, we have tabled precisely an amendment to addendum, because we believe that this report which the Council of Galicia wants to carry out on the impact of Brexit with the External Action Council is a report which, by its composition, by the administrative strength of the Council itself, would need to have a higher rank. That is why we propose as an amendment that the Council of the European Union — once received this report — should raise the report to the Galician Economic and Social Council to present its final ruling before this House by 31 May 2017. It is precisely because, according to Law 6/1995 itself, the Galician Economic and Social Council is the only body where the whole of Galician socio-professional organizations is represented. Of course, neither the House of Lords nor this House will be able to stop the British's decision, but if we have an obligation to prepare ourselves for this new situation. It's a double obligation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u119	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u120	...both in terms of the protection of our Greeks, who are living in the United Kingdom, and to transfer the greatest certainty to our business fabric. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u121	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u122	Good morning. How relaxed are these debates of international policy! We had to do it more often. Well, I'll agree with Mr. Pedro Puy, Brexit is a problem. But more than one problem is a symptom, because it is the realization that Europe is no longer an attractive model for citizenship. So the most urgent thing is to address a process of profound reform to build a social Europe, a Europe at the service of citizenship, not of elites and bureaucracy. A Europe which defends human rights, public services and the state of well-being, which precedes the interests of the majority of society over those of banking and multinational companies. From Europe like this, no one, not even the British, would want to leave. It was about black days, today a black day. The European Council has just blocked the implementation of the Tobin rate, the international financial transaction rate. With this model, the model of Europe at the service of the financial oligopolis and capital, of the great capital, it is understandable that citizenship, even the British, is angry. Brexit highlights the crisis of the European political project, and affected by a huge democratic deficit, by blindly applying austerity policies, giving back millions of citizens who are doomed to exclusion and poverty, raising regrettable walls as refugees sink on our coasts, the European Union — I would say the neoliberal direction of the European Union process — has achieved something that seems impossible, which is already doubtful of its own future. We are in a very worrying situation, because unless there is an immediate correction of European policies, Brexit can be the beginning of the process of disintegration of the European Union. Because it inevitably leads to an increase in Euroscepticism and the demands for exceptionality to Community legislation by other states of the union. The consequences between the set of factors that have created this disaffectation of citizenship towards the European Union, the main ones, are neoliberal economic policies that have caused unemployment, poverty and increased social inequality. Tax austerity policies have made a large part of European citizenship afraid of the European Union's construction process and inevitably identify the euro with the adjustment policies. The important democratic deficit in the decision-making of the European Union, and it must be said, is the unfortunate spectacle to resolve the humanitarian crisis of refugees. That inability of the European Union to solve this social drama, allowing people fleeing the war in Syria to die on our backs, has just deteriorated the image of the European Union. The consequences of Britain's departure will be negative for workers and workers, for the British without any doubt — I say we are against the departure of Great Britain from the European Union — but also for the people who work there. People working there, because European Community legislation on social protection will cease to apply immediately and the free movement of persons will disappear. And it's an incognito—and there the Galician Union must have an immediate action—of how that will affect the rights of the tens of thousands of men and women, of the workers and the workers of Greece who are in the United Kingdom. I'm going to the end. To do a study is fine, in this case it is possible that when the study is finished it will serve little, because with the electoral process that we have above, with the Dutch elections, the presidential elections in France and the elections in Germany in September, the future is uncertain. It's not bad for us to study, but this study, in addition to analyzing the economic consequences of Brexit, has to do something else, because if it wasn't clearly incomplete. We believe that at least it should act in two lines: firstly, to contemplate, to foresee and to act on the consequences for the lives of the dozens of thousands of Greeks and Greeks who live and work in the United Kingdom today; and secondly, most importantly, to include in that study what changes in the European economy, in the world economy, the consequences of CETA, the Treaty with Canada and the TTIP will have to do. Because, it's true Brexit will mean problems for the economy and for the lives of people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u124	..but it's more true that CETA and TTIP, which are already approved, in the case of CETA, will have much more immediate and much more negative effects. So we would ask for an extension of the study to analyze the impact of CETA and TTIP, and the impact of Brexit on the lives of the men and women of our country who work in the United Kingdom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u125	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u126	Well, it's true that the only decisions that can stop are the British, I can be on this in excess of idealist or pardillo, but I believe that British electoral processes will have an opportunity to reflect the consequences of Brexit and a more pondered reflection. Not all Labourmen and all Conservatives are in favour of Brexit, and there is some party, such as the liberal Social Democratic, who is in favour of the European Union. Time will tell if electorally the consequences are felt by the English people. Of course, I do not criminalize the English people, but I simply share the position of so many British, Scottish, Welsh, English and Norwegians who regret this abandonment of the European Union. What I did was reflect on the importance of the qualified majority according to which type of decisions, and I simply refer to what the Canadian Constitutional Court said in connection with the abandonment of Quebec from the Canadian Union. I would like to thank Mr Lago for his intervention, and we agree that Norwegianism, understood as the absence of restrictions, has generated many of the problems of today's society, starting with the financial crisis. I don't agree that the European Union is working on these neoliberal premises, I think it's the other way around. And one of the criticisms in the United Kingdom has been precisely that there is too much European regulation on issues that should, at best, be more open. And if I am, too, quite according to the institutional deficit, we will try to approach through the amendment of the Socialist Party to something that you have said, but I, in any case, want to thank you for the general recognition and importance of this issue on the Greek economy, even if it extends to other matters. About the amendments. The Galician Nationalist Block seems to focus on the problem, introduces a substitution amendment and the one that defended it here came to say something like that we have to look for a different world. I wouldn't even charge the board, in any case, let me have the joke, a report on how it might be a different world. I think we need to focus on Brexit's problem, it's a sufficiently complex and sufficiently concrete problem to lead to an analysis of which sectors affect and how they can protect themselves from the harmful effects that Brexit has. And I also emphasized to people, as did the spokesperson for En Marea, because there are certainly a lot of Welsh people who have family, who emigrated to the United Kingdom. I, moreover, have a very direct knowledge of them, and I know the personal drama that this social division is supposing to many of them where, suddenly, people, neighbors who were friends become people who speak ill of foreigners, Spaniards, Greeks and those who are not British throughout their lives. The amendment of the Socialist Party has a slightly confusing wording because it is not very well understood what has to come to Parliament. The External Action Council has representatives of many people, so we understand that it is the body that must make the report, or that it must be aware of and follow all the consequences of Brexit. There is no drawback in which the ESC also goes, even though there are entrepreneurs and trade unions represented at the Galician External Action Council. There is no drawback either that the conclusions of the reports come to Parliament, because I think we should talk more about the report, as we go about the evolution of the process of exit, and the subsequent negotiation of how the United Kingdom relates to Europe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u128	So, I think that, if you think it's all right, we can try to get into a transaction about your amendment so that the Government undertakes to inform the House, on the one hand, and it's not any drawback for the ESC to say about the work being done by the Council of External Action of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u130	So we're left to do that negotiation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u131	Thank you, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u133	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular, at the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and seven other Members, on the action to be taken by the Council of Galicia to consolidate the use of children's homes
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u134	Amendments have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u135	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Arias has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u136	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, to ensure the future of a people, a city, a village or a village is essential to life. To ensure life, continuity of life, generational relief is essential, and to ensure generational relief is essential to guarantee the future. And by simplifying it very much, if we want to guarantee the future, we need a healthy and active economy that primarily favours the generation of jobs — stable and quality employment — and resources that allow us to finance the provision of services, and we also need a new population, new generations that give the generational relief, that pass by the witness. Among the priority objectives that the President of the Union set for this legislation he made in two of particular transcendences to the issue that we are dealing with today: to guide economic recovery towards a viable and sustainable economy for the coming years, giving, for example, greater fortitude to rural life, and to continue improving public services in order to consolidate Galicia as a place most attractive to be born, but also to live. In Galicia, as in general in the rest of the state, and even in much of our continent, but especially in Galicia, we have — and it is nothing new — a serious problem of ageing the population. We must remember that 70% of the municipalities in the autonomous community have a negative vegetative balance. It's a problem for which there is no magic recipe and for which there is no immediate recipe or solution. It is a problem that we have to deal cross-sectionally with the horizon set in the medium and long term, as collected in the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020. I am convinced that all of us in this House are aware of the challenges posed by the inverted population pyramid, with social services and health at the tip of the iceberg. Of course, it is a matter of priority in the agenda of the Greek Government to attract and preserve in our territory families with children and to secure the future. And although this attraction covers the whole community, it must be made clear that it is necessary to focus on those areas that need it the most, in those areas where there is less population already at the moment and where it is also older, that they often agree we are referring to the entire areas of the interior and the mountain areas. In this sense, there are a lot of measures taken and budget shares that have been allocated from the various departments of the Galician Union, because, as I said, this can only be cut from a cross-cutting point of view. Examples of these measures, by placing only a few on the table, are: direct birth benefits, such as the Welcome Card or even the Council Bonus or the Care Bonus; school material aids; the "zero tax reduction" programme in rural areas, as well as the reduction of taxes for the acquisition of rural housing; plans for improvements in agricultural holdings or the incorporation of young people into farms; incentives for the creation of enterprises in rural areas, not only those directly linked to the rural world, but also businesses in general; the implementation of actions on improvements in basic infrastructures for rural areas, can be paths, supplies, sanitation, etc.; and even help to returnees, for those people who, being out there, want to create their company here or for those young people who have left, so that they come back and can do their studies here. It is clear that if we want to attract young people to the rural environment, to set up new populations in our villages, a new population on which their livelihood depends directly or indirectly on what is being produced in the rural environment, what we need is the provision of services. We have to guarantee them and offer them services equal to those they could find in any city. And in this context, to this end, the People's Parliamentary Group is bringing to the House today this proposal in which we urge the Council of Galicia to consolidate the use of children's homes, so that by 2020 all the Councils of Galicia have recourse to conciliation. Children's homes are one of the resources provided for in the Conciliation Area of the Christmas Support Programme, the NAP, a global program that pursues and responds to the needs of the Galician families, ensures their well-being and supports them in an integral and continuous way. You know, here you've been talking about the different areas of the Help Plan, the Council Plan and the Services Plan. The characteristics of the nested houses, the houses that are inside that program, are well known, but I think it's still necessary to remember them again, to put value here what I assumed this measure for the rural environment. Children's homes have an integrated, personalized care for those children who are in rural areas; children who live in municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants and children who, therefore, often find that there are only four or five children under the age of three in the whole municipality, sometimes not even that. But they are children who need to have these care and families, mothers and parents, who also need to be able to have reconciliation and who need to be able to access that resource. What is offered to them in children's homes is that, with a maximum of 5 people, 5 children or children, they will be attended to in their municipality and will be attended by a person who has a specialization; a specialization through the training he had already had before or even from the courses that the Galician Union itself had lent to him. It's going to be, in addition, and it's already being a totally free service to families. And so also, besides being free, from being in your municipality, it's going to be a service, or it's being a service, which can be done at the letter. Parents decide with the person who looks after the children who have to take the children and when they're going to pick them up. Furthermore, the caretaker — basically the caretaker — because so far most people who have the required training are women, and here I would also make a call for, in the interests of true equality, men also to focus on these professions, the caregiver, to ensure that the young will always have that attention that they need. And besides, you'll have to be a person who lives in a rural nucleus. For all this, I am convinced that all of you, all the groups here who are continually talking about trying to boost rural areas — even today Mr Villares referred in his question to the president of the need that all the Greeks and Greeks had the same services, no matter where we live — will support this proposal today with the support of the whole House. A proposal, that of the children's houses, which had in the past and the first edition 49 applications, 40 met the requirements and 30 are already working right now. Besides, it's running 1 in the Coruña, 3 in Pontevedra, and, as we said, wherever they need it most, 8 in Lugo and 18 in Ourense. This measure included — as we have said — in the NAP, in the Programme of Support for Christmas, along with others, in addition to making Galicia a reference to assistance today to families and children living in rural areas, it also converts Galicia into a reference to a new concept of social services; social services where the needs of users occupy the main place for their design. It's a new way, a new way to understand services. The targets he pursues respond to point by point to what we all want, as I said, for our rural, or at least what I understand that all members of this House want for the rural environment. They meet the needs of reconciling families, create resources, therefore, of conciliation, give them opportunities to attract new people who are going to have services, give them opportunities so that these young people can have a job in rural areas, favour equity and services, regardless of where they live and therefore work in the territorial rebalancing. It therefore involves promoting equality between men and women and, no doubt, it is another measure, a small degree that will help and that it will have to go up to the mountain of demographic revitalization, so that the demographic decline ceases to exist and we go to a generational relief. From the People's Group, we consider this to be a suitable model for development, an impulse to rural development, and also an impulse to demography. That's why I'm convinced — and from here I'm going to ask you again — that you should give your support if you really believe in rural life, if you really believe in equality, if you really believe in conciliation and if you really believe that all the Greeks and the Greeks have the same rights and we have to have the same services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u137	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u138	...no matter where we were born or where we were living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs Arias. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u140	Good morning. It is clear that a rural bet in our country does not have to go through — as Mrs Arias will understand — necessarily support the People's Party model; it is a model not really based on promoting genuine potentialities, but rather on trying to extend this privatization model as well as on child care. With the return of the People's Party to the Greek Government, the end of the public education model began also for children from 0 to 3 years old. The first thing the People's Party did was to end with the model of the Welsh, which was the beginning of a public model for children in the first stage of their life, and replace it with a clearly privatising model. And what he did at the entrance was to dismantle the childish schools as a public service, he was cutting off staff, he was reducing hours, he eliminated the educational couple, he went up prices...; that is, he was deteriorating the public service of the public schools in the children's schools. It was the People's Party's decision to privatize basic services by turning them into business for private companies to which private management of the centres is granted. This decision taken by the Galician Union is an obvious involution, a clear involution of policies for the creation of public centres; it has gone back in the consolidation of a public network for the 0-3 year stage, opting for the privatization and the worsening of educational supply and labour relations. He has just made an exposition here to the People's Party Member, Mrs Arias, by calling on the question of work. Of course, the resource you're talking about is not an example to set as a job exit. I know that the People's Party wants to call it an undertaking to all these issues that lead people to get into topics that don't have many views of continuity; a project that only demands continuity, permanence, until 2019, with which, public resources in a pilot plan that you don't know what to do. I am reminded of that whole stage of rural tourism, where the rehabilitation of homes and others was paid, with very little permanence, and which was the subject of great propaganda – just like this – on the part of the People's Party. Of course, in view of the prioritization of the extension of the public network, the People's Party opts for the privatization model, a model that no longer conceives the 0-3 stage as a clearly educational step. Far from the wake-up and the promise by the People's Party, it ceases to conceive this step of 0-3 as an educational step and passes the conception as a mere aid step, in the time of dismantling what I referred to by the children's schools as a public service. He also carried out the finale of the "Pre-school at home" initiative, which had so well resulted; therefore, he finished a public model of Welshmen, finished the "Pre-school at home" initiative, and put in place what calls a new offer of conciliation. It is therefore necessary to agree that this stage of 0-3 is considered to be educational, to depend on the Teaching Council, and to put in place a clearly aideal model. At the BNG we do not agree with this model and therefore we present an amendment in which we demand, firstly, that the 0-3 frame be considered as an integrated phase of child education within the area of the competent education board and then put in place a plan to, in this legislation, offer the number of public squares covering the demand that exist throughout the Greek territory. This stage of 0-3 is fundamental to child development, it cannot be linked to the conception of education, it cannot be attributed merely to care, it cannot be a means of reconciliation. There is the right of parents and mothers to develop their professional performance, but it is also the right of children to have an education since the first few months of their life...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u141	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u142	We don't have to give him the accent of assistance, but clearly the emphasis on education. Education in these early years of life is one of the main resources for the compensation of inequalities and, of course, with this model that is pushing the People's Party to do so. With which, we wait...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u143	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u144	...that the People's Party accepts the amendment of the BNG and commits itself to what they did at the time, which was to include this step of 0-3 in the educational stage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. You have the floor, by the Galician Socialist Group, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u146	Thank you very much, President. The first, Mrs Arias, who draws attention to your intervention, is that precisely today, the Day of Pay Equality, when in Galicia there is a 21% crack in wages, where we earn less than 4,700 euros a year than men, you make a call for men to join the care of the children and make a call to participate in the children's homes, which is good, and we do not oppose each other, but, of course, we conceived equality differently. And if you want to start fighting for equality, the first thing you have to do – and more today, precisely, that is being celebrated this day – is to put in place and regain the Equal Labour Law that the Socialist Party, by the hand of Mr. Tourin, has put in place in this autonomous community. It starts around to talk about equality. And from a social historical claim, such as the elimination of the pay gap, we moved on to another, the other that you didn't start until the end of your intervention in the context of equality between men and women. He took it as a question to solve the demographic problem and at no time as an essential resource to fight for equality between men and women. And, when we review the initiative, the first thing we have, as usual, is that this is an urgent initiative, which requires an immediate positioning of Parliament and Galicia. And, of course, this attracts attention, and we have told you on many occasions when you, after more than thirty years, realize now – they realize now – that the public services that you have dismantled in rural areas are preventing not only the fact that the population is established but the few remaining ones are not kept. The only urgency in these initiatives brought by the People's Party is to make botafum initiatives, initiatives that perfume the environment of this House, just as it began to do in the 11th century in the cathedral of Santiago to eliminate certain smells that were in the cathedral. For this often eliminates the otter that fires some of the social policy policies, and not just those, but directly those related to the rural environment. Out of this and already getting into the field, when we talk about childish schools, the truth is that it's still amazing, Mrs. Arias, that you come here bragging about, because I don't know what. Number of childhood schools? In the 2016 budget memory they were creating 592, and it turns out 350 squares were created; that is, they're not even fulfilling their commitments. The same is true when we talk about the state in which these children's schools are found, undertrained by personnel and media. And I'm going to give you an example, because he says the president of the board that we don't walk the territory. I'm going to set an example for you, if you want, to move over there. Xinzo da Limia blue hen: the parents and mothers taking the hygienic paper to the center, at the request of the address of the center. That's happening, Mrs Arias. It didn't happen before and it's happening now. That's one more sample of the clippings you've made. And we are in favour of, of course, the children's homes, it seems to us a good initiative – and I want to say this today – of the children's houses as a resource for reconciliation, not as a resource for corruption, and explain it. When you talk about setting up jobs in rural areas through children's homes, I understand, Mrs Arias, that you don't mean creating jobs in mayors' daughters of the People's Party. I understand that you're not referring to that, I understand that you're not referring to the creation of jobs in the municipality of Leiro, I understand that you're not referring to the creation of jobs in the municipality of Lama... and, if you like, I can go on. That's the specialization you're talking about. Well, as I told you, that's the specialization you're proposing: the search for employment for members of the People's Party in rural areas. You're still not changing at all and you're still perpetuating that caciquil model within our autonomous community in a fundamental way. I'd like to continue, Mr. President, because the truth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u147	Keep quiet and listen to who is in the use of the word, please. Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u148	Okay, thanks. With regard to this initiative, since we believe that it is empty of content, as many others have said, the Socialist Group has tabled amendments in which we intend to increase the number of public squares in children's schools, that what Mr Feijóo has always promised is the creation of public squares in industrial polygons – and I point out, I repeat, and I want to be repetitive because it is worth nothing to be private – and, of course, that those schools that still do not open during vacations, that are set up also in periods of school holidays, because we all know that it is very difficult to reconcile for those working mothers and parents. We hope, Mrs Arias, that you will accept our amendments and that we can reach an agreement so that it will also be shown, as you told us in your first intervention, the will of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u149	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u150	...to fight for equality and to solve the demographic problem in this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u152	I just found that the opposition groups' partners, when we read this initiative, I think we think the same thing: the initiative of propaganda through the urgency that it touches today. Well, we present, however, amendments and I see that we have done all groups, because we understand that yes, that we can agree with the resource of nesting houses, like we don't, we have a partner who has a ride in the house. No, he's not the mayor of the PP, because, being mayor, he's stopped... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u153	Please keep quiet. Keep it quiet, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u154	...that at your school a catering was established in favor of continuing direct management of the kitchen so that children and children had a quality in the food. But finally, mayor of what we feel very proud of. [[Applause]] He said that this initiative, despite the fact that, of course, we can support children's homes in rural areas, like not?, it goes through a series of debates that we think are of great silence and that they deserve to sit down, as Mrs. Blanco said, thinking about how we can make a big pact for child education for 0-3 years. First of all, for Marea, we have conciliation resources throughout the Greek territory. We understand that it must be a priority for a government of a socially advanced country, and more if we're talking about a nation in serious demographic regression. And here I am pleased that we agree in the debate, Mrs Arias, because we came from a place where we felt what that means, where we felt what the extinction of a country is. We give the rest of the House a data: in three decades the public school went from 500 children to half a hundred children. That, of course, coincides with a debate that we had in the previous LNP and which is a consequence of the way our country entered the common market. So, to talk about boosting rural, first, another model of European construction that is not aggressive to their interests. But, back to the thread, policies to support families in a progressive sense, he said, must be supported in public, universal and quality services in child care for 0-3 years. In this sense, the cycle of childhood education has become a means of reconciliation, in practice more for mothers than for parents because, as has already been said here, we continue to be the most devoted to the care of children and children. But also this character of support for families is not the only one. Statistics show that early schooling will improve academic performance and that childhood education is thus a key element of equity that compensates for starting inequalities and helps improve later school success. In this sense, we understand children's education as a right, in Marea we understand it as a fundamental right, and that's why we agreed on the need for this competition to end in the Council of Education. However, as already stated, the Board considers this more in its aspect of conciliation, in fact in the demographic dynamization plan cited, in its strategic objective number 1 in the area of intervention 3, which refers to these conciliation measures, we do not consider – we do not understand how it is – the collaboration between the Social Policy Council and the Education Council. But at last, by talking strictly about conciliation, we also see that there are a number of debates that cannot be dealt with simply by saying: the Union bets on conciliation because it puts children's homes. For example, it has not yet been established as the business parks of these children's schools will be provided, since we understand that it must be in collaboration with employers and trade unions and that it must assume the involvement of the companies themselves in the allocation of these resources. You can't hurry up with this where Junta puts companies in a child's school. We also don't understand how the collaboration with local administrations that have these resources is increasingly diminished, because while the payments are made to private-initiative entities that have these points of attention for children, the municipalities are with a system of grants in which payment orders are delayed, and this causes a lot of problems. We also believe that a true philosophy of conciliation should lead the Union itself to create conciliation resources in public buildings, as an employer to guarantee this resource for its staff. Here, too, in this Parliament, where we are obliged to legislate in favour of the Greek people, how do we not set an example? Having a child's school at the disposal of all the staff, even for the people who come here to the debates in Parliament and who have children in charge, who can leave them in this child's school; also for parliamentarians, of course. [[Applause]] And as far as the resource of nesting houses is concerned, it can be improved, but it needs to be extended according to a serious territorial planning and within the framework of an education plan for early childhood, so the meaning of our amendment. We also don't understand how you can pretend to extend rural education when your Government eliminated that Pre-School program in the House, which was internationally vanguard, was recognized, and Mrs. Beatriz Mato sent it away — which is not yet — with a simple "inappropriate". We don't understand either as if schools were closed in rural areas or as if they weren't betted — where possible — by a model of unitary schools that, in view of the caricature they were made from poor schools, were schools that could guarantee a good model of teaching in rural areas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u156	Finally, we add that we need other economic and employment policies — as you have said — because, as the Commissioner said for the demographic challenge, there is no conciliation without work to reconcile with. So let's talk about demography -- it's not observatory -- here we're talking about an education plan for early childhood and not just advertising measures.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Mrs Arias Rodríguez has the floor by the parliamentary group who is the author of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u158	Thank you, President. The truth is that surprised, disappointed, strange, upset, I don't know what would be the qualifier I would use to talk after I've heard them. Of course, it's quite surprising when Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez is telling us that she doesn't understand how we can bring these men here to take care of the children, too, what is that about equality? Look, equality is that men can take care of children just like women can take care of them, and if you're telling me that this is because they earn less, do you mean that taking care of our children is having a second-rate job? Look, that'll be for yours, not mine, I tell you now. I'm really surprised. [[Applause]] And I was also surprised -- and I think the whole House -- when you're talking about supposed plugs for the people of the People's Party, and I didn't have to tell them anymore. The nested houses were given to the people who met the requirements, to militarized where they fought or didn't militarize anywhere; that person who met the requirements had a nested house, and here we could see it. And, of course, Mrs Verao, we can talk whenever you want — and it will be an interesting debate over the time that we have left — of these resources in administrations, of those resources for officials, even in Parliament. But please don't use the word "for parliamentarians" that parliamentarians also have children and they also have to reconcile! Sometimes I honestly don't understand them, sometimes I honestly don't understand those who take the flag of equality and then the subconscious takes them to these lapses. [[Applause]] How, honestly, I don't understand your defense of the countryside either. You are continually here, in this House, outside, in the rallies, every time you talk about the defense of the countryside, what you have to defend, that the PP has abandoned the countryside, has abandoned the mountain, and now you are against or are they against the little houses? I honestly don't understand. It's quite clear that you use rural as a slogan, as a political weapon, but then you don't really care about rural. Look, we're worried if we're worried, uh, we're worried. [[Applause]] Or maybe if they're worried about rural people, and what they have is a totally partisan speech, and since this is a proposal that the People's Party makes, we don't read it anymore. People's Party, we say no. It doesn't matter if it's good or bad for the Greeks and the Greeks. If the People's Party proposes it, as we are opposed, we have to say no. Well, look, we're not in that dynamic. We are to help the Greeks and the Greeks, no matter where they live, and to help the Greeks and the Greeks in the countryside, and to do whatever you do or say what you say, we will continue until the last moment asking for your support. And look, if you wanted to talk about children's squares, children's school squares, we're going to tell you: in 2009 -- I'm not going to talk about the Bipartite, uh!, just figures -- 2,681...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u160	...no 2016, 22.316. I increase with the Government of Nuñez Feijóo: 76% in infant school squares; that's the increase. Budget increase for children's school squares: 126%. [[Applause]] That's the increase of the People's Party, that's the bet of the People's Party for conciliation and for the attention of our children.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u161	Finish, please. It's positioned on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u162	As for the amendments, despite what was said here, I still think we have room for manoeuvre. We want to get to this point with proposals that we can still agree on, and we would like the Greeks and the Greeks to see that at this point of support for rural farming and birth in rural areas the whole House agrees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u163	Thank you very much. I understand you're going to try to reach an agreement. They'll inform me later if it's possible or not. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the judgments delivered by the Supreme Court in December 2016 concerning municipal charges for private use or special use of the local public domain
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u164	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal, and Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u165	Good day again. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it's a non-law proposition that we're going to be able to agree on, because it benefits all the municipalities of Galicia, and, in addition, it benefits them in very important economic amounts. In five judgments of last December, the Supreme Court argues that the municipalities record electrical, gas and other services for the use of the public domain of their energy transport facilities with a calculation that exceeds the cadastral value of land and includes its usefulness. The Local Farm Regulatory Act established in 2004 that electricity, with all kinds of voltage trends, gas, water and hydrocarbon companies must pay the municipalities to which they supply, by air, floor or subsoil, 1.5% of their invoicing in the local term, and which are also required to pay for crossing the municipalities, even if they do not supply energy, a rate which must set a technical-economic report. Well, so far, companies didn't pay for crossing municipal terms, because either they didn't recognize the rate or they thought it was disproportionate. The Supreme now endorses the fiscal ordinances of the year 2014 of several municipalities, including Artexo's, in addition to a very well-written ordinance, which established the regulation and fees of the fee. The High Court accepts that the municipalities value as construction high-voltage electric lines and gas pipelines, hydrocarbons, etc., for the purposes of calculating the taxable base, the rate by use of the local public domain. Contrary to the business criterion, the Supreme validates this burden, which is fixed as a reference to the value that would have on the market the utility derived from the earlier use or use if the goods concerned were not of public domain. The calculation of the rate rates must be carried out according to a technical-economic study, which includes the value of the property, adding the cadastral value of the ground — rustic, with constructions — to the value of the installations, and the taxable base is the result of multiplying that value of the immovable to the coefficient of relation to the market and to the occupation in square meters corresponding to each linear meter of the lines or channels. That is to say, this judgment acknowledges that valuation is not only by the rural square meters that affect installations, but by the value in itself of these installations, as is done with any immovable in any municipal tax. Judgments conclude that the municipalities applied to determine the rate objective, proportionate and non-discriminatory parameters. This rate, recognised by the Supreme Court, can entail an important economic nearing for rural or mountain municipalities — in fact, the calculation of the Artexo Council itself is several million euros — which have been suffering for many years the consequences and the drawbacks of being crossed by electricity and gas infrastructures by which so far they have not been compensated. The reality is that companies already know they're going to have to pay this fee, because it's a judgment no longer revolving; they've been through this issue for more than ten years. Now they're going to have to pay, but they're going to want to do it by putting all the obstacles, from the point of view of what needs to be done, which are the technical-legal studies to match both the regulations and the valuation at a market price that is defensive. Many of the municipalities will not have the capacity to develop these studies. Besides, power companies are going to say that valuations are disproportionate. You'll have to justify very well that you don't. In fact, the reference to the three or four that already exist, one of them to the Artificial Council, is well-founded and already establishes a starting point which the Supreme Court itself considered appropriate to law. In the face of all this, we believe that the Government of Galicia has to intervene urgently in order to facilitate the work of the municipalities in order to develop the technical and economic studies based on the tax orders and the fixing of the corresponding rates. It's also a matter to be taken into account that companies, when they see that this issue can no longer be rejected, will try, according to the current electric law, to transfer the payment of these fees to consumers. That is a theme that is in the Electric Law, and it is a theme that, in the development of the new electric model in which we are working — and we are going to present in a relatively short time — we intend to modify that law, excluding the issue that ultimately be the ones affected by the electrical installations that pay the rates of the electrical companies that are in their municipalities. This is unacceptable, it's absurd for people who have a reservoir, who have lines on all sides of 400 kilovolts, with which all this involves problems with mobiles, problems for life, for the impact it entails on general radio space, for people's physical and psychological well-being and stability. This is a subject that will have to be addressed, but it's much more complex, and that's why we think we need to attack this particular topic, because it's feasible, it's easy and there's already very specific references. In this way, we consider that "the Greek Parliament urges the Council of Galicia: First. To draw up a ruling on the judicial doctrine contained in the judgments of December 2016 concerning the private use or spatial use of the local public domain of the installations for the transport of electricity, gas, water and hydrocarbons, and its application to the determination and calculation of the fee for private use, occupation or special use of the public domain of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, contained in Law 6/2003 of 9 December 2003. Second. Like Fegamp, in coordination and with the support of the Autonomical Administration, a standard order with the corresponding reference economic-financial study, referred to the rate for private use and use for all types of facilities: transport, distribution, etc. — as mentioned in the previous point. And finally to apply the doctrine later in calculating the rates of the autonomous rate." In short, instead of leaving hundreds of municipalities in the hands of many, to have to develop technical-legal studies, which would not have the capacity to develop, to take the references already supported by the Supreme Court's judgment — in addition, one of them from a Galician council — to adapt it in a generic way and put it into the hands of all the municipalities, which, quickly — and could even enter into the budgets this year, as I say — could assume very important incomes for the so-called municipalities, which could partly compensate for the problems that all these kinds of facilities are subject to in their territory. And nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. Mr Bará Torres spoke by the Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u167	Good morning. Our intervention is, of course, to announce the vote in favour of this proposal, because we understand that these judgments just issued last December — and one of them, as it has been said, concerning a demand against the Artixo Council — assess these tax orders regulating the public space occupancy rate for the use of electricity, gas and hydrocarbon transport by the private use of the public domain. So we have to say, in addition, that these judgments are the result of the stubbornness of private companies that have energy monopolies, that they have consistently refused to pay these rates and violate the law that regulates this type of rate. In the case of the Greek — as has already been said — symbolizes this struggle in favour of this fee and of this regulation the Artisan Town Hall. It was a sort of David's fight against Goliath. But in the end, the courts of justice gave the reason to these councils which established this ordinance. And so it's a starting point and a big step forward so that we can set this standard in general for the Greek municipalities and also for Galician Union itself. And it must be done, as has already been done by the municipalities which have established this ordinance, endorsed by the consequent technical and economic reports; in the case of these municipalities, in addition, supported by a report which had already made the FEMP to support these rules, which set the cost of the fee according to the value of the ground and also of pipelines and installations; for example, in the case of electrical lines, electrical lines, electrical lines, which are equivalent to constructions. This rate would, of course, allow the municipalities, the public administrations and the Galician Union itself to increase their resources, their incomes, in addition to the funding deficit that local administrations have. It is therefore a matter of adopting an agreement in defence of public interest and in front of the interests of private companies, which, as we have already said, have consistently refused to pay this tax; companies in this energy monopoly (such as Gas Galicia, like Fenosa Union, as many other companies), in addition, which, as we all know, are also companies in the rotational gates, companies in their boards of directors such as De Mesa, lords like González, gentlemen like Aznar, ladies like Elena Salgado, who pay a lot of wages because they are in those administrative councils, because they defend the interests of these private companies. It's the same companies, by the way, that are wasting our natural resources, that practice a sort of modern version of the right of eternity, that crack investments to keep the facilities in proper condition, or that also create ways to deal with time, as we've just seen recently, and that are being treated favourably by the Government of the People's Party, both in the state and in the United States. Therefore, our position is in favour of this dictatorship, which is approved, in agreement with the Fegamp, this model ordinance, which opens the way for it to be processed and approved by all the municipalities, and therefore the Government of the Union to take the initiative in defending the public interest and to be an initiative to disturb the interests of that energy monopoly that benefits from the resources of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u168	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to this LNP, as you know, the Supreme Court has evaluated the tax orders of 2014 of the municipalities of Artexo, Serradilla and Villalcampo which established the regulation and rates of the fee for private use or special use of local public domain of the installations of transport of electricity, gas, water and hydrocarbons. The Third Chamber of the Supreme Court accepted that the municipalities could classify as construction the high-voltage electric lines and gas pipelines towards the calculation of the taxable base of the fee for the use of the local public domain and rejected the resources put in place by the Spanish Electrical Network, the Union Fenosa and the Galician Gas, in which this practice was denounced, which considered a mistake and which, from their point of view, caused an unwarranted increase in the recordings. In the case of Artixo, the appeal was lodged by Gas Galicia. For this purpose, the rates of this rate are calculated from a technical study based on a standard report prepared by the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. The value of the property is the result of adding the cadastral value of the ground with constructions to the value of the installations. The taxable base is obtained by multiplying that value from the property by the ratio coefficient to the market and square metre occupation corresponding to each linear meter. The Supreme, contrary to the position of companies, recalls that by quantifying the rate, it is not about achieving the market value of the soil for which the installations determine the special use or private use of the local public domain, but about the utility that these uses or uses report, so it establishes as admissible all methods that carry out a value that represents the utility in the market obtained by the taxable subject. And at the same time, the Court considers that, if it is to assess the utility that provides the taxable subject with the private use or special use of the local public domain for the installation of the above-mentioned elements relating to the distribution of electricity, it seems from any reasonable point of view to take them into consideration, so we are fully in line with the proposal, the GNP that is presented to us. But I don't know if it's possible to make an amendment, which at the time we didn't make a mistake, in voice. I don't know, Mr. President. Is it possible? Don't you? [[Mr. Calvo Pouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] In any case, I can manifest it and then they decide. In point 2, where you put it: "instar Fegamp", we understand that we have no competence to urge Fegamp, but we can ask for your collaboration and urge the Local Administration Directorate-General to help the local authorities jointly adapt their orders. No more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u170	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u171	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. New things are always learned: this is that opposition insists an organization in which they themselves govern to do something I suppose that is what you call a bot smoking initiative, but good. I regret that Mr. Sánchez is not here today, because he wanted to begin by congratulating the proposed group — and I do so to Mr. Casal and extending it to the rest of the group — for the magnificent pleasure he showed in choosing the sources in which he founded this proposal not of law. I don't know if the fact that I come to this House to propose the extension to all of Galicia of a measure driven by a council governed by the People's Party, specifically that of Artixo, is a lucky exception, or if we can hope that you will embrace one of the ideological foundations of the People's Party, which is the common sense. In any case, it seems to me a good news that abandons the defence of the fired proposals that the Tides of Podemos carried out in the exercise of the municipal government and changes for the defense of well-founded initiatives, both legal and technically. [[Laughter]] I don't lose hope, gentlemen. Look, the path is the right but still insufficient, and I explain why. First, because there are aspects to improve. Understanding the sentence seems to me to have been inappropriate. Because, indeed, the judgments they refer to ratify the decision taken by the Government presided over by Mr. Cadelo. That proves that the mayor of Artexo made a correct decision on the criteria that determine the calculation of this rate. The success of this initiative was that this decision was not based on any occurrence, but on a previous study that allowed the conclusion that the proposal had remained within the legal framework and that it was also clearly determined in the judgments you refer to, which say the following. First, let the quantification of the fee escape administrative discretion and must respond to a clear end. Secondly, the fixing of the value of the rate, which is to respond to the principle of equivalence, the margin of manoeuvre of the local authorities, is certainly wide; in other words, the local power to quantify the rate is not discretionary but the method to calculate it is. In any case, whenever it meets certain conditions — third point — that these methods and criteria must be objective, public, transparent, proportionate, non-discriminatory and suitable for the purpose they pursue: to determine the value that would have on the market the utility obtained by the beneficiary as if the goods were not in the public domain; some and other methods and criteria, as well as the value on the utility market, should be manifested in the technical-economic report, which is set up in essential pieces for the quantification of the fee. Finally, Your Honor, what the judgments say is that they set out a legal framework in which the calculation method set out in the Artex order is valid, they say it is valid, in the same way that they make it clear meridionally that other methods of calculation — including the autonomics contained in Law 6/2003, of December 9 — are also sound. And who's responsible for determining the calculation of that fee? For, in the autonomic field, of course, to the Council of Galicia, which has been applying it since 2003, without questioning the legality of its method of calculation; and, in the municipal field, to each of the municipalities, in application of a principle to which much is referred but which is little respect: local autonomy. And in the use of this local autonomy, each municipal corporation will freely determine which of the different options of the fee calculation considers most relevant, more accurate, either by following the calculation of the autonomous rate, either by following the Artix model, or by following any other model that it considers appropriate and that meets the requirements that I have just read them and that are collected in those judgments. If you need smaller municipalities to help achieve socio-economic studies, I think you should resort to those who have the legal aid competence, which are the provincial deputies, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the Council of Galicia. Don't laugh, Your Honor, what you have to do is read the Law on Local Regime Bases, which sets out precisely this: that the person who corresponds to the technical-legal counseling of small municipalities and with insufficient resources are to the provincial deputies; that it is not about occupying only their seats, it is about carrying out the obligations legally imposed upon them; they are not there to figure out, they are there to work — they note the data. [[Laughter]] Look, don't worry. In any case, I guarantee you, if any of the Greek council needs the collaboration of the Galician Union, it will have it. And I don't have to doubt that the Fegamp will guarantee exactly the same collaboration. I, in any case, have to say that I believe the fees — and I say it clearly, Mr Bará — are not to bother anyone nor do I think decisions should be made to disturb anyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u172	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u173	They must be to benefit the public interest and, in this case, to improve the collection in the municipalities. They'll find us there. If what they want is just messed up, not at all. I repeat my congratulations on the road taken. I hope they're going that way. And let me recommend that you explore other concepts, long-standingly defended by the People's Party, such as freedom, and in this case freedom of decision of the Greek municipalities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u174	Thank you very much, Mr Couñago. You have the floor on the part of the parliamentary group who is the author of the non-legislative proposal, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u175	Yes, the truth is, yes, that it seems that all our proposals are fired. The truth is that In Marea is a group, it is a government organization that will rule in Galicia sooner than later. And if someone does something in favor of citizenship, we will always agree, and in this case we recognize the good work of a council effectively governed by the People's Group and we are in favour of developing that work for all the municipalities. [[Murmurs.]] But I see no, the People's Group is going to vote against it. And why are you going to vote against it? For you will vote against to leave all those municipalities, hundreds of municipalities, which will not have the ability to develop these technical-legal studies. And why? Well just for one thing: to delay these municipalities as much as possible they can charge those fees. You can see what Mr. Fernández of Mesa is doing at the Spanish Electric Network Council, which would be one of the companies that would have to contribute most within the fees. I can't understand that you're having trouble, leaving the city halls in the hands of the goliats of the big energy companies. Now you know why there are those dozens of advisers in your group on the board of directors of these companies: to boycott, not to facilitate. No, no, that's what you said: that everyone who does it, who has powers to do it, who does it, man! who fights. We're not going to help them, it's been very clear, we're not going to help them, we're not going to make a kind of regulation, sort of regulation, in addition to the solvency that the Galician Union has for that, some huge legal departments that could do a technical-economic study, and they could make a rate reference. It can be done, it can be done. [[Murmurs.]] What they don't want to do is do it, they don't want to do it, and they want to leave the Town Councils abandoned so they can take two, three, four, five, six years, or they can never get to charge. Because, of course, those rates, at best, those rates that are left, which would have to be charged to these companies, imply that Mr. Fernández de Mesa may well be lowered the salary next year, because there's no money to pay him, because these fees are going to be a lot of money for the municipalities. The truth is, I'm young in politics, but these things I can't understand. That a government makes it difficult for many -- most of them, in addition to you, to do so -- to increase money to provide public services is that I don't come in; I really don't understand what I'm doing here listening to these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the application by the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order of the Decree 79/2010 of 20 May, for multilingualism in non-university education of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u177	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u178	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Rodil Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u179	Thank you, President. Yesterday my companions and colleagues made reading some of the fragments of Rosaly's work with the 180th anniversary of his birth. An absolute and immeasurably transgressive woman, who moved all the milestones of the time, who broke with prejudices and prejudices, joining for the first time in her writings a national discourse, a genre discourse and a class speech. And let me just read a fragment of a text, perhaps not very well known, written by the author, originally in Spanish, and only 21 years old. He said: "I have never mastered my soul the hope of glory, I have never dreamed of Laureis oppressing my face." Only how many of independence and freedom have shaken my lips, though I have felt, from the cradle already, the noise of the chains that should have imprisoned me forever, because the woman's heritage is the crickets of slavery. I, however, am free. Lieders, 1858. The magnitude and power of your writing. For us to get an idea, when she wrote this, Emilia Pardo Bazán had not written anything yet. Many years after Rosalía, already in the river, seven years ago, came into force, on 25 May 2010, the so-called Decree of Plurilingualism. Today, without it being a precedent, we're going to shake hands -- don't take our arm. We have launched an initiative to urge the Government of Greece to comply with what it collects, specifically in the fifth additional provision, and it is that the norm itself determines – and I quote again textually –: "Assessing the results. On an annual basis, after completing the school course, the board responsible for education will evaluate the results derived from the application of this decree and develop the provisions necessary for the best compliance and adaptation of its objectives so that it can gradually reach the framework of multilingual education and the full implementation of the European Charter of Minorised Languages." Seven years have passed since this decree began to be implemented in teaching and we haven't even made the first evaluation yet. We don't know what the actual, practical results of their application at the different levels of regular education are, while we look at the impassable picture depicting the loss of speakers. Yesterday, on a visit to a childhood school, here in Compostela, I announced the Education Counsellor who are preparing a plan to promote the use of the language of Galicia among the younger age groups, whenever they have been detected – and I open quotes, because they were the words of the counsellor – "deficient in their use". Román Rodríguez said there was no data of which was the predominant initial language in Galicia. He used to say, "In certain spaces there's more Greek and more Spanish." There's data, another thing – – it's also true – is that we don't want to recognize them today. And the IGE, in 2013, placed 18% of the children who learn to speak in English, compared to 45.49% of those who start speaking it in Spanish; 18% have as their initial language the Greek language, and 45.49%, the Spanish language. The figure, sinking a little more into the IGE data, came to show the same when the question was being asked directly to the mothers and parents. What do these data raise to us as to what I had previously commented on in that additional fifth provision of the decree itself? And it is: to what extent does the loss of teaching hours in the English language, reduced by the application of the decree only one third over the paper, to the loss of ordinary speakers in the language itself? What has led to the implementation of family surveys to determine the vehicle language in child education? By the way, those investigations were declared illegal by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, although they remained—the Government of Wales said—in a non-binding manner, but which, according to the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization, I was supposed to sweep the Greek language of 96% of the children's schools located in the cities of our country. More questions. What repercussions did it have for the first time since the adoption of the Law of Linguistic Standardization in 1983, including all the governments of the People's Party, of Manuel Fraga's hand, since you put an end to this decree, you are obliged to use Greek in the areas of knowledge in children's matters in which the language of the vehicle was your own? Another of the articles dropped in 2012 by the Superior of Justice of Galicia, 12.3 in particular. Is the child teacher fulfilling the article that says he will treat students differently according to the language that uses each child? Article 4.2. In what percentage does this mean the Spanish preeminence over the Greek? What implications does this have for the uses that make the youngest age ranges of our language society in your country? Using the counselor's language, what degree of involvement does the decree have in the lacks of use of the young man in Greek? How did this rule affect the usual use of the English language? The logic – we understand from the Galego Nationalist Block – is that if the Government's will is to develop and implement a plan aimed at normalizing the language of this country between youth – we understand that, in addition, it has been collecting the glove that the People's Parliamentary Group has released to it in the Education Commission itself – to what extent the legislation itself, promoted by the People's Party and supported uniquely and exclusively by the Members and Members of the People's Group when it was adopted, keeps stereotypes and prejudices or does it somehow contribute to maintaining a situation of discrimination in the country's own language – let us also – in one of the main spaces of socialization as is school? That is why we bring this initiative, which – – I repeat – only urges the Government of Greece to comply with the additional fifth provision of the decree, something that has not been done so far and which has been rejected by the People's Party, even on other occasions when the Nationalist Block of Wales in previous legislations brought this same initiative, or very similar, to this House. So much so that in 2014, when the German universities themselves, the three together, launched the offer to the Government of Galician Unity on Galiza's Day of Letters after they had known these IGE data so that it would be their own research teams that developed the study of the real and practical application of the decree, because they were told that they had not and practically given them the door in the seals; since the Executive refused the offer; it must be because it does not meet their own legal obligations ––repeat—because the decree was exclusively approved by the People's Party. We accept with regard to the amendment made by the Socialist Party which incorporates, precisely, these research teams from the University, so that they are those who develop the field work and analyze the data they collect. We didn't want to put who had to do it and leave it a little more open to see if it worked out like that. We'll see what the People's Party says as well in its intervention. I'm already finishing up. Sorry about the joke. It's just that we're happy despite the fact that so many times we're told that we're sad. Since the BNG we understand that seven years are sufficient and long enough to be able to make a practical assessment, a real assessment of the effects of the decree. [[Applause]] I imagine it could have been for a long time the excuse for protecting or protecting the People's Party. It's true that standards have to have a certain amount of practical application time to be able to see their effects, but we believe that seven years is enough time for us to know what their real application is and, above all, the consequences it could bear on what it has to do with the loss of usual speakers in the country's own language, especially among the younger age fringes. We understand that, in addition, it can be a good time this, precisely when the People's Party sees itself with the desire to recover the campaigns of linguistic normalization after eight years without them. We expect the support of all groups. I repeat that it is an initiative that only comes to remember, to remind the group of government, and in this case the Government of the Galician Union, which have legal obligations which they have met when they passed this decree, which, let us remember, has had the mass rejection of social groups and opposition groups that at the time were represented in this House, but which, however, must be respected and complied with in that - - I say - additional provision fifth, which obliges its assessment on an annual basis. Seven years seems to us enough time to start that first evaluation. For me, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You have the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia to Mrs Burgo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u181	Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. The Socialist Group will of course support this proposal from the Galego Nationalist Block, because we firmly believe it, because the common sense says that it must be supported, because what is being asked is that a government comply with the law, which, in addition, the same Government issued only with its votes, because no other political group, and besides, no trade union, no cultural association, no cultural institution in this country, neither the ANPA, nor anyone else supports, as is the decree of multilingualism. We therefore fully agree that the law should be observed. It's incomprehensible, and certainly unacceptable, for a government to do the opposite and not comply with the current legislation. An additional fifth provision, to which Mrs. Rodil gave reading, which is absolutely clear, but of which I want to draw out two elements which seem important to me. One. What you have to assess — according to this provision Thursday — annually the Council is whether the standardisation objectives set out in the Standardisation Act are met and — I also say — in the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. I mean, it's not, of course it's also, but it's not to evaluate whether the centers are fulfilling the decree; that's another element, because I know what they're going to say; that's another element, that's not the evaluation they have to do annually, but if they're meeting the standardizing targets. And I would also like to point out that in the same additional fifth provision I tell the Council that I want to know whether there is full application of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. See if this assessment is necessary that the compliance experts who analyse compliance with this European Charter of Regional Languages have already answered the Galician Council: they are not complying with it. This is the report by the experts of the European Charter, in which they expressed their total concern about the pernicious effects of this decree, because it had been reduced to one third of the teaching, and because, among other things, it is not possible to offer scientific matters such as mathematics, physics or chemistry in English. And it clearly states that there is a reduction in the teaching hours of Welsh, at all levels of non-university education. That is to say, the European Charter of Regional Languages itself is saying that this evaluation is necessary. And not only by what he says, but by taxing it: accuses the Galician Council of never having made this assessment that marks the law. See if it is necessary to make it so that even these institutions, these international bodies ask for it to be done. It is increasingly necessary, because alarm voices — very qualified, by the way — are continually pointing out that there are clear symptoms of backward use and knowledge, even of knowledge for the most children, for the most children, of our language, which is growing. I recommend that you read the latest issue of the Galician Journal of Education, where you will find multiple arguments why it is necessary to change the linguistic policy of the People's Party to promote normalization and knowledge and use of the most children, which is where the future of our language really is. As for this amendment, I really appreciate your approval. We don't want to say that the Council has an obligation to do so with the university, that is, the university alone does, but it does require collaboration. First, because the universities themselves offered it and then, because I think that guarantees us this participation of the University a high qualification, an independence, a rigor, transparency and an objectivity that it is necessary to have when the effects of public policies are evaluated, which so little does this government and which so little seeks to do is the People's Party. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u182	Thank you very much, Mrs Burgo. On the part of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña Bóveda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u183	Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. The Marea Group will fully support this assessment. This assessment is incredible to say that there is no data available, because in the Multilingual Decree, we believe that there will be a derogation — but while it is naturally necessary to do so — the first one is, in the educational project of the centre, a linguistic project that teachers and teachers in charge of management and, above all, with the components of the language seminar heads and but the coordinators or coordinators of dynamization in the Greek language, which is now called, have the obligation to do; this linguistic project is done for four years — so we are already with the second — and each year they have to make an addendum; an addendum means an addendum for if there are changes, for if there are variations. That data is in the Inspectorate, the Inspectorate has that data. Therefore, the Administration and the Council in particular, the maximum responsibility of the Teaching Council, which has, indeed, to carry out the evaluation of competences, has sufficient material — or should have it —, year by year, centre by centre, to collect these data, which is not so complex, and can provide them. I think it's an obvious thing, but really what's not going on is to carry out the evaluation, which is a responsibility that's in the decree. Indeed, this evaluation makes it clear that we must, of course, look at the framework of multilingual education and the fulfilment of the European Charter of Minorised Languages. As you've already said here and I won't pay, you're not doing it. Experts are saying that this decree is harmful to the country, that this decree reduces something that is official: our official language. All over the world there are 6,000 languages that are saying, "I'm here," "use me," "speak"... Well, of the six thousand, 5,864 are under the speakers we have in Galicia. We're losing talkers. There's a responsibility, a shared responsibility, with regard to that legal obligation, and there's also responsibility with respect to the backwardness we're living. Apart from the veto in scientific and technological areas, the tiny levels that our children are living are alarming. The language, in addition, has to do with not just one system. We can learn the dead languages alone, but the Greek is framed, it has to do with socialization, it has to do with feelings, it has to do with thoughts, it has to do with ideas. When we talk about evaluating competences, analyzing, self-evaluating our own records, please. And I say it first, but this whole House should also use this theme to make a reflection. I say, by setting an example, by talking about competition, that it is said here, that it is spoken of, for example, "common clauses." "Clausulasulas usually," what is it? There's a lot of serious calls, a lot of calls to responsibility. In Spanish there is a polysemic word that is "sunny." "Soil" means "chan" or "only" and means "I have a habit of." But here it's called "common clauses" is an unforgivable mistake, which means two things: little competition — first question — and, in the second term, not even reading the literal translation of Google or anything to say such nonsense. But, following this, I didn't want to stop making an allusion. The language is also a vehicle of relation, we can relate more aggressively, more cordially, and the language also has to do with emotional. I was moved by a sentence yesterday, a sentence that we will interpret differently: "Kill me, too." This is not literality, this is interpretation. This person who said this from above was asking for justice, he was asking for empathy, he was asking for understanding. There was someone here who had relatives. I come and many and many of Ourenses we saw on the train. It is incredible, incredible; the word is transcendent. When somebody says "kill me too" there's something that doesn't have a name, and I say it now because he's not a partner, which is the loss of a child. If I lose my father, I am an orphan; if I lose a man or a woman, I am a widow; but if I lose a son or a daughter, there is no name. The word is important, the word is transcendent. Let's take care of our treasure, which, besides, we have an official language, we have rights as speakers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u184	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u185	I want to keep time and, therefore, I don't say any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Fernández Gil has the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u187	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. The truth is, yes, we're on a subject that's not the first time this House is brought in; in fact, a very similar issue has already been discussed in June 2015, then the spokesperson of the People's Group was Mr. Agustín Baamnde Díaz. And I, to begin my intervention, will do my few words that he said then when he defended our group's position in full. He said, "How good it would be if the effort here to use it as a confrontational element was set to defend it in a positive way, to seek consensus and for the social promotion of our language! How good it would be for you to go to the English language in that case! We are once again faced with the argumentative bipolarity that in many cases BNG has on this subject, because two months ago we were debating the derogation of this decree and today we have been discussing its compliance; that is, today we are asking that the decree that we wanted to repeal should be fulfilled two months ago. Of course, for us that seems to be all the less consistent. But finally, there must also be a clear premise, and it is that the Government of the People's Party, of course, fulfils the obligations set out in the decrees which they themselves approve or approve of the Government itself. That's something no one should doubt about. We believe that the Greek Government has fulfilled its duty to assess and report on the practical results of the application of this decree. It is sufficient to see, for example, the question raised — document 10829 — in 2014, when the data were provided at that time of evaluation of the decree of plurilingualism. Because, in addition, there is a question that you do not point out in your interventions, and that the additional provision fifth and second speak of evaluation, but, of course, there is no mention of the treatment of the publication that must be made of these data collected from the evaluation of the outcome of this decree. I think we have to point out that the evaluation system that is established allows it to be the educational centers themselves that introduce the data through the XADE management application. Quantitative information therefore responds to the follow-up established by the Decree of Plurilingualism itself, which seeks to balance knowledge and competences in both co-official languages. There were occasions when this topic was brought about, of manipulated data. We certainly believe that the data that the professionals of teaching and education in Galicia are not manipulated data, but that they are the actual data, and therefore we do not doubt their professionalism. I say: the information and the data are obtained from the information that the educational centers themselves carry in their management program. But we must also point out, and referring a little bit to the amendment made by the Socialist Group, that the competition for the evaluation of this decree, such as the second additional provision, is from the Council, which will mark the procedure for evaluation. And in that sense, competition is in the General Sub-Directorate for Quality Inspection and Evaluation of the Education System, which, among its functions, has precisely carried out general assessment and improvement actions of the non-university education system in Galicia. Therefore, we understand that it corresponds in this case to the General Sub-Direction of Inspection and Evaluation of Educational Quality the follow-up of these data and the treatment and, therefore, the evaluation of the decree. The truth is, as I said at first, by gathering Mr Baamonde's words, that it would well go to the English language if we had another way to approach everything that has to do with it! And I mean this because, curiously, I too, when I was preparing the intervention for this non-law proposition, I had the opportunity to look for a series of documents, and among them, I know that the BNG was before a reformulation procedure of many of its ideas, known as the "Go ahead process", and there's a document in which it has to do with the language that I've had since thought deeply appealing, since in this document what they did was put the language to the service of their national idea of self-determination, claiming that it was the main tool to achieve their political purposes. From the socio-linguistic perspective, I think you share with me that you can never put a cultural asset to the service of a political cause, because the first consequence can be precisely the rejection of all those who do not follow that political idea or cause. Therefore, weak favor is made to the Greek language with documents of this type and with these starting points and these postulates. To me, by the end, I'd like to point to a question. I am grateful that throughout yesterday, and even today Mrs Rodil, the Members and Members of the BNG during yesterday did or brought to this House references for works by Rosalía de Castro. I think it is always enriching for the political debate to bring the great figures of literature to this House. And that's why I, to support the arguments that I have just made here today, wanted to allow myself the license to bring another figure of the Rejudice, another poet, in this case an oransan of Celanova, who is Curros Enriquez, who says — I quoted four verses of one of his works, which is called Evos the Galician Lingua—: "You are the legend Galician girl married already, that, instead of children's rallies, songs or galans." Let's stop playing with the English language, mature and, once and for all, work for their defense. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u188	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u189	Mr. Fernández Gil, I'm glad you read our theses for the National Assembly next month; I think you can always learn something. And I'm also going to bring you here a reference in relation to much of the language policy that has developed in our country since the People's Party came to the Government. I, look, I borrow it, I invite you, we can even have a coffee and reread it together, if you want, which is the self-identification of Fraga, who had a lot also with that Hegelian concept and that to a good extent... you can be quiet, Mr. Tellado, that going to have something with someone in the cafeteria means nothing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] He said that, that we can bring here that revision that made of the Hegelian concept the Fraga itself with that concept of self-identification and what had to do with linguistic policy, with the conception of language itself as a vertebral and structural element of the nation itself, of the land itself, despite the fact that Fraga did not have that national perception of the country as BNG has. Still, I don't agree with that vision that we came here to confront or have a bipolarity argumentative. We defend here our political position and reject, since the draft decree has appeared, the adoption of this type of legal instruments. And besides, I think that all the people who are here remember what the social and political context was in that year 2009, in that election year of 2009, and how it came to be, as it was conceived, also this decree. We ask for his derogation, and we ask for it every time we have a chance. I didn't say it today, but I could repeat it again. So things, which we call another policy, that we are against an existing legislation, do not exempt us from complying with those provisions. And if it's true that there are these evaluations, that the data have been compiled and that they have been analyzed by the general sub-direction, or some other areas of work in the Council itself, I don't see any problem with this initiative being approved. I simply understand that there is no longer any need to collect the data, which is collected, and it is to comply, above all, with the last part, which, from our point of view, is the most interesting. That's why I said it might be, in addition, a good time considering that the Board itself is going to design or is drawing up... we have already asked questions about it in order to get to know them a little better, but that we can meet them, that these results will be made public; above all, their analysis is made in terms of whether or not they are fulfilling the linguistic policy collected in the law of the year 83 and in the plan of the year 2004, and, above all, bringing them and presenting them to this House. I don't see any bigger problems. If the data is already collected, they are already analysed and if in any concrete response to some group has already been reached, we understand that we do not know what the problem is with supporting this initiative. We're so sorry. Look, even we would be prepared, with all the love of the world, to reject the amendment of the Socialist Party if that bothers them to approve the initiative as drafted. I'll give them time to think about it and then they'll tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u190	Thank you. So, do you accept the PSOE amendment? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Accept the amendment. Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the opening by the Government of Greece of a negotiating table with the health union organizations to recover the agreements reached in 2008 on the working conditions and remuneration of Sergas staff
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u191	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the proposal, you have the floor to Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u192	Thank you, President. Today we bring the debate to the pay situation of workers and public health workers, those and those to whom Mr. Feijóo said this morning that they were working more than ever, those and those exceptionals that, according to the president, are the main active part of the Galician Health Service. If they're so important and work more than ever, instead of congratulating them, the truth is, you could start by giving them back the labor rights that were removed during the crisis. The union power stations negotiated in 2008 with the Galician board an agreement on the labour rights of public health personnel with a series of annual wage increases as well, with the aim of equalizing wages to the average of the autonomous communities of the state as a whole, because today they are, and by that time they were also, under that average. However, this agreement, which is normal, was unilaterally suspended in 2009 by decree, and the implementation of the agreements reached. The fundamental reason for this was the economic situation, so the recovery of suspended rights was conditional on an improvement in this situation. So the People's Party itself, which defends economic improvements — as we have seen throughout the whole of today — also maintains today the suspension of certain conditions that workers and public workers have the right to. And they have a right because, in fact, they're good professionals and because, while others cut and privatized, they and they were the ones who supported that ill-treatment public health with their work. But they have the right, above all, because this is not an executive's gift, it's not a question that's funny, it's rights that are achieved with negotiation, with union struggle and with labour claims, and because those rights achieved in negotiation with the Galician Council are normal and must therefore be met. I, ladies and gentlemen, am obviously — you know — for the distribution of wealth, but not for the distribution of poverty. And anyone could understand that, in a democratic country, when there are exceptional situations, catastrophes, serious conflicts, breakdown of the country, if he can ask the citizen to tear his shoulder down — said in a colloquially way — he can. The problem is, they weren't asked to close their shoulder, no temporary help was dealt with. Here what was done was to impose labour and wage cuts and, therefore, there was no possibility of negotiation. The problem is, as some reached their shoulders, others increased their profits and profited from the public. While health care and sanitation were being cut, all high-ranking jobs were maintained, Catholic cures were maintained, for example, in health care, the bank was rescued — losing these 8,000 million euros in sales — but in addition private health business with the resources of public health, the cost of its deterioration, of course. While workers and public health workers had to pay off their salaries, Galicia's private health sector billed 300 million euros annually. Where does that benefit come from? And, yes, also the cost of the precariousness of private health workers. Because here at the end they always lose the same and the same. And today, that the Galician Union claims that there is already a macro-economic recovery, it is therefore time — as we have already defended with the derogation of Law 1/2012 — for the Galician Union to meet. I repeat that it's not gratifying, it's normal, a union agreement with the Galician Union. It must be remembered that the conditions are not being recovered, not only because of increasing the workload, or because the working conditions are more difficult today — we speak yesterday of those claims that will lead the Anesthetists to strike in the Coruña in March, but also about the protests of workers and potential workers, we talk about the workers' protests, for example, of the emergency service of the University Hospital Complex of Vigo, not only for these reasons, but rather that the minimum budget increase this year is not a gift, it is not a raise, it is the return of the specific supplement withdrawn, the return of the extra payments withdrawn. Thus, neither labour rights nor wage losses are being recovered from non-compliance with the agreements agreed — namely redundancy — in 2008. We haven't returned anything from the suspension since 2009, we've already had seven annums, and Junta systematically refuses to negotiate with the union hubs on this matter. Law 1/2012 has also been applied, from which we have already dealt with in the previous plenary session, to withdraw the temporary disability supplement, and so on, and so on. That is, as always, when the shoulder is to be reached, the workers and workers are torpedoed, and yet others can devote themselves to raising their wages, as this year happened with the President of the Galician Council or with high office, with 7.5% and 7% respectively. However, then we say that public workers are the best we have, that they are magnificent workers, that they work a lot more and more. Silly words, it's no better to hear than to do the work of public workers, but to take care of them. And those who say they're real patriots, that they're fantastic, that they're very worried, in addition to Galicia, on the other hand, they keep the cuts on labor rights and on the wage conditions of workers and public workers, who are -- I repeat -- those who have supported public health over these years and so we should be taking care of them as we haven't done before. So from En Marea we also welcome the claim that the trade union power stations have made, and obviously they are the ones that have to negotiate with the Galician Union as they are going to revert and how those agreements that have been suspended since 2009. And we call on this non-law proposal, of course, to open the negotiating table with trade union organizations to recover those agreed agreements — or redundancy — since 2008. Because, frankly, listening here — as was said today, or in Commission 5 last week with the question that BNG asked — is going to raise their salary from the coming year when the 2008 agreements are being breached is honestly an insult, and also taking into account the conditions under which workers and public health workers are working. So -- already finished -- it's not a funny thing, it's not a government gift, it's not returning the rights that have been achieved. And now that that double speech is eliminated that there is economic recovery but that recovery is just for a few. Nothing else, for now, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u194	The employment situation of Galician public health personnel has been a cause for concern for the BNG. We have put forward a lot of initiatives on this situation, on the reduction of squares, on unsatisfactory OPs, on job insecurity, on recruitment for days and hours, on the situation of stress and care pressure in which workers and public health workers develop their activities. Because we're not going to get tired of repeating that health professionals are that human capital which is the most valuable thing the public health system has. In this -- at least word -- the People's Party agrees, and it probably goes up here to this gallery saying they're very pleased with the staff. But then the government's performances don't go in pairs with those propaganda fairs. And we've found that, on all these issues that I just pointed out, you have to add up to a situation of continued ill-treatment. I've already said on other occasions that the Health Council behaves with its staff as the worst of the bosses, who says with a hand "what good you are" but, on the other hand, "accept the conditions I impose on you without being able to say anything." And that's where we are. The health personnel, including other workers and public workers, were forced to freeze and steal a series of rights under the excuse of the crisis. The argument was that the crisis didn't allow to maintain a whole range of rights that the staff had, that they were going to be suspended and that some of them would be hijacked. In 2008, staff had negotiated a series of agreements at sectoral table, a series of agreements that were not a whimsical, nor a last-minute will or event, but they responded to a situation where Galician health workers charged — and still collect — the lowest supplements of the Spanish State as well as the continued attention, the supplements to which continued attention is paid for on Sunday nights, holidays. And those agreements were intended to match the average of the Spanish state. We're talking about the night complement, where they're literally at the queue of the entire Spanish state; and, as far as holidays, they only win them from behind, in the case of groups C, D and E, Andalusia, and in the case of Group D, only Balearics and Andalusia. I mean, we're talking about the recognition of the work of employees of public health in Galicia being, at least, just like that of the other parts of the state, and that they deserve that remuneration. That agreement was reached in 2008 of application for 2008-2012, that recognition was put into practice in 2008-2009, and the People's Party arrived at the Galician Union and said that it had reached the crisis and that this up to here, but with the commitment that it would soon resume. But indeed, the People's Party is set up in the speech that the crisis has already ended, that all the data indicate that, thanks to the magnificent management, to the fulfilment of the deficit and to the lack of many more things, this is already winding up, but the reality is that this is another propaganda speech, because, in truth, they do not want to comply with or recognize the agreements that, as has already been said and as I have already said on several occasions, at the sectoral table they have a norm character and that then a government is obliged to comply. So, we're talking about pay on that job, on those shifts, on Sundays and holidays, on the subject of recognizing it as special days on 24 and 31 December or 1 January, those special days that in the rest of the public service do not work and in the case of health if you work, on the professional career...; that is, of issues that seem to be nothing beyond the normal requirement of public workers and workers. Well, in response to this request, what they find is the People's Party wall, the Government's wall, the wall of not even wanting to sit down and negotiate at the sectoral table. I said here yesterday to the councillor: what this initiative is asking is what the trade union organisations asked us to do, which is that we agree in this Parliament to ask the Government to sit and negotiate in the sectoral bureau. We're not putting any condition here, no apriorism, and the goodwill of workers, through union representatives, is more than proven...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u196	...because they don't even require that this recovery of negotiated and agreed rights be immediately, but they're willing to be in several budgetary exercises; that is, to be negotiated, to be talked about and to see a horizon of when they're going to recover something that's of law. Then it's awesome. And I'm in line with what the proponent of the initiative said that this is an indecency, and it's more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u198	...that the Director General of Human Resources will add — and final president — to the position of the adviser...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u199	Thank you, we get it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u200	...and he dares to say at the 5th Commission last week that the public workers and workers were already recognized because they were going to work less and charge more. At that level, the People's Party arrived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u201	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Thank you very much. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u202	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. We openly announce that we are going to support this motion because we share the essentials of the question, because, of course, it is registered by our band a similar motion that claims what the unions claim, which is the same thing that they defended here Eva Solla and Montse Prado, because, in addition, we included a similar point in a motion already debated yesterday from a previous interpellation, about the staff of the public services, and because even today our spokesman asked about the job situation in Sergas. It is a matter that, of course, concerns us, because defending public services is to defend their workers; the rest is more word than word. We also defend dialogue as a tool, as an instrument and mode of action, not as a final end, is not: we're going to try to make all possible solutions, which give us an advantage, and if not, we finally dialogue. Dialogue is not that it has to be not even the first to be a matter of order, but it has to be a matter of attitude, and we don't perceive this in the Greek health in general, in the Greek public services right now by the Administration. What they ask for are questions, as has already been pointed out here, quite sensible. Of course, the agreements that seek and clear that the negotiations they ask also have to do with wages, too, yes, but they do have to do with working conditions, because health care workers don't have conditions like the other staff of other types of jobs, it's not an office, it's not a store, it's not a job that opens from 8 to 3. Health workers work every day, there are no holidays, there are no schedules... the question is to organize properly calendars, shifts... productivity isn't the same, it can't be evaluated the same. The conditions have to be met for those who work the days we all enjoy as holidays, because there's always health workers available, there's always staff working. So just as it happens with other services like emergencies, it's personal that it has different conditions and so what they want is to treat specifically their conditions, and they find closed doors. Of all the union demands — which I am sure there are opposing positions — and they have demanded in recent years, what progress has been made? What questions can the Administration put on the table and say: this was demanded by the unions and this was granted to the staff? It's hard, but making that list would be very relevant, because the staff situation basically affects the quality of our service. We've been talking about precarious work these days. You're talking a lot of time behind job precariousness and judgments, statements that say the staff is hired in a precarious way. Since they demand judgements, if they don't have to take action until they are told by the judges, there are judgments that say so. But that precaution affects the quality of the service, because the staff has to be working for a week on three different services, not knowing if the next Monday will have to work, if they're not going to be able, and the staff will go because they need some stabilization, because we're talking about people in the ages of stabilising a life. We're usually talking about staff that has to care for the sick they don't know, and they have to catch up with nothing else, and the next day they have new sick ones ahead. We're talking about a medical situation that feels like this, and that's why some indicators are worse than they might be. Our spokesperson, Xaquín Fernández Leiceaga, today quoted here the 390 days to wait for a trial in Vascular Surgery in Vigo. Yes, the president said, you can't talk about a service alone. But that, first, is the average -- without being particularly mathematical, and there's one in the room -- the average means that, even if there's some below, there's some above too. Yes, that official data recognizes that there are people who wait for more than a year and a month for a service in a situation that may be dangerous, but that we could put in a huge amount of services where official data itself shows that they have too long expectations, because we hire precariously, because professionals have no stability, because they don't know how to handle initially and why they have to update in their service. And despite the data that the president gave today, by appealing to the health barometer, he can twist the data he wants, but the health barrier that is there to see says that of every 20 people only 3 — of every 20 — say that public health care in Galicia has improved in the last five years — 3 of 20 —. The other 17 don't say it, and from there we can talk about the data you want. Three out of every twenty. That's what the health barometer says. So we defend this motion because we defend to treat our staff with dignity and decency, because to look after staff means to look after the system, and we are in favour of the public health system. The rest is talking. The question is to come here and decide whether you're going to vote for professional demands or not, and that's what we're going to do. I hope we can all do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u203	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u204	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. You present, Mrs Solla, an initiative to recover the rights suspended in 2009 because of the economic crisis; agreements negotiated between trade union organizations and the Bipartisan Government Health Council, that weak and uncohesive government that surely gave in to pressure by its own weakness and the constant possibility of breaking the government pact. And he did it even knowing how things were at the economic level, which led to the situation that we all remember from the year 2009, with bills in the drawers, huge debts and advances that there was and still have to be returned to those years of joy. [[Murmurs.]] In fact, the Government had to suspend in 2009 the agreements for the serious economic situation that you left, the left ruling in Galicia and Madrid, where we were said to be in the Champions League of the economy and the crisis was denied. Later, in 2010, we had the only consolidated drop of our staff income, which was the drop of between 5% and 7% of the Government of Mr. Zapatero, which was generalized to all officials, and never talked about. That's the only consolidated drop I've had in thirty years as an official. After a long and hard passage through the budget, last year 2016 and this year 2017 the budgets of the Union finally grew. Even so, not enough to be able to recover those agreements with public health personnel, which would represent an economic cost that is not assumed today, and so the councillor told the union representatives that he met on 9th of this February, despite the fact that yesterday he was said not to talk to them. That is why there is no amount allocated to this concept in the 2017 budgets. In 2017 public health investment is 41.9 % of the total, 3,614 million; 43.4 % of the Sergas share corresponds to Chapter I, staff salaries. Only the recovery of the specific complement of extraordinary payments represents an amount of EUR 44 million in the Health Council, which implies important economic amounts for all Council staff, in the same way as for the other officials and staff in the Galician Union. All categories recover exactly the same amounts of specific supplement that were paid before 2013. The proportional increase is the same at all levels and classification groups, including the president and some offices of the Board, which recover exactly what they lost. I believe that the only ones who haven't recovered what we've found are most of the Members and Members of this Parliament. It is also planned, once the state budget is approved, an increase of 1% established by the General Administration for the remuneration of all public employees. Since it is true that the economic situation has prevented new pay agreements and even forced to suspend those who signed them, it is no less that in the last legislation many rights lost during the crisis have been recovered: the return of the extraordinary payment of 2012, the linear rise of 1% of the year 2016, the return of the specific January and February of the year 2013, the recovery of vacation days and free provision and the extension of the active service beyond 65 years, which currently in health is up to 67. Transfer contests and OPE were also convened in all professional categories, with more than 1,600 squares in the health system in the last legislation. And it was signed with the unions, by the Administration, a temporary contract. As we said, the Budget Act envisages wage increases for all professionals for this year 2017, although it maintains the suspension of the application of agreements and agreements allocated, assuming, as I said, a non-expendable expenditure at this time. In short, all health personnel will earn more this year 2017 than in 2016, and in the last Commission 5th the Director General of Human Resources saw this increase of about 3,000 euros average for doctors per year and about 800 euros for nursing staff. They are also planned, to improve the reconciliation of family and work life, open and permanent transfer contests, as well as the call for maximum squares for access to the new statutory staff, which are initially 820, but the Council is demanding that the replacement fee be suspended and that there may be many more. We are also negotiating with the unions, by the Council, a stabilisation plan to reduce the rate of temporality, which will immediately involve the conversion of 400 possible squares into interim appointments. Budgets include EUR 7,400,000 for temporary staff recruitment, and you all know the provision of the Sergas Continency Fund for staff costs, with the need to strengthen staff frames when necessary. Finally, we think that the economic situation still does not allow this year 2017 to assume those pacts of the year 2008, but we believe that the labour and pay situation has improved with respect to the previous years, the harshest years of the crisis, and we trust that, if economic circumstances allow it, if it continues to do so in the coming years. That's why we're not going to support his initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u205	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u206	Thank you, President. Well, see if you understand, Mr. Centeno. First he says that the councilman sat down to talk about wages, and now he says he can't support that he feels like he's talking to get his pay conditions back. What are we left with? First of all, I would like to thank the opposition groups for their support. It's true that we all receive union headquarters with these claims, which are minimal. And I regret that in his intervention, Mr. Centeno, he had no kind of argument to defend that the working conditions were not recovered and that he had to resort again to the bipartisan Government. I don't think it's too bad about the cuts, I don't care who's coming, I won't defend them. And I myself was taking part in a general strike in 2012, before. And we don't agree with the work reforms, and we don't agree with the cuts to the public workers. They were awfully evil. Now are we going to talk about the cuts the People's Party has been practicing since 2009 and the recovery of the cuts is consistent with the economic recovery that you are defending? Yes or no? All that is not a People's Party is fatal, they've all made it fatal. But are we going to talk about the initiative now? I wish you had. In the morning it was said here that jobs had increased in fixed conditions, in employment stability, and that's an insult. Because you also know that many of the people who consolidated the square and took possession of their squares sleep by public job offers that came from before, from previous governments. You know that this government is the one that has destroyed – – practically 1,800 professional positions – and that's what most professionals have in a precarious situation. And to move here that the pay is being recovered is false; I said it in the intervention and yet you fell into the same argument. What extra payments are returned is that it's law, it's not a gift, it's not a gift; what they're doing is not increasing wages, it's not applying what they paralysed from that agreement of 2008, it's just returning the extra payments to which workers are entitled. So I think you should look into your own real argument not to apply it – – it's because you don't want it – and not in arguments that are not supported anywhere. And it's very good that you reach out to the use of the Contingency Fund, because, as I said yesterday, the Board of Auditors is continuously moving in every year that the accounts of the Health Council do not match and that you have to systematically resort to that Contingency Fund to hire and pay the workers, because they don't do the right accounts. So today we find out, now in your intervention, that it's not such an economic recovery, that it's just a little bit. And what they really have to do is return the extra payments, because they don't have any more remedies, and because in previous years they've had to abide by the judgments that forced them to do so. I understand, therefore, that you refuse not even because, as you said here -- and I'm done -- you didn't ask for a prompt question, you weren't asked to return everything this year. But you refuse — and it is very good for you to say it here — simply not even the one that the Galician Union feels negotiating to give back what they have withdrawn from those workers who will then say that they are so magnificent. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in order to unlock the launch of the Vigo Metropolitan Area
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u208	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u209	Mr Bará has the floor to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u210	We're going to talk about the Vigo Metropolitan Area, which is an initiative, a proposal that emerged sixteen years ago, specifically in the Soutomaier Declaration, which was signed by fourteen municipalities on June 14, 2000, and that we can say it was the germ in that area with that idea of getting vertebration, management and the joint provision of services to an area in which about 464,000 people live. Then twelve years later — it was too late, the truth was that it was a long and complex birth — the Law of the Vigo Metropolitan Area, by Law 4/2012, was approved, although it was really a law that had not been executed, to be effective, by the discrepancies between the Vigo Town Hall and the Galician Union. And, moreover, it was a law that was born without sufficient support and support — yes, majority — without the necessary consensus of all political forces. The People's Party at that time had an interest in approving it, we were on the eve of an electoral process, and it was agreed to pass that law, but it was born without unanimity, without consensus, without the necessary agreement, and that made it fail and not become effective. And it's been four years. Interestingly again, on the eve of a new electoral process, this time yes, in 2016 it was approved by a unanimous agreement the amendment of this Law of the year 2012, of the creation of the Vigo Metropolitan Area. And at that moment it is true that this agreement was possible by the resignation of all the political forces that were ruling in those municipalities, which were also present in this Parliament, to give in to their positions and to try to reach an agreement that made that metropolitan area effective. But that truce, that deal the truth is that it lasted very little. Once the elections were passed, he returned to the confrontation. And that is how, when the Constitutive Session of the Metropolitan Area takes place, on 1 December, chaired that constitutive session, its old table, by the mayor of Salvaterra — the People's Party — they take possession of all the representatives of the Area of the various municipalities and at that time there is a clear vision of the boycott strategy of the People's Party, abandoning its representatives that meeting, and also in a perfectly coordinated and joint attitude in which they act as representatives of the People's Party and not as representatives of the institutions that put them there, of the councils; thus, highlighting a clear partisan strategy that was perfectly consensual and also of the guidelines issued by the Galician Union, which ended up requesting a mandate from the Advisory Council on this constitution and its legality. But the reality is that it consists, that the executives are elected, that their vice president is elected and that they are appointed to their governing bodies and that on December 22nd it also sets in motion the constitution of the Government Board of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, now yes with the absence, with that boycott of the representatives of the People's Party. Well, this highlights a new institutional dispute, a dispute, more than institutional, partisan and even personalist between Galician Union and the municipal government of Vigo, on a escalation of mutual accusations and confrontation that leads Galician Union to an extreme decision, which is January 20, to interpose a counter-administrative resource against the constitution of the Vigo Metropolitan Area and its governing bodies. At the same time, the Directorate General of Local Administration denies the registration of the Metropolitan Area in the Register of Local Authorities of Galicia, pointing out that boycott, that attitude against the Government and also the People's Party there in the institutions where this constitution is present, and therefore causing a serious prejudice — we understand — to the whole neighborhood, to those 460,000 people who are eligible for the potential new services that could be implemented through this administrative tool. So there is a clear attempt to paralyze the Metropolitan Area, which is -- let's not forget -- the first metropolitan area of Galicia and that the truth is that it is having a bad start and that it is a bad example to follow for the idea of creating other metropolitan areas in the country. Well, the causes of the conflict — there we can say apparent causes and real causes — according to the argument made by the People's Party, have to do with the discrepancy with regard to the convention signed on July 6, 2016 between the Vitrasa Council, Vitrasa Company and the Union for the integration of Vigo Council into the metropolitan transport area. This divergence, this discrepancy with regard to the interpretation of this agreement has to do with the issue of tariffs and the payment of urban travel within the municipal area of Vigo, within the principle that it is collected in that agreement that all persons using public transport must have the same treatment, regardless of whether they are domiciled in Vigo or in another municipality; that is apart from the necessary technological adaptations that the concessionary company was taking in order to be able to effectively integrate into that agreement. Well, the reality is that there is this discrepancy and, in view of that divergence, the People's Party, through its institutions, through the Conference of Galicia, rather the fact is that there is this discrepancy and, in view of that divergence, the People's Party, through its institutions, through the Council of Galicia, rather than resort to the procedure regulated in the agreement itself in order to resolve that discrepancy in order to resolve that discrepancy, which was to attempt to resolve each other by mutual resolve settlement within the follow-up commission, or, if this is the case, the People's Party, through its institutions, through the implementation of the clause ten of that convention, which provides instead of resorting to proceed to the procedure prescribed procedure in the agreement itself in order to resolve this agreement in itself in order to resolve that disagreement in itself in order to resolve that disagreement in order to resolve that disagreement with the convention, which was to resolve the dispute over the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter of the matter, which the Committee on the People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's Party has already made in key dialogue, through their institutions, through their institutions, through their institutions, through their institutions, through their institutions, through their institutions, through their institutions, through the Joint constitution, through their institutions, through the Joint constitution, through the Joint constitution, through the Joint constitution, through the Joint constitution, through the Joint constitution, through the Conference of Galicia, through the Conference of Galicia, through the Conference of Galicia, through the Conference of Galicia, through the Conference of Galicia, through the Conference of Galicia of Galicia, rather rather rather rather rather, rather, rather, rather rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather through the Conference of Galicia, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather than through the Conference of Galicia, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, rather, through the Conference of Galicia, rather, rather, rather, through the Conference of Galicia, through the Conference of Galicia, rather, through the Conference of the Conference of Galicia, rather, through the Conference of Galicia, through the Conference of the Conference of Galicia, rather, rather, rather, rather So, when we get to this situation, from the BNG, what we want is to make a call to dialogue, a call to agreement, a call to consensus between the German Government and the municipalities that integrate the Metropolitan Area and essentially the Vigo Town Hall. What we're doing to reach that consensus is asking them to withdraw that litigation-administrative resource against the constitution of the Metropolitan Area, which in any case try to resolve the discrepancies around the transport where the application of the agreement itself is... I don't know if they have any place to talk quietly around there in some of the rooms that they have there for the Government and they have to be disturbing while a fellow of Parliament speaks... but, well, there everyone. [[Murmurs.]] Well, in any case, what I was saying is that this conflict can be resolved, that discrepancy, in the application — through the commission to follow up the agreement itself or through the litigation-administrative — of the transport agreement, without resorting to that absolutely drastic and extreme solution that is to boycott the constitution of the Area. And so we also ask them to agree to implement this signed convention on metropolitan transport, and to agree primarily on the question of financing, which is the key: it is who has to finance those uses of metropolitan transport within the Vigo area. And it seems reasonable to us, in addition, that I don't have to do it exclusively by majority of the Vigo Council for what users are not from your county. So what we're asking them to do is, ultimately, put forward the collective interest and abandon that strategy of confrontation and opposition that they're carrying out since the government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u211	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u212	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. We continue in the framework of general analysis, we continue in that possibility and alternative facts. I asked some language adviser about the Greek translation of cheating, and the truth is that it's a little sophisticated, but, well, it's about cheating fundamentally, it's about presenting an image of reality that hides the true objectives of those who present it; it's a basically theatrical term — I believe — but I think it perfectly adapts to the situation that Mr Bará had defined. In this, as it also has to do with budgetary matters — it is a marginal issue — it would be very good for the Members and Members of the People's Party, please tell the President of the Union not to tell us continuously that each year 2,000 million euros have been reduced in the budgets of Galicia, because in an budget of 11 billion euros, if you have been reducing seven billion years each year, you have a negative budget; this is the theme 1 of basic arithmetic. Today he said it exactly twice, it was exactly what he said; if he wanted to say something else, it was misinterpreted or I misunderstood. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] I repeat again: about 11,000 million, if in seven years you reduce 2,000 million each year, you're in a negative budget — at least in the Euclidian system, I don't know if any other issues happen. Syria and the road to Damascus also appears. In this case, the explanation is not theological. In this case the political change of the People's Party's position in relation to the Vigo Metropolitan Area is called to move from 13 concelleros in Vigo to 7. There was a law in 2012, which actually passed with the absolute majority of the People's Party, a law that established governance for a metropolitan area, was that of Vigo, the one of Barcelona, the one of the port or the one of London, absolutely aberrant, in which a council of 1,700 inhabitants had the same decision-making weight as a municipality of 295,000, which, undoubtedly, was not supported; they recognized it off the record those of the PP and all the others, but at that time it was necessary to pass a law that had appeared as a sort of ordago, of order and command, to the mayor of Vigo. The result—I regret to have to repeat it, but in the way you repeat the 41, I will repeat it too— 17 from 27, you from 13 to 7, the worst result of the People's Party in the municipal history of the Vigo Town Hall. That is the general framework for analysis of this issue. And indeed, there is an apology, and the apology is undoubtedly transport. The transport that is collected in the convention itself signed in July, where it is said that the compensations of the Galician Union will work in respect of the urban service, which will be carried out by the first urban stage which is part of an interurban journey. I mean, it's part of the concept of metropolitan transport, urban transport linked to a metropolitan route, I think it's not too complicated to understand. I don't think it's too complicated to understand. It must be so easy to understand that a PP initiative, signed by Pedro Puy Fraga, Martín Fernández Prado, Jaime Castineira Broz, Marta Novoa Iglesias and Álvaro Pérez López, says textually: " Users will have free urban transport if they use urban transport for their travels before or after." I insist, I didn't sign it, I didn't write it. By the way, some of the honourable Members who are in this Chamber have distributed these writings through the Vigo metropolitan area. Please, is that true or is it a lie? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because I saw the photos on Vigo Lighthouse. Oh, okay, so that's it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, these writings — I would say pamphlets, but I don't know if pamphlets are part of Parliament's style book —... Well, in any case the relevant is not what is divided, the relevant thing is that the next day, Mrs. Egerique, the mayor said: this, when you want it; and you, after sharing it, said no, mind? Okay, well, I'm lying. I don't think I'm lying. The next day, the mayor said: this is here, tomorrow itself; and you -- you would say, "if you've poisoned her" -- they've retreated, I think it's the right term. So I think we are talking, we are going to support this initiative, we are presenting an amendment in relation to transport exactly as to what the PP itself says and the agreement says, that the Vigo Council actually pays for urban transport linked to metropolitan transport. And, of course, if any mayor or mayor of the People's Party, for example Mrs. Nidia Arevalo, wants the Vigo Town Hall to pay for Vigo's urban transport to the inhabitants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u214	...of Mos, what you have to do are two things: sign an agreement with the Vigo Town Hall and save in banners that put on the front of your Town Hall, absolutely outraged... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u215	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u216	...of a political leader.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u217	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Mr. Merlo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u218	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I promise to be brief, because the explanation of motives and the chronology of this subject is sufficiently argumentated and clear, in the same way that it is also clear the blocking position on which it is being used as a bench to oppose a municipality by the PP. You are being great opponents in this cause, but bad rulers. In the middle of last November 22 it was intended to highlight this situation of the Vigo Metropolitan Area and to focus on the problem of the implementation of the urban transport concessionaire Vitrasa’s cancellations as a starting point, when the real problem — which was also put on the table — was that Junta should solve the cost of urban transport ticket integrated into metropolitan transport. Our demand was rejected, in which we urged Junta to assume the proportional part of the urban ticket according to the signed agreement, because it did not proceed. Today we are in the same, because what if it was to start a litigation-administrative process as a political tool against the Vigo Metropolitan Area... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u219	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u220	Using the Vigo Metropolitan Area as a political tool seems to us like an interference. The Metropolitan Area is not limited to transport, it is more than a bonobus, it is also a rare emergency door; a unique emergency door that is next to a shameful private parking lot in the Cunqueriro Álvaro; a Cunqueriro Álvaro as a private macrohospital that must meet the needs of the metropolitan area population; a hospital that, by the way, many Vigo neighborhoods, like Teis, ask for access if you don't have access to a proper transport line since the former general hospital was closed. If we focus on transport, we should say that the problem is not in urban transport, it is also in intermodal, projected and promised stations and never affected by Mr Feijó's Government. Maybe the next thing you do is start looking at everything that the Government of the Union has affected within the metropolitan area and the motivations to attack it. Let's expose the situation and move forward. For once the People's Group legislates in this matter for the interest of the population, no one's ring will fall. We hope that this motion will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u221	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u222	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Bará, you are in the process of your proposal in serious errors in memory and interpretation, I think you've missed your notes. Look, memory error, because in 2012 a constitutive session called to us by Mr. Abel Caballero was held. What he didn't do was choose the president. For two things: first, because there was a boycott by the mayor of Vigo and the socialist representatives of the Vigo Council; and, secondly, because the People's Party understood that it was irresponsible to move forward in the effective implementation of the Area by absent such an important part of the assembly. Look at the difference with what's going on today. Interpretation errors, too, Your Honor, because at the last constitutive session no one representative of the PP has left that session, just as when within a mouse the President of the Chamber suspends the session and you and me would probably leave here to eat, neither will you nor I be leaving the session, nor will we incur in breach of our obligations. By the way, on this subject, Vigo's own mayor said that he would be and would decide what the old table would decide on whether or not to continue. It's also true that it was until he got to the old table and found out that he didn't preside over her, because Mr. Mayor of Vigo can change his mind, which he doesn't change is tomorrow, tomorrow doesn't change. While he thought he was presiding, he respected her; when he didn't preside over her, then it's useless. And look, the action of the mayor of Salvaterra was not capricious, of course not. Look, it was guided by two reports issued by the Advisory Council, which indicated that it could proceed with the formal constitution of the Metropolitan Area, but not progress in its effective constitution. That's what that report said. Look, the first report requested — it is surprising, Mr Bará — by the mayor of Vigo said that in order to elect the president of the Metropolitan Area previously, the representatives of the municipalities of Gondomar and Moaña had to be properly appointed in order not to violate their political rights. Look, three months later neither the socialist mayor of Gondomar nor the nationalist mayor of Moaña corrected that irregularity. Do you have to see that these two representatives correspond to the People's Party instead of one to the PSOE and one to the BNG, as they have done so far? Does it have to do with it or does it not run so fast to solve the problems of the Metropolitan Area? The second report of the Advisory Committee, ladies and gentlemen, warned that in order to form the Area, it was essential, on a previous basis, that Vigo's urban transport should actually be integrated into the Galician metropolitan transport plan. We all know that this didn't happen, and in the face of that failure, what does Mr. Bará do? No, come here and ask the board to renegotiate: one mayor, one proposal, one law consensual with 14 municipalities and approved unanimously of this House, and that's what you call consensus. Bravo, Mr. Bará! But he also asks us to reach an agreement to implement the metropolitan transport agreement by guaranteeing -- literally -- "the same rates for all users regardless of their origin." By the way, what he's been defending the People's Party for months. I read you the additional tenth of the law, which is also the law. See point 1 — in relation to the incorporation of Vigo's transport — "This incorporation will be carried out under the same conditions as the rest of the Greek municipalities who adhered to the plan". Point 2: "Incorporation does not mean any increase to the Galician Union or to the other municipalities." Do you have any doubts, Mr Bará? Because if there's no economic increase for Junta, if there's no economic increase for the other municipalities, there's only two options: either they pay the users or they pay this bunch of Uncle Gilito who claims to have 97 million in the council box while fulfilling the obligations he made in the public signing of a convention, Mr Bará; that's the reality of what's happening in the Vigo Metropolitan Area, Your Honor. Look, now it's up to you to choose: users or council, ordinary people or seats in parliament. Because that's the real choice you're moving us to today, not another one, Mr Bará. Look, I do not want to stop talking about the amendment — if I may — the diabolical amendment that Mr Abel presented to you, I am not going to make the name. Look, first of all, because he finds out you have no idea what metropolitan transport is. A quick question, look, buses between different cities: urban; buses in the same city: urban. The city's most urban area: metropolitan transport. When I understand this, we can talk about more transport issues, otherwise. [[Applause]] And, by the way, I won't tell you anything else, so far I'll just tell you 41-14, which seems like you enjoy with the marker. Look, what this amendment is going to do is make it clear what BNG thinks. Because look, Mr Bará, if you don't accept this amendment, you're acknowledging that the demands of the People's Party for relations and transport are legitimate, and the only reason for you not to support this is that you prefer to attack the PP to defend your neighbours. But it can also happen that you accept it, and if you accept it, that the BNG and anyone who supports that vote renounces the neighborhoods of Moaña, and the rest of the Vigo area, access urban transport under the same conditions as the neighbors of Carballo or Fene, ruled by the BNG...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u223	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u224	...who are using the urban transport of the Coruña or Ferrol, governed by tides. But what's the matter, that Vigo's and the metropolitan area are worse conditions? We say, same obligations, same advantages. I ask you to reflect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u225	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u226	...—yes, I'm done now—they have to think about it, because where the Joint Transport Plan was implemented, the costs of public transport have been reduced. That's where the PSOE boycotted him with the convolence of the BNG and the tides, the only thing that happened is that he just went up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u227	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u228	...the ticket and they just gave you 600,000 euros more from the public transport dealership.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u229	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u230	I wonder who works for these public concessions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u231	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u232	Mr Pajos has seen us in this debate. I was reminded of a person I met in Bos Aires, of Argentina's emigration, Mr. Paco Lores, who is a director of the Galician Federation of Cultural Societies, who told me an anecdote with Arturo Quadrado. Arturo Quadrado was a very festive person, so Paco Lores had, and he still lives, a very fiery and very encouraging character, and when he changed a lot, Arturo Quadrado said to him, "Don't get angry, Paco, have fun." I'd say, "Don't be angry, peace, have fun." Don't be like that, neither is the thing. [[Applause]] Well, I also thank you very much for giving me those lessons about the whole procedure and the whole process, but don't worry that I've already read — I've been concerned to read — the resource, which is your source of inspiration and information, the litigation-administrative resource of the Council's lawyer, where he reports precisely that version. That's the version they'll have to tell the courts if that's the right version. In any case, this subject and others, which we'll see later in the afternoon debate, are their obsessions, their obsessions that are sick obsessions, against certain municipal governments. That way of making opposition from the Government to me seems completely contradictory. With regard to the transport of the metropolitan area, in its agreement, in clause 10, it states exactly that the resolution of possible contentious issues which could be raised by non-compliance or interpretation of its clauses will be resolved, by default between the parties — which would be the logical solution — and given the administrative nature of the agreement, by the litigation-administrative jurisdiction. But for the transport agreement, not against the metropolitan area. And in addition, there is a follow-up committee that can solve these issues. So what you want here is to go through history as the landfillers of the Vigo Metropolitan Area. They're preposing private interests and partisans in a confrontational strategy that interests them in electoral matters, using the Government to attack, to oppose the municipalities. I think they're showing a short glance and that they lack broad vision, generosity and vision of the future so they can reach agreements with governments that have been democratically elected and that they have all the legitimacy to defend their interests. So, we insist, we call for dialogue, a call for consensus, if we want to do mediation tasks, there's no problem. I'm from Vilaboa, which is a municipality that is not in the Vigo Metropolitan Area, but we offer ourselves there, if they want neutral ground, to arrive at agreements. So, make an effort, too, give in, as if you gave in to the 2016 Law agreement, don't put a stop to it, don't boycott the Vigo Metropolitan Area. Abandon those positions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u233	About the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u234	...—if—to get to the mountain, and therefore demonstrate the ability to reach agreements. And with regard to the amendment, of course, we have no problem, because I think it nuances, completes and clarifys the position that this group stands for. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u235	Thank you, Mr Bará. [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera asks for the floor.]] Yeah? What do you want the word for? [[Mr. Egerique Mosquera speaks words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to Mrs. Egerique's chair. Give Mrs. Egerique a voice, please. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u236	For allusions. Under Article 76.1, for allusions, I ask for the speaking time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u237	It was mentioned, and you weren't in the debate. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u238	Clarification: We offer truthful, true and clear information about the transport agreement signed by the mayor of Vigo. All the metropolitan concelers, all the metropolitan concelers... use these same information boxes... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u239	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u240	...to explain what the real fares of transport are, and remain very clear. The PSOE governments are photo and signature governments, and the PP governments are fact, commitment and action governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u241	Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Losada Álvarez asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for, Mr. Losada?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u242	To remove the expression "Uncle Gilito" from the mayor of Vigo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u243	Sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u244	I think you should retire, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u245	Let's see...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u246	I think you should retire, especially when blue shirts disturb and chords disturb.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u247	Quiet. Quiet, please! We're not going to take the thing to the ends of it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I'm sorry, it's necessary in Parliament too, when it's used without wickedness, and this president agrees... No, sorry, I didn't intrude evil because it was... besides, it wasn't a reference to the mayor of Vigo, I didn't understand it that way. [[Murmurs.]] I interpreted it this way, and at no time did he mention it that way. It is also necessary in Parliament — and I allow this game — to do something irony, if it is respectful. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So I don't think it's coming. And he knows that allusions, in addition, do not respond. [[Murmurs.]] So let's go to the last non-law proposition. Let's make it substantial. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the decision of the General Directorate of Tributes, of the Ministry of Farm, to abolish the exemption from VAT for the services provided by the professionals and lawyers and prosecutors to the shift of office
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u248	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u249	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u250	Good morning. Well, President, as this goes right, the doctrine of the precedent also has to do with the right and the Rules of Procedure of the House too, because from now on we will have a precedent for all Members and all Members every time we are quoted in a debate in which we have not intervened. We can do a demanding text and read it in our interventions, because, if it can be once, it can be up to infinite, although the doctrine of the precedent is not a doctrine very peculiar to the comparative right. [[Applause]] Justice is a public service, and the duty of office undoubtedly constitutes a fundamental part of the provision of this public service. The Greek Government has frozen the amounts it sends to prosecutors and lawyers who have been developing this public service since 2009, and from here, if I am in the debate, we claim that there is an improvement in the breakdown of concepts included in the clearing bar. And I'm going to put some examples. In the course of the jury's proceedings, a lawyer in the office receives a subsidy of EUR 591; in the form of a divorce procedure, EUR 350—more or less—are round amounts, because there are also cents—; in the case of a criminal procedure of special complexity—i.e., reading more than 1,000 folios, expressly says the decree—, EUR 455—two euros per leaflet, in addition to the rest of the expenses—; in the case of exits to prison—care, no more than twice by procedure, including those of more than EUR 1000 folios—, and in the case of a competitive procedure, nothing expressly, because the barrem does not specify it, neither mediation nor arbitration, for example. Since the 1986 General Tax Office of the Ministry of Finance issued a resolution in 1986 the services rendered by lawyers and prosecutors on their own behalf, or assistance to detainees, are compulsory, so the amounts to which the Administration is required are neither remuneration nor compensation. Then I'll explain this as "mandatory," because there's a popular legend that says the shift of duty is voluntary. Well, we'll explain that no, that in Spain it's not voluntary. Just a month ago, the same General Tax Office changed the criterion and declared it to end the VAT exemption. So in Galicia there will be -- or there would be -- around 2,500 professionals for thirty years now who will have to pay the VAT for the amounts they receive on their own. According to Montoro, his motivation is in a judgment by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which speaks of Belgium's shift of office, and concludes by saying that Belgium's shift of office is voluntary and that VVI must be abolished. Well, we deny the biggest. In Spain, and in Galicia, too, to point out, taking part in the shift of duty is voluntary, but at the moment one enters the shift of duty and assigned to him a client is irrevocable; the causes of resignation in order to be able to handle a matter of duty are so small, so limited and they have to be so well justified that they practically do not exist. So it's mandatory. And by the way, it's 100% free for the beneficiary, because that's what the Constitution says. I mean, the client couldn't pay the EVI, he couldn't assume it. This means that when you're lending that public service to the shift of duty does not operate on the market, you don't choose your client, you don't charge a price, you charge a State subsidy, according to the 1996 Free Legal Assistance Act. Amounts - as many as I've already given examples - that I've explained they're rickets. The saddest of all is that what Montoro did, taking as an excuse this judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, was an interpretation... — I hope the president will admit the word — tortured the sentence and said it was mandatory from that moment to abolish the IVE lawyers and prosecutors who attend the shift of duty and assistance to detainees. On the basis that it was theoretically mandatory, the first question is: who should assume that bill? We understand that it should be the Administration, because that 21% would have been able to reduce even more the amount of the racket. But you have to issue an invoice and, of course, to whom is that bill issued, to those customers who, according to the Constitution, have free legal assistance, to those who live in a trailer on the street, or who sleep in a banker or who are in a criminal proceedings for theft because they want to continue consuming psychotropic substances? Well, those, apparently, are the ones who have to issue the bill and demand that they pay the VAT. The shift of office, for example -- I've explained that it's not voluntary but compulsory -- it's so anachronistic that the criminal judges ask the schools of lawyers to design lawyers and prosecutors to defend legal persons, but the Constitutional Court says that legal persons are not entitled to free legal benefit. But lawyers and prosecutors are obliged, because they are appointed by their college of lawyers for that defense or for that representation in the case of prosecutors. So they'd have to do an absolutely free job because they're obliged. We are not Belgium, fortunately in this case and unfortunately in many others. The second question is where you're going to come from, where you're going to subtract those amounts from 21% plus. And we smell that the intention is to remove them from the funds that have been budgeted to fund the right to free legal aid, thus prejudging the provision of a service that is a fundamental right, the right to effective judicial custody of article 24 of the Constitution. The Socialist Parliamentary Group believes that in no case should the funds be deducted from the fund to finance the shift of duty for free legal assistance, but - and in this case they come to us as a ring to the finger - in any case, from the fund of continence. At this point, by pressure from the professionals, because this is what the law says and because, in addition, the Socialist Party presented several initiatives at the Congress of Deputies, Montoro ended up clodicating and said that the VAT would be paid by the Ministry of Justice, and by the autonomous communities where he was transferred. So he passed the paper to the autonomous communities, and assumed it without saying whether we are or not Belgium. I mean, following the instructions that Montoro set, Galicia, the Galician Union, is going to have to pay the tax. This year, in the budgets that you have just approved exclusively, the shift of duty has been properly adjusted, made a little, and you're going to receive 11 million euros. We ask that the application of the EVI should be made up of 2 euros more, a cost, not that it remains of these 11 million initials, without forgetting — we understand — that yours would be that the system would continue to be exactly the same as it has been since the last 30 years of its application. [[Murmurs.]] And that is why we ask the Galician Parliament to urge the Government to assume this over-the-counter charge which will assume the decision of the General Tax Office of the Ministry of Finance that the services provided by professionals assigned to the shift of duty cease to be exempt from VVI, resulting in an increase in the budget share for this purpose. I'll talk about the amendment later, in my second intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u251	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an issue which has recently emerged in January, particularly on January 25, 2017, as Mrs Vilan has already said. In fact, there is a decision by the General Tax Office of 1986 in which the services provided by lawyers and prosecutors in their duties are free public services and therefore these compensations are not remuneration or compensation for their benefit and are therefore exempt from VAT. It has been an absolutely undisputed subject in Spain for the last thirty years, and we agree with that criterion. And who breaks up with this criterion? It is not Mr. Montoro, Mrs. Vilán, you have jumped one step, it is the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union; a judgment that, as you well said, was in particular a case - not in Belgium - in Spain, where the services of free legal aid are voluntary and non-compulsory, as you manage to defend in your speaking order. And from that judgment there is a consultation binding on the Directorate-General for Taxation, not Mr. Montoro. So it's not a political decision, but it's an absolutely technical matter, as you well know, and therefore the binding consultation with the Directorate-General of Tributes says that, indeed, this sentence affects us and that these services are no longer exempt from VAT. There are, therefore, two positions: those that we say must remain exempt from VlV and those who maintain, as you do in your initiative - that you have already lost this battle - that says that, since they will have to pay the VlV, that the Autonomous Community should do so. Well, we have tabled an amendment in which we say that they are not voluntary services, as in Belgium, and that there are still technical arguments to defend the non-repercussion of EVV, given the mandatory nature of assistance. You have just said that you deny the biggest, but in your motion for a resolution you do not deny the greatest, because you say that you give more budget to Join and that it is the Junta who pays it, so I think it's important to know what position we defend here. We continue to defend the position that the Ministry of Justice is negotiating with the Ministry of Farming in collaboration and with the hand of the General Council of Law of Spain, which you know is an unresolved issue, which is an issue that is not closed and that is still under negotiation, and we do not give that battle for loss. In our amendment, what we ask is that these services continue to be exempt from VAT; likewise, Your Honor, that the Socialist Parliamentary Group requests in the Congress of Members, because you should read... Well, if you know, then what the Socialist Parliamentary Group requests in the Congress of Members will accept our amendment, because we ask exactly the same as the Socialist Parliamentary Group in the Congress of Deputies. [[Murmurs.]] So, I guess we're all in agreement. Because, Mrs Vilán, we, if the objective of this non-law proposal is that the lawyers and prosecutors who are registered on the job continue to do their work effectively, efficiently, exempt from VAT, because we are all in agreement and will therefore come out of this debate with a common proposal so that this proposal, voted unanimously from all groups of the House, comes to where it has to come and puts pressure on it. Now, if the goal is another, then we won't be useful either to prosecutors or lawyers, asking for our cooperation in this matter. And if we want to be useful and not to use partially an issue that, as you well know, is technical-legal and non-political, because for thirty years neither the Socialist Government nor the Government of the People's Party in the State have changed their opinion but it was a judgment by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which, by saying a resolution, in a country with a legal and technical situation completely different from Spain... now the General Tax Office makes a different interpretation. We, like you said, still think we don't have the same parameters in Belgium and we keep thinking that we still have to fight the battle that this public service is still free of VAT. Therefore, the amendment we tabled, Mrs Vilán... because we, the resolution, its proposal, cannot accept it because it says: "The Parliament urges the Union to take on the subrecusto which it will assume the decision of the Directorate-General for Taxation that the services provided by the professionals assigned to the shift of duty cease to be exempt from VAT, resulting in an increase in the budgetary departure for this purpose." We don't think the board...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u253	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u254	...he had to assume this overcost. Our amendment is that these services are still exempt from VlV. So we don't give up that battle. If you give it to her, come on! We cannot participate in this proposal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u256	I try to follow that old maxim that is altered from: "The brave doesn't take it off." I would therefore like to announce that on the part of the BNG Group we share the view of the People's Group and we support this amendment in any case because it seems to us that it enriches the agreement. We're actually talking about a fundamental right to guarantee access to justice for people without resources, the shift of duty. It is also true that up to this point, the Ministry of Fairy had an assumption: that it left it exempt from VAT because it understood that it was a service which is rendered compulsory and free of charge. In any case, this change of opinion, supported by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, we believe that it is not obliged to comply with the Spanish State, although it is also true that the Minister of Fairy, at parliamentary headquarters, announced that the application of the VAT would go ahead, that it would be borne by - in a parliamentary response at least said - by the Administration and that, in the case of Galicia, it would increase expenditure by EUR 2.2 million. We, of course, have no interest in increasing the expenditure of the Galician Union and less on this issue and, in any case, increasing to finance the shift better. It is also true that the Minister of Justice made public statements saying that this was a matter that was open and that they were going to try to reach an agreement with the Ministry of Business. Therefore, our position would be in favour, as a first option, of not applying the VAT to this service, and, in the event that it is, of course, costed by the autonomous administration and which is not to the detriment of the necessary increase in compensation received by professionals from the office shift, making it clear that our first and best option we think it is not to apply -- because we understand that it does not derive from that judgment of the European Union court -- the VAT to this service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u257	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We also consider that, from the point of view of the right of effective judicial custody, of Article 24 of the Constitution, and more of the right to free justice, of Article 119, it cannot in any case result in an interpretation of the judgment or of the General Directorate of Tributes that undermines the right to access to justice of all persons. Obviously, in order to avoid that, it is necessary, first of all, that it does not impact the cost on counseling. And from there comes the problems, which was the problem, precisely, formulated by Montoro himself, " Uncle Gilito" of the Spanish economy. In this case, we understand that what justifies that alarm at the political level is a strictly legal matter, and I also agree substantially with what Mrs Prado said, which is a matter that still has a technical course. And it has a technical journey for one reason: because the General Tax Law, in Article 89, sets out what force the consultations have to do with the Directorate General Taxation, and establishes that its binding is unique and exclusively in relation to tax obligations, which does something that binds the Administration but does not even establish a relationship between the two parties, in such a way that it is not even possible to consult itself, only the decision that emerges from the administrative procedure as a result of that consultation, and that in any event would be maintained, if it were the case, in both the law or jurisprudence applicable to the case has been maintained. I believe that there is a mistake of departure here and that, indeed, I consider - and we consider - that the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union does not apply to this case. So the ones who got the kick were the Tribute General Directorate. Then we'll see if the courts say they put it or not, because Article 89.4 then allows to appeal, as a result of the General Tax Office's resolution, the result. Sure, so why are we here? We are here precisely by the statements of Uncle Gilito on this, which gives him a dimension that makes us betray this to Parliament, because it is the minister himself who makes a difference to Parliament's assumption of cost, and that is why it can compromise the proper functioning of the free justice service. That's what we're trying to avoid. So we are in line with this proposal and we would like an agreement on that transaction to be reached. It seems reasonable to us because the debate would walk in the strictly legal term, if it wasn't for the eruption of Montoro, but, since it broke out, we also have to establish a prevention, and that prevention of that political attempt must give rise to what we clearly say we are going to safeguard above all the content of the right to effective judicial custody, to safeguard before all the right that everyone can access, regardless of their economic situation, to jurisdiction, the right that professionals and professionals will not have to suffer the costs of this 21%, in the event that it was imposed, and the right that this also does not have a limited amount of funds available for free justice. So, as we have to make up for all this, that's why we, in this case, will support this motion; we would prefer the amendment. I don't know if you'll come to an agreement or not, but we'd like it to be yes, because we want here too to transmit to the House that it is a technical matter, that can be solved by the technical way, and that the political solution, which was to put the sale before the wound, which Montoro did, may be innocent or not. He may be innocent in the sense that he does not know what the operation is or what the dynamics of the Directorate General of Tributes are and what the scope of that tax consultation of article 39 might be, or perhaps it's just a balloon probe. So we, in any case, will make that pronouncement in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u259	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u260	The truth is it's quite surprising that it's said that this is a technical decision and that it's not a political decision. At the moment, the General Tax Office of the Ministry of Finance has a post, someone who runs it, which is a high office, and therefore is a politically designated body. The decision to apply to Spain the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union was therefore a political decision of the Spanish Minister of Finance. It's very curious. The truth is, unfortunately, for once we agree with what Minister Montoro says. It is also sad to coincide with him, but we appreciate that Mrs. Paula Prado openly criticizes Mr. Montoro. We missed his criticism when that law of fiscal amnesty was made in relation to corruption; the truth is, it would be good if he had also manifested himself at that time. [[Applause]] We know that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has presented to Congress an initiative, precisely to which we have registered it in this Parliament, and that is probably where the difference lies. And, moreover, we do not trust ourselves that if we ask exclusively to keep the situation the same -- Montoro said that the administrations would assume it; that is, he already gives for fact that his political decision to apply the European Union's judgment will go to Mass, never better said -- as we smell -- I mean -- that this may not happen, alternatively we put this second solution. In any case, we, of course, agree because we've talked to the professionals. We didn't come here with initiatives that we took out of the joke, we came here with initiatives that we were asked to do from outside. After talking to the professionals, we know that what we want is to keep the situation exactly the same as it has existed in Spain for 30 years, and therefore we propose a transaction, which is the following, with the following text: "The Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to address the Ministry of Justice in order to understand VAT exemptions for services rendered by lawyers and prosecutors in the office; and, in a subsidiary way, to assume the over-cost which will be subject to the decision of the General Directorate for Taxation of the Ministry of Finance that the services rendered by professionals employed in the office cease to be exempt from VAT, resulting in an increase in the budget allocation for this purpose." Because since this, in your opinion, Mrs. Paula Prado, is a technical decision, if the Ministry tells the technicians, if Mr. Montoro tells the technicians, that we are like Belgium, it will not be possible for us to be in the situation thirty years ago and we will have to change it. And who's going to have to pay the IVE? The lawyers? The customers who live on the street? We believe that, in a subsidiary way, it is always better to have a second alternative. If we're accepted for the transaction, that's great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u262	After we have finished the debate on the proposals, we proceed to vote on them. We begin by voting on the proposal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the intentions of the Ferroatlantic company to segregate its activities in the production of electricity and railways, as well as the sale of hydroelectric power stations in the rivers Xallas and Grande. Is there a transaction proposal? Yes, if I do. Pending a transaction, there was a fine, he remained ready to accept his amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u263	We have a compromise proposal on part of the text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u264	Let's see. There was an amendment from the People's Parliamentary Group, you said yesterday that on the amendment from the People's Parliamentary Group can you... haven't you dealt with the transaction? It is a question of whether or not the People's Parliamentary Group accepts the amendment. It seems that this amendment, moreover, has already been accepted in committee, as it has been. So, we're going to vote on that, will we vote on the amendment agreed to by the PP?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u265	No, it's a compromise proposal according to the text we approved in Commission 6 the other day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u266	Let's see. It's the transaction they made the other day, so it's the same thing. The other day in the commission they made a transaction and they came up with a proposal, it's the same. So we vote the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u267	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u268	We voted the same on the other day. We voted for the amendment of the other day, the amendment tabled by the PP, which is the transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u269	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u270	All right, let's vote. Perfect. Let's vote. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and Da María Dolores Toja Suárez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the intentions of the Ferroatlantic company to secrete its activities in the production of electricity and railways, as well as the sale of hydroelectric power plants from the rivers Xallas and Grande. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 66; votes against, 0; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u271	We are now voting on the People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy, on the preparation by the Government of Greece, with the participation of the Galician External Action Council, a report on the possible impact of Brexit on the Greek economy and its productive sectors. It seems that there is a transaction that is agreed through an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, if you can read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u272	Yes, Mr. President. The transaction says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to prepare, with the participation of the Galician External Action Council and the Economic and Social Council, a report on the possible impacts of Brexit on the Greek economy and its productive sectors. The Board will inform Parliament of the development of this report, in any case before the end of 2017."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u273	We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Galician people, at the initiative of Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and eight other Members, on the elaboration by the Government of Galicia, with the participation of the Galician External Action Council, a report on the possible impact of Brexit on the Greek economy and its productive sectors. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u274	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group. It seems that there has been no agreement, so we voted on the proposal as it is. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and seven other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in order to consolidate the use of children's homes. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 6; abstentions, 27. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u275	We now vote for the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García. We vote. Voting of the motion for a non-law of G.P. In Marea, on the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the judgments handed down by the Supreme Court in December 2016 concerning municipal charges for private use or special use of the local public domain. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u276	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the application by the Councilloría de Cultura, Educación e Ordación Universitaria do Decree 79/2010 of 20 May, for multilingualism in non-university education in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u277	We voted for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the opening by the Government of Greece of a negotiating table with the health union organizations to recover the agreements reached in 2008 in relation to the labor and remuneration conditions of Sergas staff. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u278	We are now voting on the Non-Legal Proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Xosé Bará Torres and five other Members. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in order to unlock the launch of the Vigo Metropolitan Area. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u279	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other Members. A compromise proposal has been read and is not accepted by the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the decision of the General Directorate of Tributes, of the Ministry of Fairy, to abolish the exemption of the VAT for the services provided by the lawyers and professionals of the professions of the law and the prosecutor's office assigned to the shift of duty. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u280	We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u281	Good afternoon. We restart the session with the seventh item on the agenda, questions to the Government. Question from Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the date scheduled by the Government of Galicia for the opening of the Museum of the Wines of Galicia in the rectoral of Santo André de Campordondo, in the municipality of Ribadavia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u282	We begin with the question of Mrs Noela Blanco Rodríguez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u283	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today we will ask you about a jewel of the Baroque of the province of Ourense, which is located in Ribadavia, the rectoral of Santo André de Campordondo; an architectural set that belonged at first to the Bishopship, who later became managed by the Council of Rivadavia — the socialist council of those too, not only now, of Ribadavia — and which later transferred to the Union of Galicia. The goal of this transfer was to launch the Galician Wine Museum, and the location I understand was not random. We find ourselves in a province of Ourense, where there are four of the five designations of origin in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Well, it's been thirty-one years since that assignment, where the government of the bipartisan has done a reconstruction, maintenance and some conservation work to try to put this infrastructure in place, this museum space, which has been paralysed since. The latest news on this issue is from 2015, after the autonomous elections, when the House of Ourense was offering to work together with the Council of Galicia to put it into effect. It must be borne in mind that all that is missing is human resources and some very specific material resource that is missing, since it is fully equipped with the entire internal infrastructure. We are in favour of this collaboration between entities, and we are told, in addition, to the Socialist Group and all the Orensans, that in the Ourense Deputies there are enough workers so that they can move to the museum space of the wine. Last week I was visiting with the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and with the mayor of Ribadavia this space, and what we found was, Counselor, a bit despondent. A space I recommend, ladies and gentlemen, which, if they do not know him, approach the province of Ourense to see him, of immense wealth in heritage, which is completely abandoned, practically covered by weeds and which is closed. This can't be the image that both Ribeiro's district — an eminently touristic region too — and the province of Ourense are giving to the people who visit us and also to the neighbors and neighbors of this area. We visited him — as he was told — because the socialists used to approach him there not only in the election campaign — as they do from the People's Party, to constantly promise that he will be opened immediately; we do so regularly and we continue to see that the state is the same. What I want to ask you today is, clearly, when you are planning to open this museum space, open it to the public and set up a tourist resource that we consider to be very important to the province of Ourense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u285	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u286	Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Blanco, let's be glad you visit the Ribadavia Museum, no doubt it's fantastic to visit. [[Laughter]] It is a jewel of rural civil baroque with compostal influences, and we rejoice that you visit it. Fortunately, you mentioned here that this is a project that has been in management for many years. And I also want to tell you that surely and fortunately this Government will be the one who put the branch of this initiative that, as you say, was born a long time ago. He pretended to be a socialist council that put him on the move. Well, look, that building was handed over to a socialist council in the late 1980s. Later, at the beginning of the 1990s, he passed to the Council of Galicia. In the meantime, a socialist government did a series of works — which, by the way, had to be destroyed because they were useless —. And surely, Mrs. Blanco, I would also tell you to try to be cautious, because you cheerfully say that it was the Bipartite who executed that work. [[Murmurs.]] I'm going to tell you that it was in a budgetary departure of the year 2004 when the economic amount of around EUR 1.2 million was fixed, that it subsequently developed, and obviously ended in the period of the Bipartite; but who bet on this museum was at that time Mr. Fraga's Government. You're done, but you can say a little more. [[Applause]] In any case, I'm going to tell you that this is an important project for us, for the Government. We have the utmost intention of getting him out of the way. I don't share what you said it's already done practically, there's a building -- fantastic rehabilitation, but just a building -- it's necessary to develop and launch a museum project. By the way, there was one in 2009 that had to be modified because its cost was absolutely disproportionate, and it had to be done later, in 2014, adjusted to reality; a museum project that is about 0.7 million euros — by the way, there is a budget game in the budget — and that will be carried out. And there's only one question we're negotiating right now, we're negotiating the maintenance of the assignment with the Bishop. In any case, when this question is over, which is a question of processing, it's not just a crypt, but it has a very complex administrative process, we can put in place this jewel of our cultural heritage, which is going to be an important element for the rehabilitation of everything that has to do with a region as rich in landscape resources as Ribeiro is. Let's hope, when it does, you're happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u288	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u289	Thank you very much, President. I hope, Counselor, to see that work completed and open to the public. I hope you won't put a crown on it, but a branch, as you said here today in answer to this question. There was an amendment by the Socialist Group to increase the budgetary share which was allocated to the Galician Union and which was rejected — like many others — by the People's Group. A fine that was intended to increase the budget allocated to, as you say, end... because you're contradicting yourself. If resources need to be included further, why not increase the amount of the budget? With regard to the Bipartite — from the worst evil, that everything we built was also to overthrow it... because it didn't touch the cathedral of Santiago, which, if not, too — you didn't run that game, it was the Bipartite, so the work ended in 2009. Counsellor, we've been complaining for years since that county that this project was being launched, and you... by the way, a project that won awards for the rehabilitation of the Galician College of Architects -- I don't know if you know it, which was to be overthrown. Before I saw the members of the People's Party of Ourense province, in particular the district of Ribeiro, to those who seem to be very grateful for this. It's funny, one of them, spokesperson of the municipal group in Ribadavia; the other, one very much related to the wine sector, which were awarded precisely by keeping the district of Ribeiro in that dislocation as well. Just as Mr Viso was also awarded a position at the Congress of Deputies despite his failure, as president of the Ribeiro Source Denomination, not a single approved contract. These are the prizes given by the People's Party for the management of its militants. I hope, Counsellor, that now, in the second round of speeches, we will be able to realize exactly when this museum is going to be launched and that it will stop making an excuse...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u290	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u291	...of the Bishop, because it's been decades...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u292	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u293	...that the processing has already taken place. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u294	Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u295	Mrs. Blanco, what do you want me to tell you? There was an initial transfer of the Bishopship, 25 years old, which ends in 2018, and we are negotiating a second assignment to be able to implement the project. [[Murmurs.]] We have a budget split of EUR 715,000 in application EUR 1021432, of EUR 714,000; we have a museum project done; we have a management model in which the museum will be complementary to the Rivadavia Energy Museum; and we are actually launching what is most technically and administratively complex: renewing the transfer agreement for 25 years. If you want to talk here about the approved contracts... look, you already see that you are very concerned about this cultural heritage, but, in any case, I'm going to tell you, Mrs. Blanco, that you have to be a little more prudent, because in your pursuit of trying to hang medals you have to know that the project that was so awarded was a project where there was a fixed budget match and a project set in 2004. Afterwards, obviously, the socialists had to finish the project already started, but you mustn't undo it. So I'm telling you that we have a museum project; we have a budget share; we also have a management model linked to the Energy Museum; we also have an agreement with the House of Ourense so they can use some of the museum's facilities for D.O. promotion activities. from the province, which is a very important participation; and we are managing with the Bishop an extension of the assignment of around 25 years. From there, I think it's all over the table, and I just ask you that the day we put the branch in this museum and this work you rejoice and accompany us at the inauguration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u296	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures envisaged by the Galician Union to ensure the ownership and civil use of the Galegos Illustres Pantheon
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u297	Question by Mrs Olaya Rodil of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u298	Thank you, President. In the past Plenary — you will remember the councillor and you will remember all the honourable senators — this House unanimously adopted an institutional statement supporting the name of Rosalía de Castro to Lavacolla Airport; a move that also included the unanimous support of the Municipal Corporation of the Town Council of Compostela and even — so stated in a statement the Spanish Minister for Development and the President of the Union — also welcomed the Ministry of Development. Paradoxes of life! Anyone who goes down to that future Rosalía de Castro airport and wants to honor the remains of the poet can only do so if he has permission from the Archbishop of Compostela. And you won't be able to access the pantheon either by the main door, closed, except for exceptions authorized by the Church itself. Of course: the poet rests on a stand held by the same Catholic Church that denied the author prayer on the day of his transfer to Bonaval in 1891. A negative that the Church argued for its profane poetry and political ideas, as the press of the time has recorded in its chronicle. The same church that was so criticized was in Rosaly's work for unfair and greedy keeps reserved for itself the right of admission to the pantheon; even after having signed with her would advise a decree that regulates the regime of visits. Now, the Church — which the bank always wins — has guaranteed for itself also in that decree that it is the German Government who assumes the costs of maintaining this good of cultural interest. Since the BNG we have asked in this House, on no occasion, that the Pantheon of Galegos Illustres must once again be a civil and lay space, as it was conceived at the time of its creation. And it was because of this secular and civil nature that the remains of Rosalía, Brañas, Fontán, Asorey and Castelao are buried in it. Before the 180th anniversary of Rosalía de Castro's death, we asked him, counsellor, what measures he intends to take — if he plans to adopt some of his advice and the Government of Greece — to secure the title and civil use of the Pantheon of Galegos Illustres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u299	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Rodil, we all agree — I hope that we will also agree with you on this issue — that the Pantheon of Galegos Illustres represents us all of the Greeks. And that all the Greeks are proud of this symbol, which is already a symbol of Galicia and, no doubt, one of the institutions that has a stronger footprint in the collective creation that is Galicia. It's a symbolic space, there are six of the great people of our contemporary history, you quoted them: Rosalía, Fontán, Brañas, Cabanillas, Castelao, Asorey. And many people already understand that the pantheon is, so to speak, Galicia's fourth symbol. We have the anthem, we have the flag, we have the shield, and the pantheon is called to be the fourth symbol that identifies and binds us to all the Greeks. Obviously, I have to point out some questions that you said here and that I think you're conscious, another thing is that you recognize them or try to play with them. When you talk about the title of the pantheon, you obvious an important question, and there's a court sentence that has caused this space to end in the hands of the Church. First he was managed by the Town Hall, and then that court sentence placed him in the hands of the Church. It was a long judicial process. Then there's a new Supreme Court ruling, and we're back in 2010. In that year 2010 there is an objective concern for the Government of Greece to facilitate access to this symbol of Galicia — a Holy Year. At that time, the Council of Culture itself did a management before the archbishopship to facilitate access; access through the Museum of the Galician People is absolutely free to visit these great lodgers. Guaranteed public access, guaranteed opening, and obviously, for certain events, it is necessary — as you will understand — to talk to your owner. From here on, I believe that there is both the position of the People's Party and the position of the Galician People's Union and the position of many many Greeks, both in the civil and political fields, and that there is a bill drawn up in 2011, in this case by the Galician Council of Culture, along with the Galego People's Museum and with foundations that have much to do with the pantheon such as the Brañas Foundation, the Castelao Foundation, the Rosalía Foundation, which in some way sets the road map that we expect to start a consensus and sets everything that has to do with the use and enjoyment of the Greek pantheon. We understand that this starting point should be taken into account. Obviously, we also know BNG's posture and pretension, that's what you just said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u301	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u302	It's been debated, it's been refused...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u303	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u304	...it is not — let's say — shared by most of the Greeks, it has been rejected in this House. In any case, if I may tell you, Mrs. Rodil, that the Council of Galicia will support and collaborate on the solution that, as a result of the consensus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u305	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u306	...from and forth of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u307	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u308	Thank you, President. I think it's very respectful of the bill you brought here. You know — I believe — this whole House also has the opinion of our group on this. In fact, you, at the beginning of your intervention, made a fencapé in a question, that the Pantheon of Galegos Illustres already exists; it existed and was created in the 19th century, and that bill raises or formulates an alternative to which we did not agree. The possibility of placing cards in other spaces is formulated yet to be identified in the capital of Galicia. We understand that what is needed is to find a solution to the placement that today holds the pantheon itself, because it is also what possesses that symbolic burden and that representativeness to which you referred. You're talking about the fourth symbol, there we could probably open up more debates, but we understand that there's a solution now to the placement we already have. We understand that this space, originally conceived in its creation as a Pantheon of Galegos Illustres, as a space of public ownership and a secular space, must recover that consideration, every time a part, in addition, of the architectural set—we can say so—compose that demortization—the case of the Galego People's Museum— continues to belong to the public domain itself, right? The question we ask them is whether you think you're working to change the situation we have today. If you're thinking about the possibility of opening some kind of action or measure, that exist by the legal way. It is true that we have already debated in this House some of the proposals that we have put forward in this direction so that again, the pantheon is first of public ownership; then, a secular space of civil use; and most importantly, a good of cultural interest that we understand must be valued, should be promoted for its knowledge not only by the population of this country, but by all the people who visit every year the capital of Galicia, and that right now, in the situation in which we find ourselves and with that title in the hands of the Church, it is not being so. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u309	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u310	Mrs. Rodil, obviously, I share and defend that all ideologies are respectable. There's no ideology better than another, just... that's typical when someone thinks he's superior or has a superior ideology. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We certainly have many occasions when we see the ideological supremacy desired by some political formations that later takes place when it comes to practice. [[Applause]] In any case — and starting from his political ideology, from his nationalist ideology — I understand that his vision does not agree, or can become even exclusive, with which he wishes an immense majority of the Greeks and the Greeks. I believe that we must bet here on an important issue, on a great political consensus coming from Parliament, and the Union will support this agreement. There are the necessary critters to do this. There is a framework document, there are a number of agreements, and we have to work together on political training to try to reach this agreement. I think here, politically, what best defines us is our electoral programs. What do you say when you talk about the election program? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You, Lord of the Block, literally say: The recovery of the public title of the Pantheon of Galegos Illustres, preserving its civil and lay use. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Even so, they will be regulated by law their uses and management, declaring it as a historical pantheon, a national symbol of Galicia. That's his posture. We have another one, proposed in the electoral programme, which says the following: The adoption in the Galician Parliament of a law that recognizes the Pantheon of Galegos Illustres as a symbol of Greek culture, because it is necessary to resume the consensus around the self-esteem that confers culture. Obviously, if the citizens support this proposal, they will understand that we are going to defend this proposal from the point of view of the Union. You have all the legitimacy of the world to defend yours. Sometimes it also gives the feeling that what matters most to you, in some way, is having to manage this space with the Church. The Church, as far as we can tell, has never put any kind of impediment. You have access to the side, to the fence of the Museum of the Galician People, as you suppose you know you can access it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I don't think that the problem of the pantheon either goes through the fence of the Museum of the Galician People or enters the front door. With which, Mrs. Rodil, I think it's here, in this house, in the House, in the frame where we are, where we must define the content of an autonomous law that recognizes the pantheon as what it is, or above all what it is called to be, in our opinion, the fourth symbol of Galicia. We'll respect it, and with all we can do, we'll support everything we can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u311	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u312	...to pursue a consensus and political transformations. I think, beyond...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u313	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u314	...from a particular political vision, we must bet on that consensus and we must leave this House with an agreement in the form of a framework...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u315	Thank you, Counselor. It's all clear. Thank you. Question by Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and D. David Rodríguez Estévez, from G.P. of En Marea, on the forecasts of the Rural Environment Council for carrying out an analysis for the introduction of changes in the current process of recruiting the integral service of helicopters and brigades for the prevention and defence against forest fires and in the prevention, monitoring and coordination of air defences against them during the years 2017 and 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u316	Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u317	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. In OJ No. 7 of 11 January, the Rural Media Council published the resolution of 20 December 2016, announcing the tendering, by open procedure subject to harmonised regulation, of an integral service of helicopters and brigades to prevent and defend forest fires and to prevent, monitor and coordinate air defences against forest fires during the years 2017 and 2018, and the Adjudicatory Council Procurement Service. In the description of the contract, he speaks of the recruitment of the Integral Service of Helicopters and Brigades to prevent and defend fires, their monitoring, as well as the coordination of air media and fire defence during the years 2017 and 2018. Comes divided into lots. Lot number one, light-type helicopter, with corresponding personnel of heliported brigades. Lot number two, helicopter and coordinator technicians. A two-year extension is also envisaged. All of this amounts to EUR 3,800,000, and contains the estimated value of EUR 8,300,000, including possible extensions. The adjudication of air resources by public administrations has long begun to have certain problems with the alleged relationship between administrations and adjudicate companies, to such an extent that the National Audience itself decides to initiate a deep investigation into the adjudication of air resources by various autonomous communities, since this matter affects a considerable number of communities and countries, such as Portugal, France, Italy, Chile and, of course, Spain. It is a highly worrying issue, since the companies that investigate the National Audience would pay prices to each other to share the air media adjudication pie within the Spanish State. What we're concerned about today is Galicia. As you well know, the Council has admitted an appeal made by the IGC union in 2012, for prevarication against the former advisor, Rosa Quintana, against the former technical secretary general, Francisco José Vidal Pardo, and against the director general of Montes, Mr. Tomás Fernández Couto. The curious thing is that not only helicopters are hired, but also brigades are hired through the company Natutecnia, subcontracted at the same time by Inaer. This practice, which according to the council, occurred exceptionally close to the fire season in 2012, continues to date, but spreading much more. I mean, the helicopters are all from Inaer, and the helicopters are all from the company Natutechnia; a company that, curiously, did an internal audit of the Public Forest Fire Defense Service with a clear intention of reducing the number of brigades from the public service. Report, curiously, paid by the administration itself, that is, by all of us, and this very company, a date later, is hired to carry the heliported brigades. For all this, I'm going to ask you the question, which is whether the Rural Media Council is going to analyse in depth an aircraft model change and hire staff directly through the Galician Board through the 37/2006 Recruitment List Decree, of temporary staff, as it was done before, with much better results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u318	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, very late. Ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all show my perplexity for the arguments that indicate in the explanatory statement of this question, especially because they haven't read all the arguments that were being put forward. I do read them before you proceed to an answer. Here you move me the following: A deep analysis of the Court of Auditors' report has found, in previous years, that the Environmental and Rural Councils have changed and improvised criteria for the scoring of tenders submitted to various tenders when that assessment was already being made. I think that part you haven't read it now, and I think it was a bit of a kick or someone didn't advise you very well; and I say why. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the report of the Board of Auditors, to which it refers, effectively monitors the helicopter contracts in force in the years 2010 and 2011, which are in force, precisely because the procurement file was processed between the years 2007 and 2009 i.e., the Board of Auditors analyses the air media contracts that were processed and formalized when the Bipartite was governed. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the part they forgot to put right now on the table. [[Applause]] They're talking about a deep analysis of the report of the Board of Auditors. For they look, without much depth, at just one reading above, it turns out that the defects that you transcribe — literally — and estimate committed are specifically referred to the contract 1/2008, so 14 helicopters were hired for the prevention and extinction of forest fires during the years 2008 and 2009, which has nothing to do with our Government. You're going to finish by asking if we're going to analyse a model and aircraft change, and hire staff directly again through the Temporary Staff Recruitment List Decree, as was done before, and according to you, with much better results. I insist that I remain perplexed in this field, and it's for the next. Again, I must tell you that they don't know the circumstances of hiring fire prevention and extinction personnel. From 2008 until 2011 they were hired from the Galician Union for work and service, an average of 25 persons/year for the helicopters carried out in the summer campaign through the listing decree, in addition to the contracts that were made through Seaga. It was from 2012 onwards that a court ruling broke out of an application by the workers themselves.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u320	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u321	...when this council determined to create these jobs through an RPT as you did them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u322	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u323	We have here: The fire cartel cheated 150 million last year by setting up the public administration contest. According to sources of research, the case was extended to Catalonia, Galicia, Castile-León and Castile-A Mancha. Another of the year 2015: The prosecutor investigates for rural media prevarication in the hiring of helicopters. The Instruction Judge number 3 of Santiago de Compostela. The Galician Union has changed its award criteria to competitions that have already begun; November 4, 2014. So, what is clear, Counselor, is that our mount continues to burn more and more. The forest fire prevention and defense service brigades are now completely dismembered. When you announce on the radio, in the statements you make in the summer, that there are five fire brigades operating on it, we may be talking about that, perhaps, there are only five people, because there are brigades from the Public Service for Prevention and Defense against Forest Fires that don't count on all the personnel, they don't cover the casualties, they don't cushion retirements etc. Right now, we have over seven companies working to put out fires. The fire coordinators themselves are armed with various personnel, from Operation Centinela, from UME, from Tragsa, from the municipalities, from Natutechnia, from the Public Defence Service against Forest Fires itself. Right now, 20% of what the entire forest fire fighting device is public, and another 80% is privatized. I think we should go to a model that I bet on for public employment, that it defends workers and workers from the Public Defence Service against forest fires, and that they stop giving money to their friends' businesses. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u324	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u325	Thank you very much, President. I don't know what these companies are or what these friends are. You're talking about Portugal, Catalonia, Andalusia, Galicia, too, and I hope there were helicopters and aircraft companies just like there are construction companies, but it's the chance that it's not. Even so, I'll tell you that despite the contracts that are made by the Rural Council are harmonized contracts, which strictly comply with the law, the law also allows a market study, and that study I agree with all of you that we are going to do so, and we will consult the market to see which companies are the ones that are and the competitiveness within that market. That's planned within the law and, of course, this board is going to do it. As for the surface and the fires — sometimes we get angry and then we say things that are not right to be — I want to remind them of some data, and I also say that with the fire you don't play and that with the fire you don't get politics. But the data are there, around the corner, so I'll have to say — as much as it bothers some who have ruled at a given time, to which the Board of Auditors refers, and that the Member of En Marea so well drafted within what his argument is, and to which he refers the Board of Auditors, which are those contracts of 2007 and 2008, which later have their effect afterwards—that the surface burned down in the eight years of the People's Party's Government was 138,365 hectares. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The burnt surface — and they still blow and that must hurt a lot — in the four years of the Bipartite was 166,775 hectares. I mean, gentlemen... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. President, here I do want to make a clarification, because there is someone who is saying behind me that we cause fires. It seems like a terrible gravity, and then I think it would be good that this had been said up high and publicly, because we could get here! [[Applause]] Besides, as I'm also being told that you have explanations, so you say that, I would urge you to write to this House, to accuse whoever you had to accuse, and that all of us were aware of what we have to say. In fact, 166,775 hectares, four years of the Bipartite; 138,365 hectares, eight years of the People's Party's government. I think there's the difference between them. And if we start with that kind of accusations of those who set fire, really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u326	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u327	...that it is quite sad that this is done in a chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u328	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u329	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u330	Thank you, Counselor. We are now debating three questions in a cumulative way. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on concrete measures to be taken by the Conseilerie do Medio Rural to contain and eradicate the plague of Guatemalan cabbage which is affecting the potato Question by Mr Carlos Gómez Salgado and six other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, on the performances carried out and planned by the Government of Galicia in relation to the presence of the plague of Tecia solanivora or Guatemalan cabbage which is affecting the potato Question by José Antonio Quiroga Díaz and José Manuel Pérez Seco, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures being taken by the Government of Galicia to control the plague of the Guatemalan cabbage that is affecting the potato
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u331	We started with the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. They're more of animating afternoons than the end of the morning. It's food and coffee. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We don't buy potatoes. However we produced, this country produces, half a million tons in 2015; almost 20% of the state and nearly 20,000 hectares. In August 2015 Guatemalan cuz appeared in the municipalities of Ferrol, Narón and Neda, and in February 2016 it was already reaching Cervo, Foz, Viveiro, The Valadouro and Jupiter. A year later, at present, it is present in 31 counties of Ferrolterra and Marine Lucense. We know, so researchers and technicians tell us, that it's a kiss, because of their system of life, it's hard to attack. Here we had a similar one, but this one, unlike Guatemalan, was going to take the air in a phase of its development, and on the surface it was where we shot it in the air heels. This tourist doesn't, he stays in the tuber almost his whole life, except when he gets poisoned again; that is, when he comes out to take the air, he's already done the wrong thing. Traps with sex pheromones, the only control on earth at the moment, the part of bottom barrels and [...] generously. In storage it's easier, we use the pyrethrins, basically diaamides, which we already know for using them against the ugull. They go there two years of their detection and the measures taken by the Government of Galicia show us completely ineffective, and the plague progresses. The potato producers in this country publicly show their fears, not only for the threat of the plague, but for the politics of this councillor's cross arms. No one knows what to do, and neither does the Council, because the early potato is already on the ground, the seed is already bought and the soil is planted, and there is no updated guidelines. Only the containment and control measures advertised in the DOG of 3 November 2015 and what the newspapers say are actually maintained. There exists in the population of the affected areas officially a feeling of helplessness and uncertainty, and, above all, of not knowing what to do in the face of official silence. Silence! That waits for Madrid to give you an announced decree, as if the Galician Union had no full powers in the matter. This sense of defence is growing, and at the meetings that producers are conducting there is a feeling that they have the Administration against. Since this is a country in which almost all of the families who live in the field grow this tuber for self-consumption, it is clear that product control measures and awareness-raising and training campaigns to tackle this plague have been designed and active for some time. We, from the BNG, have asked him for an explanation in the name of the people, in the name of ourselves, the Greeks and the Greeks who, once again, feel...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u333	Thank you, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u334	... administrative silence and
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u335	Ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u336	...the cowardice of waiting to see what they send from Madrid those who never send...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u337	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u338	...good for us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u339	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Gomez Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u340	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, some more than a year ago, at the end of 2015, the first worms of the potato's elbow were detected in the Ferrolterra area. On November 3 of that same year, not even sixteen months ago, the DOG issued a resolution by the Conseileria do Medio Rural that declared the presence of the plague, the Tecia Solanivora, or Guatemalan coup. The decree already established the areas demarcated for this plague and proposed a wide battery of urgent measures for the control of the elbow in the Autonomous Community of Galicia which has been running over these months. Just ten days ago, on February 9, the Directorate-General for Gandery, Agriculture and Food Industries issued another resolution, which broadened the urgent measures that are now in place for the eradication and control of this plague. In addition, the Council has been holding frequent meetings both in affected areas and in areas where they are not to inform, hear and address different aspects of the fight against this potato parasite. Among them are mayors, farmers, associations, unions, and even the IXP Pataca of Galicia, which also develops important information and training work. However, it is known that the Mapama is submitting to consultations of the Governments of the Principality of Asturias and the Union of Galicia, in addition to the agricultural unions and producer organisations, the draft decree which is expected to be passed in mid-March, with a large battery of measures that will affect the entire traceability of the tuber — from the purchase of seed potatoes to transport, storage and marketing — all of them aimed at combating the expansion and elimination of the elbow. Although for the present time the problem is focused on a very specific area, 31 municipalities of Ferrolterra and the Marine Lucense, aware of the severity of the damage that it produces or could produce in the crops, and since then, in the marketing of potatoes, we want to ask you about this question: What actions have taken the Government of Greece since the presence of the pest of the potato thigh, or Tecia Solanivora, has been detected, and what are the future actions provided for in this ed?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u341	Thank you, Mr. Gómez Salgado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u342	Good afternoon, President. Counselor, ladies. The truth is, we're a little surprised by the media persistence of a problem that suddenly went from zero to 100. So, all of a sudden. It is true that this plague has put under focus a vegetable production which, without being autochthonous, has obtained letter of nature and central position in the culture and gastronomy of this country; a crop which some Greeks considered to be of little relevance, linked to self-consumption except in the areas of the Limia, Coristanco and Bergantinos, clearly focused on for sale. But this new catch for the field has also brought to light a small producer who spends a surplus on comarcal trade which requires a very important supplementary income in these times of socio-economic crisis. Finally, we are talking about millions of pounds and thousands of people affected — not just those of the 31 municipalities — who are not particularly calm about the course of events, and that is a reality that is not interpretable, but is easily visible. In fact there are many questions in search of answers, starting with the inexplicable delay in reacting to a problem that has been between us for two years; hence the surprise that many of us now find in the media. Many people wonder why they didn't act before neighbors, producers and warehousekeepers started sowing, buying, pacifying, planning their own plantations. Following the delay of the decree. We don't understand passivity by hanging out in the future publication, when the draft is still known. The information we understand has to and must be more categorical and clear, you can't act with assumptions. And because of the lack of effective and rapid information, it's degrading the market value of a fundamental product for a lot of people, with a damage that we understand that at this point, for the production of 2017, it's hard to restore. Continuing the questions, we wanted, too, to know if they're doing calculations. Today we read something in the press about budget forecasts to deal with losses, both in production and for loss of profits, according to the cases we analyzed in each of the circumstances. And apart from all this, by talking about pheromones traps, which seems to be used as a criterion to know the amount of pests in certain areas, we also wanted to know whether economic resources will be allocated for research, a key factor in finding other formulae and strategies to fight, eradicate or at least stop this pest. There's also another important aspect, which is geographic continence, which seems to us to be key to combating and eradicating it, so it's also important to follow up on neighbouring municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u343	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u344	...with the affected area. And we wanted to know if he's doing something in this way and even with the transport. In short, what is being done to control this plague? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u345	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u346	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank the three political groups who presented this question for their interest in knowing what the performances are going on in Galicia through the Conseilerie do Medio Rurale, to combat the so-called potato couzza, potato flea or Guatemalan couza. And at the same time, to hold your hand, because this, being a problem of everyone, I'm sure that within the possibilities each group has, will contribute to making information disclosure as sensible as possible. In fact, it is discovered in Galicia at the end of 2015 that this plague and from there we began to take, by the Rural Council, as letters in the matter, and in this way what is done in November 2015 is to publish a resolution establishing mandatory and recommended measures for producers, stores and also merchants. It must be said that this plague has been established since 1999 on the islands. From that resolution, the steps would like to comment on: on the one hand, identification of potato growers in the demarcated area and inspection of private stores, i.e. in private houses that store their collection, of the affected area, to determine the existence and degree of allocation. That inspection, apart from doing it in private houses, is also done in the stores of the market within these demarcated areas as of November 2015. A record of existing productions, tuber immobilization and destruction of affected games is made. The movement of the tuber produced within the marked area is prohibited from going out. They form provincial service technicians and also agricultural offices. The owners of the parcels are informed, one by one, of the affected parcels of the demarcated areas, as well as of traders, entrepreneurs, distributors, warehousekeepers, entities and cooperatives concerned on measures taken in the demarcated and particularly surveillance zones, and of this there is a record. Unlike the fact that he didn't go out in the media all the time, that we now understand that it was necessary not only for the demarcated areas, but for the whole of Galicia, to know first-hand that it was the moth and that it was happening with the potato. A plan of action developed throughout 2016 was distributed in that area and information posters on the plague and its control and was set aside — from November 2015 onwards. This plan consisted of the placement of a trap net, about one by one kilometer, throughout the entire demarcated area of potato production, for the control of its distribution; it also placed a trap net of five by five kilometers throughout the surveillance area of the border of the demarcated zone; and there were traps placed in the main production areas of the rest of the autonomous community for the verification that the plague was found in those areas that we had demarcated and that it had no longer extended. During 2016, a periodic review of tracking traps was carried out every fifteen days in one meshes per one kilometer and every forty-five days in the rest. And the referral of the analysis in the case of suspicion and captures was made to the Galician Agrarian and Phytopathological Laboratory, dependent on the Rural Environmental Council, which is what you first discovered and who is doing the various investigations, and who is technically telling us how we should act. Because it's true that when such plagues happen, we all become technicians, and not all of us are technicians, so we try to give clear, transparent and powerful information to try to end and eradicate this plague as soon as possible. In the production plots continue to be made, and they were made during the year 2016, samples of control of the tubers to check whether there were symptoms or not of pest attacks. In the demarcated areas, visual controls were carried out during the harvest of 2016 to verify the presence or absence of damage that could be associated with this plague. In cases where damage was detected, it was collected for laboratory analysis. In the traps where captures were identified, a radius of about 200 meters was established, and one was identified by one of the plots of potato crops in that area, the owners were identified and were asked to indicate to us the warehouse of their own house where they had accumulated them for the whole year. We're talking about self-consumer storage, because the area we have demarcated is all self-consumption potatoes. They were handed to each of them a chicken coop and a trap was placed in each warehouse, always with their permission to detect the elbow. If the elbow was not detected at forty-five days, they would be allowed to use production within the demarcated area. If not, you'd immobilize them and ask them for permission to pick it up and take it to incineration destruction, and there, apart from that, they were compensated with 0.30 pounds per potato destroyed. In addition, as complementary measures, 1,200 chickens and pheromones were distributed among farmers in all affected areas. Inspections, sample collection, immobilised of infected material and destruction have been carried out through an authorized manager. We're talking about 2016. A total of 6,800 kilograms were destroyed. And together with this, first-hand information actions were carried out to farmers in the municipalities most affected by this harmful organism. Intensified, because they were distributed in 2015, but increased in 2016 the distribution of dyptics and information posters. At this point, we have demarcated the condition of the plague in 31 municipalities in Galicia, but first we have done all the work I just exposed to them. The municipalities are, in Coruña: Ares, Cabanas, The Chapel, Fene, Ferrol, Manion, Mugardos, Narón, Neda, Ortigueira, The Bridges of García Rodríguez, San Sadurniño and Valdovino. In the case of Lugo: Abadín, Alfoz, Barreiros, Burela, Cervo, Foz, O Vicedo, Lourenzá, Mondoñedo, Ourol, The Pastory, The Pontenonova, Ribadeo, Riotorto, Trabada, The Valadouro, Viveiro and Jupiter. In this sense, we must make it clear that in potato-producing areas, that is, these areas are demarcated, these areas are affected, and then we have the rest of Galicia, which looks with concern at what is happening. And here we have to say that in the area of maximum potato production — which is not only self-consumption now, which, of course, concerns us, but we are twice concerned about those areas that live from the potato, which are the area of Xinzo, Bergantinos and Terra Chá — they have established traps and as a result they are totally free from the plague, as well as other parts of Galicia by which other traps have been divided, a total of 87, and there is no kind of affection either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u347	Thank you. Replies, Mr. Rivas first.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u348	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, only if people feel like their problem will we begin to remedy it. I mean, you talked about the media only when the media jump into this problem, and the problem is the problem. You didn't — no, no, you didn't — give her how important she was and what she has. Traceability, of course, but they didn't use it, this was a coward. You don't tell me that the potato comes in because a tourist brings a bag of potatoes from Canary Islands as a souvenir, i.e., here was an import in every rule and the filters that had to work didn't work. What did they do this year and a half? Nothing, we take a bus, from 3 municipalities to 31 affected, and those who will come! You'll give me the means to serve. Wouldn't it be that there were several electoral processes in the middle and it wasn't right for you to skip this problem and, above all, to skip the ineffectiveness that you demonstrate in the face of these problems? I once again smelled like twelve-year-old plastics. Really, no alarmism of any kind, but here we are potato eaters and we are in danger. Yes, we are in danger, we are!, we are alarmists again!, thank you it's not the fault of the Bipartite, because we weren't in 2015, thank you it's not the Bipartite's fault, but here we are potato eaters. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you know that this plague cannot be easily reduced. You know that on earth it's hard to cut, and then what do we do? You'll have to make drastic measures that you didn't take with 3 municipalities affected, which was when you had to take them, and, above all, you had to give people information. People have an early kick, and they don't know anything, they don't know if they're going to lift it up, if they're not gonna lift it up; you're indecisive, why, are they waiting for Madrid to say bad news or bad news?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u349	Thank you, Mr. Ribas. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Gomez Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u350	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. I think it is important to stress, firstly, that it is important to address the solutions to these plagues without creating alarmism, ladies and gentlemen, unnecessary alarms. By the way, I would like to point out that it is not a public health problem, as some irresponsible mayor of the affected area has fallen, and not precisely the PP, and we must send a loud message of tranquility, essentially, to the sectors and districts involved in the extensive cultivation of the potato. And it's also very important to send this same message of tranquility to the markets where the excellent potatoes produced in all the provinces and corners of Galicia, from The Limitia, to the lands of Lemos, Bergantiños or even the Earth of Tea are marketed. When it's said that Junta is late, I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that the concept of late is not clear to you, or is not the same here in the Canary Islands, because the Government of the Canary Islands, before Paulino Rivero and now Fernando Clavijo, of which the Nationalists of the Canary Coalition and the Socialist Party have been part of, for more than eight years, trying fruitlessly to shorten the Pope's moth, eighteen years!, which they eat annually about 80% of the production of popes on the island of Tenerife, despite the thousands of tons withdrawn from consumption and the millions of compensations that, the reason of 25 cents the kilo, have paid them to the teen producers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Interruptions.]] We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the solution will not come from the Canary Government, where they rule in the coalition — as I have said — the same ones who accuse us of improvisation and delay, because they have been fighting this plague for 18 years, without, for now, positive results. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the potato's elbow is not a biblical curse as those of Tenerife may think. Against the foot of the potato can be fought seriously, strictly, as the counseling has done, to which we encourage us to continue working on the line that is being done, informing, training and strictly applying the measures necessary to listen to and tear it from the affected fields.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u351	Thank you, Mr Salgado. Replica, Mr. Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u352	Well, alarmism is going to be hard to stop, and it's not created here in this House. I don't know how or why alarmism has been in the media since the first day, and not with random notes, on the fifth page, or on the foot of the page, but on the whole plane and on the front page. That's clear. It must also be said that the plagues, and this will be no less, are not easy to control. But here we have a breakdown of the 2016 plan, where we are certainly told a catalogue of measures, of which we do not doubt. Well, if that was the case, they failed sharply, because they didn't stop or accumulate seed in stores, nor did they stop the neighbors or the producers in the affected area and they were able to carry forward their plantations. So this is the palpable and clear evidence that this plan somewhere, though right in some respects, failed sharply among many others. About the information, the content of the response of the neighbors of the various municipalities of the comarcas in the north of the Coruña and in the north of Lugo, it is clear that there is a tremendous demand for information. Therefore, the information given in that plan was not enough or it did not arrive properly. So you have to improve the channels, and not only information but awareness and what this means, because in order for one producer to break out of control we have the case lost or it's going to continue the plague, which is the same. In his reply, nothing focused on compensation, although -- I repeat -- we could see something in the press today, and we also know that the draft talks about them, but it can be quite different as they drive either side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u353	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u354	And we'd also like him to remember and put research into that plan for something as sensitive as this, and without which it is not possible to cut or control it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u355	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u356	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are ways and ways to act. Canarias has chosen one formula, has had the plague since 1999, and we have chosen another one, along with Asturias we go hand in hand. Let's go hand in hand with Asturias because this isn't a political problem, this is a problem of vegetable health, and it's a problem of economics, and it's a problem of tradition, of sowing self-consumption potatoes. Having said this, I insist again: I think we're going to be able if we all accept the decisions that put us on the table by the technicians. And that's more: if we all do so, and in addition to the different administrations, we can eradicate the potato plague in Galicia in a year. Otherwise, and simply with that alarmist concept and saying that nothing is done at all, putting the technicians, the research and the work on canvas, because we're going to end up like in the case of Canarias, where 100 percent of the plantations only collect 20%. The Ministry will publish the royal decree on the first fortnight of March, a work that we have done in full the Ministry and the Greek Community, but also with Asturias. It was Galicia and Asturias, besides those who requested that publication urgently, and tell me that this is how it is going to be done. In spite of this, both Asturias and Galicia published a resolution on February 14, in which, in addition to recommending that potatoes are not planted in demarcated areas, procedures are established for seed potatoes traders to make a sales register for farmers and for those producers that have already made plantations to identify the plots in which they have been sown. I mean, we're going to a shock plan, which has often even been exaggerated, but that we have to act vigorously, not aggressively, but vigorously, for the sake of Galicia and for the good of the rest of Spain, because, indeed, of course, it spreads very rapidly, because it's a plague. Another fundamental measure is the control of potato movements, so that both the exit, which is forbidden, and the potato entry in these areas, will be controlled. And it's also going to be done with the collaboration of the various state security forces and the Autonomous Community, that is, the Civil Guard and the Autonomic Police and the local police. And as an important measure, we will delineate an intensive range of surveillance outside the demarcated area and the border areas, where a dense trapping network will be established to identify possible elbows, capture and prevent them from infecting the different areas. We also increase the number of technicians. Technicians who are already in the field of inspection, control, personalised counselling with farmers in the demarcated areas and also with those areas that are completely potato producers. Another measure is the establishment of compensation aid lines, which are also regulated in Law 43/2002, of vegetable health, and which will be set out in the Royal Decree which, as I said, will be published on the first fortnight of March, and will be the same compensation for Galicia as for Asturias. Another average, apart from these, is to raise awareness. And within consciousness, it comes out in the media because there's continuous informational talks. First, they went with the municipalities, with all the mayors of the municipalities concerned; the posteriori, they went with the unions. And the different information talks and the conclusion of them were brought to the Agrarian Council. They also went with the IXP and all those municipalities that are asking for it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that the technicians and researchers of the Rural Council, the technicians and researchers of the Galician Union, along with other outsiders, are doing a very good job. And that job aside, we have to make it easier by putting everything on our side, with information, without alarming. In fact, this is a problem of vegetable health, only of vegetable health, it's not a problem of public health, because in some information it seems to be better off than it seems that there are public health problems. Not at all, not at all. As for the massive trap in the field, I have to give them data on what was done throughout 2016. And that's not what the elbow appears in three municipalities, and we already know that it's only in those three, no, but that we've had to do a thorough job over a year, which is how research is done. We'd like to know that the elbow suddenly because it's on this farm and this place. I think we have to be a little bit more sensible, that's not how we do it. And throughout 2016, in the demarcated areas, 266 traps were set up, in the surveillance zones 138 traps, in the rest of the territory — as I said we are also very concerned — 87 traps in the main potato production areas. And I keep insisting that these areas aren't for nothing infected, but we have to do our best to keep the potato from reaching these areas. And a total of 12,443 individuals have been captured. And I already give the data so exhaustive because those who say we let it run, that we have done absolutely nothing and that they have focused on, because there are very good technicians who focus on doing a job for everyone, who are officials of a house called Unity of Galicia and who work when the People's Party governs and who work when the People's Party does not rule, but who are genuine professionals. [[Applause]] By the German Government we continue to develop an intense information campaign, so that everything is absolutely clear. And here I also have to say that we all become specialists, that all of us suddenly understand absolutely everything, and sometimes that's not good. Believe me, I have no idea what the potato's elbow is, except what my advisors move me. Yes, but neither do you. I don't know why he laughs. [[Laughter]] I mean, we can't be constantly saying that we control all the issues; no, we have great technicians and advisers. [[Applause]] And to tell them that, as I told them earlier, there were these briefings with the various mayors, which I have to thank for the disclosure, and that they themselves are also doing among their neighbours. The Ministry, of course, is concerned. You're worried and last week you've been here with Ministry technicians, just like you were in Asturias, to articulate all the steps we have to take to an end, and that end is that it doesn't happen the same thing that's been happening in Canary Islands all these years. Today we are holding a meeting with the shopkeepers in Ferrol County, and on Saturday we will be with the Marine Lucense, and even so to strengthen the collaboration between administrations we have pending a meeting of technicians from the Conseilería with Fegamp. There is no other option but to be blunt, there is no other option but to be clear and transparent. And believe me: clarity, transparency and consistency is what the Galician Union is doing through the Rural Middle Council, because it's going to make them all much better. It's a problem for everyone and we hope to be able to cut it as soon as possible. And a message too, a message from those producers who are concerned about those messages that end up running towards distribution, which is the direct channel, and so that it does not affect our economy: this is a problem of vegetable health, it is not a problem of human health. Thank you very much and, above all, thank you all for that interest, which I hope will also be reflected at a later date with your contribution in each of the territories.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-02-22-DSPG018.u357	Thank you, Counselor. Finish the full here. Good afternoon, everyone.
