ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please go and take your seats. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. No inassistances have been justified. We therefore enter the agenda, with point one, of appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Rural Media Advisor, on his own request, to report the general lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u2	Mrs. Rural Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u3	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I compare today to account for the strategic lines that the Rural Middle Council is going to address throughout 2017, but not only throughout 2017, but will be a continuation along the legislation until 2020, it consonates government action, the administrative line of work and the government action that we are going to develop for the forest, livestock, agriculture and agri-food sectors. One of the primary objectives of the Galician Union — and so expressed by the President of the Union in all forums — is the establishment of the population in rural areas. Rural action needs to generate economic growth and improve quality of life, always taking into account environmental protection criteria. We must therefore deepen on policies that help rural development and enable it to fix, when it does not recover, population in it. It is therefore necessary to direct our work towards achieving the goal of improving living conditions in our rural areas, as a whole, to make it an opportunity for the future, both for those who want to establish themselves and for those who want to continue their lives in it. To achieve the premise of making rural environment an attractive place, we will combine all the Council's efforts in many of its areas of action. We need productions that allow us to earn a decent income, and at the same time preserve and preserve our tradition, which identifies us: self-consumption as an identity sign of all families who have their residence in rural areas. So, since the Rural Council, we have been working on policies that enable a diversified economy to be dynamized in rural areas, and in this sense we have set different duties, which we are already addressing, among them, the following: seeking territorial cohesion, maintaining population; supporting socio-economic activities in rural areas through exploitation of endogenous resources, agricultural and forestry; promoting new business models within rural areas; achieving balanced territorial development of rural economies and communities; and creating and preserving jobs. In view of this, we look forward to achieving positive results for rural people, for various reasons: on the one hand, we have very much to bear in mind the new demands generated by the evolution of consumption habits — fundamental — and we also have improvements and innovations in production methods; another opportunity we find in promoting short chains of distribution, local markets; in addition, the development of small-scale models, or their economic diversification, to achieve a complementary income; and finally, the opportunities that create the social demand for environmental protection, sustainable production and the promotion of the multifunctional role of agriculture and increase in the maintenance of biodiversity. Thus, through measures such as improving the rural road network, we aim to achieve greater cohesion in the territory, with the intention of facilitating accessibility to farms, farms and also among the different population centres, with the objective of intervening at 850 kilometres over the next two years. Last year we were present in over 800 performances, and they were over 800 kilometers. Fundamentally also in this sense is the restructuring of property, with the intention of making agricultural holdings more competitive, increasing their profitability, thanks to the cost cuts. We have as our goal not only to finish the 130 processes opened at the end of this legislation, but also to cover an average of 5,000 acres per year of new processes. We know that achieving that profitability that is being sought is not easy without a territorial basis, so to provide more land and farms, we have new instruments. The Agrarian Surface Restructuring Mechanism, the so-called Marcos Plan, is an axillary farm rental system that is not used. And the Uaxe is the Advisory Unit and Management of Agricultural Exploitations, which is the council I represent, as an intermediary between those who close their farms and those who search for a livelihood or greater dimension. The aim of this is to make 300 hectares of land in use this year. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also going to encourage the creation and development of small non-agricultural enterprises that dynamic rural economic fabric to create 270 investment projects in four years. And if we talk about rural development, we need to refer to the Leader programme, which seeks to encourage, through the 24 rural development groups formed and already underway, the participation and planning of local communities to develop and implement local development strategies based on the specific needs of each rural community. By 2020 we intend to finance around 1,500 projects, create 600 jobs and develop 11 cooperation projects. With the aim of creating 25 local markets also in the next four years, we will encourage cooperation between small producers, with a single intermediary between the producer and the consumer. Modernizing irrigation to increase the economic performance of farms is another of the challenges we face, which will undoubtedly also result in the cohesion of our territory. In the wake of innovation, the basic training for the proper development of rural Galicia will count on the future Agacal, which is already being drafted and will soon see its light, which will pilot the measures that are already being carried out, on the one hand, through the creation of 108 research groups, farmers, farmers, farmers, forestry, researchers, companies in the sector and cooperatives among others, and the execution of the same number of innovation projects. It will be a question of responding to specific solutions and problems, or opportunities in their respective sectors, by integrating producers into the agri-food chain to give them a new value for their production. On the other hand, and with help to promote around a hundred pilot projects in another four years, but we've already started this same year, to develop new products, new practices and new technologies, as well as with help for demonstration and information activities, forecasting about two thousand performances in four years, 500 in this year 2017. We will also promote exchange and visits to agricultural holdings in other countries of the European Union for the transfer of knowledge and good practice. In this sense, these are farms, but also agri-food industry, and in particular we intend to develop 350 agricultural Erasmus in the next four years. And with the views also set in 2020, because speaking of rural areas can be not just a year, or a few months, but in the long term, and therefore of legislation, is the formative programme that we are going to develop, oriented to farmers and newer forestry workers, in terms of continuing vocational training, as a complement to regulated training, bringing us closer to 50,000 participants, taking over 10,300 training days and setting up the more than 3,300 courses. Sustainable agriculture is another way of our actions, always with the ultimate aim of making rurals more attractive as a way of life, to promote the use of sustainable agricultural practices by farmers, through subscription of contracts or commitments of environmentally friendly practices, climate and agricultural exploitation. We will establish aid that compensates for the greatest demands that this entails. The goal that we set out in four years is that 500 dairy grazing contracts were signed, 1,600 for sustainable pasture management, and that were carried out over 74,100 hectares. In the same sense, and to compensate for the overcosts of adapting eco-friendly farming practices and methods, we will enable aid for the object of subscribing 230 contracts, with an affection of 8,000 hectares. Finally, and in order to avoid the depopulation and abandonment of rural areas with natural limitations and maintain sustainable agricultural activity, we will compensate for the additional costs caused by the disadvantages of the land itself, reaching more than 5,500 farms, 120,000 hectares, and, in other areas with special limitations, 4,000 farms and 118,000 hectares. Ladies and gentlemen, there can be no future in rural areas if this is not competitive. For this reason, in the agricultural field, we are going to boost the introduction of new technologies for the processing and marketing of products, to give value added to production and thus facilitate their access to markets and thus benefit the economic fabric of rural areas. The goal is to develop 655 transformation projects in four years. The closing of the application period for the 2017 call was 185 projects submitted, with an expected investment of 128 million euros. We will also strengthen the marketing of products, through the promotion of designations of origin and protected geographical indications. They're already consolidated, but we're pushing news, such as the IXP Cow and Bei of Galicia, Galician Pan, Curral Galo and others already published like the IXP Ribeiras do Morrazo. Basic for the future of Galicia's development through its rural area is undoubtedly the generational remittance. So, we're still looking for young people who want to settle down in rural Galician. After the historical results of 2016, when 618 young people decided to direct their professional life to rural areas, the goal we set ourselves is 2,200 farmers and young people working in rural areas until 2020. In addition, to improve the production conditions that achieve greater farm productivity, with its consequent improvement in profitability, we will support some 2,400 farms in four years. In 2016, we already supported 582, which were the approved applications and are now in progress. The last measure of this axis refers to the promotion of the creation of around a thousand companies for the development of small farms, to modernize them and thus see their orientation towards the market increased. These three measures, the incorporation of young people, the modernisation of farms and the promotion of small businesses, will be granted this year 2017 with 65 million euros, five million euros more than in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to reiterate on many occasions that we will only be able to be competitive. For this reason, we are going to promote the use of machinery collectively, harming together and addressing different agricultural and livestock work, as well as improving the effectiveness of productive processes and creating more sustainable productive units economically, socially and environmentally, reaching 4,000 farms in four years. It's 1,000 farms per year; 1,000 were already in 2016. We will also reach 4,000 farms, boosting the use of joint facilities and equipment, in association arrangements, giving them rational use of production factors, to achieve more efficient and sustainable farms, thus improving the living conditions of the population that is linked to these sectors. It is something that demands rural development and something that we have to push. We know that reducing the difference between agricultural and urban income is not an easy task, but achieving services for the rural population is essential for the consolidation of jobs in it and for people to decide and bet on rural life. I'm not just talking about equipping companies with technological instruments — which I also do — but I'm talking about conciliation as well. I'm talking about these daytime centers, children's homes, and places for leisure and tourist development that the rural people are going to have, which has been driving for many years, and in which the different councils are making a great effort, because we're talking about 97% of the territory, and also making it easier to install the population so that the aids that are given in the form of tax incentives or in the rehabilitation of housing are attractive. Because, in addition to the Council I say, the whole Government is working — as I have said — on the whole, cross-sectionally, on these issues, since we do not forget that, if we talk about rural areas and if we speak within the RDP, Galicia has determined on a rural basis 97.3% of our territory. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to all the measures included in the plan, we also work in other directions, which are no less important. Fundamental to ensuring a decent agricultural income are the aids of the CAP, which we manage with the greatest speed, for 33,000 farmers and yellow farmers, who are the beneficiaries of those aids from the CAP. On the one hand, we anticipate in November € 102.7 million of the 2016-2017 CAP, in the forefront of history, about 26,000 beneficiaries; and on the other hand, we have done the duties and published the aids of the new CAP 2017-2018 on the first day set by the regulations, on February 1st last. Of great importance, including in order, was the achievement of the Ministry's favourable report to change the verification period for CAP crops, to encourage holdings of more than 10 hectares, which will enable them to save on production costs and thus reduce dependence on external inputs and increase their profit margin. And the decisive one will undoubtedly be the work that has already begun to address the postPAC 2020 period. In this sense, on 27 and 28 March, a conference will be held in Madrid at the highest level, where we will participate, in addition to all the autonomous communities, representatives of the European Commission — headed by Commissioner Hogan — representatives of the Ministry — with the same minister at the front — as agricultural organisations and representatives of other European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the ramparts of our productions, both agricultural and forestry, is its quality, so it is essential to ensure that this quality is valued with a great effort within the health field, both animal and vegetable health. Thus, in terms of animal health and as policy projects of interest for this year, we have planned, on the one hand, the development of a new standard that regulates Galician health defence associations, as an element to promote the integration of farms in these entities, as well as their strengthening. As a complement to the above, the development of a standard that creates the official certification of farms free of bovine viral diarrhea, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis and for tuberculosis, where we would be pioneers in the state. I must also point out that we are about to be officially declared a region free of bovine brucellosis — we are of sheep brucellosis — and they have already begun to calculate the deadlines for being officially declared free of bovine tuberculosis; that is, we are pioneers at the national level within what is animal health. In addition, in the area of animal health, we work in the Vespa Vespa Programme and continue to promote adherence to the program of collaborators councils. A key part in the control of health and agricultural production are official plant health programmes: hygiene, primary agricultural production, control of plant protection products, control of plant protection equipment and, in general, of all derivatives of the directives on sustainable uses and the package of hygiene. It is appropriate to make reference here, ladies and gentlemen, of course, to what comes out every day in the media, which is the backbone of the potato, to which we are dedicating all our efforts with the intention of eradicating it from Galicia as soon as possible; an ambitious goal for which there is no other option than to apply blunt measures. It is a goal where we must appeal to the solidarity of each and every one of the administrations, but also to each and every one of the citizens. I would like to recall that the areas of greater production — Limia, Bergantinos and Terra Chá — are free of the plague, and it is our responsibility to continue to stand, if it is true that, if we cannot produce potatoes in areas of self-consumer consumption, a tradition, because it is also producing their respective complaints, if we well want to be blunt in this sense and give all the first-hand information with an end, and that end is that we do not have the same as in other autonomous communities. To also point out that in no case is this a public health problem, so I would like to transfer a message of tranquility again in this sense. It's a message of tranquillity in the sense that, putting everyone on the table — from technicians, going through the Town Councils and comprehensive controls — we're going to be able to eradicate it soon. Vegetal health is essential both in the forest and in the vegetable field. And so in this matter and in the biological struggle we address multiple actions, of which we only often know through the media, but it's true that we all know each and every one of us. Against the eucalyptus goniper, the realization of a permanent inventory of 174 sample plots for the study of this defoliator and its natural parasite, the Anaphes nitens. Here's a collaboration that's public-private. Also the Biological Fight Program for the control of the chestnut hemp, through inoculation of hypovirulent strains, which in 2016 reached the figure of 16,034. We nearly tripled by 11 inoculations since 2011, and planned to reach this year 26,000 more. The plan of action against pine nematode has as its main actions detection, the elimination of symptomatic trees in border areas with Portugal and the apeo actions, cutting and removing the feet of sensitive conifers who are weakened with the dry cup and drying completely or partially in the same area so that there are no greater conditions. We also fought against the chestnut pineapple, a recent plague, since it was last year the first in which positives were confirmed in Galicia. We will act mainly with loose adult individuals, from Torymus, and with gala collection. With regard to the procession and towards this year, given its low impact, it will arrive with the placement of traps and there will be no new treatment. Obviously, there are other insects that can become pests at a particular time and depending on many areas, and within them also time itself, and it is necessary to control its evolution, so we also work in this direction. So, for the same reason, we are always alert to the possible occurrence of some disease that advises the realization of some type of follow-up or special phytosanitary measures. And in that sense, we have to thank the technicians who have the Council of the Rural Environment, who make daily efforts towards the achievement of eradicating the existing ones and who do not extend the ones that are given to us. Following the forest area, remember that today are special days and therefore it is also within the forest area, because the International Mountain Day is celebrated, or, in other areas, the World Forest Day. We intend to develop one hundred and fifty projects through aids for wood use as raw material or energy source that corresponds to its first treatment and also invest in mobile wood processing equipment and installations that are designed to be able to move around where production is. Knowing what our orography is like, we have to keep moving forward and be able to move the machine to the place where we have to make the relevant cuts and, in fact, to be, there too, its transformation. And we just pushed — and, moreover, we made it public — the green flag of our mountains. This is only to enhance the work of those mountain communities, the work of those owners at the particular level, the work of the administrations as well, who are able to make stable mountains, economically sustainable, environmentally sustainable, compatible with forest use, and also land use. And I would invite them, for example, to approach the Cedeira and there they would check first-hand the orderlys that are the mountains and that are able to create cattle SAT, to be compatible with that cattle, to be the wildlife too, and to be more productive than the different species that are ordered in them. The social, economic, environmental, ecological, ecological and cultural functions of our mountains need, for their sustainable management and for their improvement and conservation, of genetic resources and for the forest reproductive materials of species and hybrids used in forestry to be of high quality, as well as appropriate to the conditions of the environment in which they are used. In this sense, the Rural Media Council works, among others, in the following fields: plantations of clones or selected families isolated enough to avoid pollination reduction, from external sources managed for the production of crops of common, abundant and easy to collect, which we have in seeds and subsequently move to the nursery to have first quality plant. The management of the conservation of the forest genetic resources of the own nursery of the Administration (the farm of Falmega, in the Coruña; the nursery of San Brexo, in Lugo; and the nursery of the Chaira, in Ourense), carrying out the own work of maintenance of the nursery and the conservation of the existing genetic resources in them, as well as of the fields of plants mother of hybrid chestnuts existing in each of these nursery, and which are registered in the Galego Register of Plant Fields mother of Galicia. It occurs with the chestnut, it occurs with oak, it also occurs with Pinus pinester; and in addition in the collection of seed, processed and marketed of forest seed, in order to meet the existing demands of plant production in the forest sector. And, following the forest area, I have to finish my intervention by talking about the Galician Forest Plan, reviewed after twenty-five years of vigil, starting with the idea that it must be a consensus plan with all forest agents and with an important participation of society. It began in 2015 with a very participatory process within the Galician Forest Council, with the aim of starting guidelines for the review of the Galician Forest Plan prepared by members of the Galician Forest Council. And the members of the Galician Forest Council are the entire value chain of our mountains, from the owners, through transformation. The previous diagnostic phase consists of the following documents — this is made, of course, already —: the historical transformation of the forest landscape of Galicia; the forest scenario of Galicia; the natural setting of the Galician mountain; the scenario of natural and environmental risks in the Galician mountain; the distribution, regime and structure of the forest property of Galicia; the socio-economic scenario of the mountain and the forest sector of Galicia; and the analysis of the degree of development and compliance of the monitoring plan. The review process includes three procedures: the environment, the territorial and the forest, as well as its formulation and subsequent approval. On June 30, 2017, a first review document of the Forest Plan, evaluated by the Forest Council, will be closed and will, after the Board's report, initiate its public information process. Another great line of work in the forest field is the Management Plan for large areas of extensive pasture. There are different greenhouses in Galicia that host an important large glove hut in extensive regimes, formed in different proportions by cattle heads and equine in the vast majority. In many of these areas there is a series of cases that need to be solved and that in different degrees includes problems of damage to livestock to agricultural holdings, accidents even with vehicles on different roads of the terrestrial road network, forest fires and problems between the owners of the pasture land and the owners of the livestock, or even conflicts of use between cattle and tree. In view of this situation, the Rural Environment Council — and by 2020, but already beginning to work — formulated territorial management of extensive pasture in large greenhouse areas, including several different municipalities. The working methodology includes a first phase of locating grassland, as well as identifying existing gander huts, identifying possible conflicts in the territory, defining areas of pasture to be structured, and the necessary infrastructure. These infrastructures include captive closures with necessary Canadian steps, the creation of livestock management sleeves, the creation of food and drinkers and storage areas, and the deployment of pasta in appropriate areas and the improvement of existing pastures. Execution of the plan has already begun in Barbados. Between 2017 – which we are in progress – and the first half of 2018 is planned to carry out the prior phase of agreements, the identification of necessary actions and the drafting of work projects in the following areas: in the case of Pontevedra, in Castroverde, The Galineiro, the Testier and the Swede; in Ourense, in the Central Macizo, the Serra do Leboreiro, the Serra do Jurés, the Serra de San Mamede, the Serra da Queixa and the Serra de la Penas Libres; and we will continue with different actions in the different Lurenese saws. Another line of work is designed to enhance one of the most modern forest productions, such as chestnut. The organisation, operation and composition of the Chestnut Table will be regulated by a command. Creation took itself to the Forest Council and went ahead. The creation of this, which is sectoral, pursuant to Article 101 of the Galician Mountain Law, has been considered necessary given the importance of both the formation of chestnuts and the production of chestnuts within the Greek forest sector and, of course, the economy of it. It is important to note that Galicia is the main autonomous community in the production and export of chestnuts. In the last campaign, production data exceeded twenty million kilograms, which translate into more than thirty million euros paid to producers and generate more than seventy million euros in marketing, once transformed. In addition to this enormous productive importance, there are, on the other hand, ecological, environmental and cultural values that contribute to our society the wooded formations of this species. The shipbuilder occupies an area of 12,500 hectares in pure masses, or secondary in mixed formation, approaching an area of 46,455 hectares, according to data from the latest National Forest Inventory. In addition, the area of productive fruit bumps amounts to 38,000 hectares. In view of the great ecological and economic importance of the Welsh trout, a sectoral table such as the Castagna Bureau can contribute very positively to the promotion, promotion and improvement of these forest products. I therefore consider it necessary, and it has also been considered within the Forest Council, to create this collective body of sectoral representation, in order to fulfil the above objectives. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, in the area of forest fire defence we are developing with the municipalities an agreed action plan, as is structured in the conventions of the twenty-four GHGs: seven in the province of Coruña, seven in Lugo, six in Ourense and four in Pontevedra, to which we have reached about four million euros since the Middle Rural Council. This is a three-year plan that includes the Vice-Presidentship of the Union, the Fegamp and the Deputies. Actions include various preventive actions and participation in the extinction of forest fires all year round. On the other hand, we have agreements with the municipalities for preventive actions and the extinction of forest fires, which are instrumentalized through three-line triennial agreements: the summer brigades for prevention and extinction, the roses on the margins of the forest runways and the extinction trucks during the summer. A total of 271 conventions are in force. In addition to the 271 brigades for prevention and extinction, 97 fire-fighting motorcycles are included and 35,000 kilometres of margin of exposed runways are carried out. With regard to the rural council's own staff, 621 non-continuous nine-month fixed-term workers were incorporated into the active service on 1 March before spring, according to programming and planning needs, depending on climate conditions. And we have just signed an agreement between environmental, education and rural councils to facilitate the access of different personnel to the scale of technical agents in environmental management. Thus, the Galician Union seeks that both environmental and forestry optional agents can access this new scale, which is covered by Law 2/2015, of Galician public employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u4	Thank you, Counselor. We turn around the parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Counsellor, hearing your words come into an existential doubt: what do I do at the BNG? My place should be at the PP, especially at the PP of the Counsellor, who has just outlined here... or do you now use the economic and political concepts that nationalism has rallied and started to put into practice for three and a half years, and it continues to process? You intend to make a speech of nationalist opposition, our speech, and sink into silence. Look, yesterday, by chance, going to a wonderful act of Down syndrome I found in Galicia Square a neighbor of the parish of Buazo, a 40-year-old neighbor, four daughters; the husband works in what he can, and she had a farm, and I said, "What are you doing here?" He was wearing a wheelchair with an old person. And he said to me, 17 cents a litre of milk doesn't keep an exploitation, and I'm taking care of this lady, and what falls. This is reality, I can give you names; it's not a rhetorical figure, it's real. Look, you've come this way out of the panic of the potato. This country is panicking right now. It's the story of an fairness between the fear of facing you with a really serious problem because it's who we are, potato eaters, and the disgust and incompetence for being who you are, nothing serious when taking government action when the problems are really serious. This is a matter of first order of vegetable health, which brings together a threat of extinction to a population sector that is economically dependent on the cultivation and marketing of this tuber; it also threatens the families of the Greeks and Greeks that we cultivate for self-consumption; and it creates a growing social alarm due to the lack of seriousness of the incompetent authorities, you in particular. Look, a bit of a story. It is detected in August 2015 in three municipalities in the north of the country. Silence and emptiness; no preparations, no extraordinary measures that really free and control the extent of the plague. Three municipalities alone, you in the cloud. Fear of electoral periods, induced silence, alarm through newspapers, and the reality is that it beats the country — excuse me — in sales. And now it's when Mr. President had to give his face and offer an explanation to the country, exercise his role; he's missing, he doesn't give any signs of apparent life, and you, Counselor, more than that. You know, they put a hand in the mouth of the wolf, the technicians, and they don't assume any political responsibility. Those technicians who are scoring ten over ten, because they're attending the assemblies, sticking their chests to the historical discovery of the goat and the frustration of neighbors and producers in general, and you're missing, the politicians. Of the potato eaters, we, a million long Greeks don't buy potatoes, we don't need technical explanations, we need confidence and we need to see that measurements are taken and that goes seriously. The cultivation of potatoes, like self-consumption, is not a tradition as you just said; it's not worked by traditions, Counselor, it's a necessity and an economic supplement. They proposed to the municipalities to make a flock by organizing the neighbors of the municipalities affected for the how, where and when they would collect the potatoes. What else? They pull balloons out, see if the responsibility again becomes from the Town Councils and it's not from you. People are waiting for a diaphragm and understandable explanation of what to do, and there wasn't. When half a million euros a month goes up to pensioners, it is good that they hurry to send us an explanatory letter, perfectly studied, to convince us of the great work being done in raising our purchasing level! But for this matter they dissipate about and seal it. Are you going to pay off the loss? Or will there be, in any case, aid to compensate around 100 euros per family and year that you can calculate the loss for not being able to plant in the municipalities concerned? Many families will be able to assume this cost, but for others it will be a stick above the poles of the crisis. This won't be the fault of the Bipartite, will it? You have an obligation to give true information at all times, the population must perceive that the Administration is on your side. Declared the alarm via the media, it is up to the Administration to set guidelines, take the initiative to return lost trust, in fact — I repeat — with facts, and there is no facts. Media have, there's political will, there's political capacity? I don't think so. Tell us why it took them so long, why they waited for Madrid's decree. They're not nobody without their guidelines; they're autonomous; they're not autonomous. Potatoes are almost nothing; early ones, where are you going? Now the tardiness is paid, and submission to the dictates of Madrid too. Who's gonna face it when they get them up in the affected areas, mayors? Was it necessary to get to this? Why didn't they react earlier? It's not about tavern politics, we're talking about serious government, and believe me: until now they've been missing year and half. Of course, this incomprehensible expectation, this longing, is partly the fruit of the abandonment to which the rural environment undergoes year after year; now it is when they realize the delight and the lack of progressive attention of public agricultural research. Where are you going, if you're 50% of your chances? And where are they? Now we realize the old decommissioning of agricultural offices and their terrible consequences, because now is the time when those agents could act with people. Let's privatize. The private counsel and counsel, but behind the council comes a certain product that is sold to us in return. Aren't you going to tell us anything about the progressive forestry of land? Alice's speech in the country of wonders did not speak of this. I know they're against the eucalyptus, and so many times they can even believe it. But the reality that comes together is a collapse of the market, and you know it well, because we've been up for about ten years impunity for nites planting, at a rate of 12,000 acres per year in the last eight or nine years. That's why so many surprises together. You guys now start bubbling up the mountains in common, but until now they've been treated with sticks, they've surrounded them. An extension of Ence, the derogation from the Biomass Plant Regulation Decree, the installation of the Teixeiro macroplant, where are we going? Because everything is indicating that we walk to an immense mass of eucalyptus desert, with a pool here and another there to carry the fire helicopters. I don't know if I won't have to change and I'll have to go and think about buying a good stove of wood, because it's going to be the eucalyptus nites a little less than five euros tons in a little while. As you know, the area planned for the eucalyptus in the Galician Forest Plan was, and is, 245,000 hectares. According to the National Forest Inventory, they've been over 20 years ago. By then we were on the 400.00 acres. I don't even talk to him today. When will the agrarian foresting be stopped? When are the forests recovered unpunished all these years? When is the territory really going to be sorted out? When are we going to exploit rationally and wisely the potential of our soil? When are we going to bet on a multifunctional pile that serves for today and last-morrow? If all sensible reports on the future of the dairy sector point to the need for a territorial base to point to milk production, from a system dependent on inputs to a production based on its own, and blessed, territory, sustainable and consistent with the common sense, how long will the measures necessary for real mobility of the land that provides the livestock with greater profitability per litre of milk or per kilogram of meat produced? When will the necessary political measures be put in place to take advantage of the own resources materialized on those thousands of hectares of high agricultural potential that are abandoned? By the way, do you know anything about the nearly 7,000 hectares of top-quality land threatened in the municipalities of Oroso, Orders, Mesia and Frades for future mining? It's six thousand seven hundred and peak acres of land in which the amount of public money has been invested by ordering it, making partial concentrations, etc. Demography: where there were 100 inhabitants twenty-five years ago, today we are only 10. This is a reality. And don't tell me about Melide, because it's the same reality. That's the reality of a medium that every day loses population, where tantors are the most promising industry and where loneliness is not a feeling, it's a reality. Talk to me about increasing milk production and we'll talk to you about raising cows and decreasing farms. The viability is not so much in the number of heads and liters produced as in production costs or profit margin. Land abandoned or forested with eucalyptus: throw the blame on the atomization of property and we'll talk to it about political cowardice, lack of project, vision of the future, of faith, of collective hope. This is our speech, that's our project: a rural population, diverse, sustainable, endogenous. Do you know what it is to feel part of a people who has everything to compete and work on a future of wealth? Those people that the lords had on their day of ignorant and brute have already shown in the eighty-ninth of what they were capable of. They did it without the trust of the politicians of turn, former masters, consolidaters of late frankism. Now we're waiting for the chance you'll have to come. No people can thus be punished with such hardness, with that contempt, so long after. And believe me, the future is about to be done and it's ours, because hope is ours, of those we believe in the right to be first citizens in a country, in this country, of first. And it'll have to be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u6	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u7	President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. I too, like the previous appearance, believe that, if the lady councillor's story were to stick to 100 percent to reality, our villages would be filled with people. And that's not the reality, rather the opposite. Let's start with the livestock sector. It ended in 2016 with 8,500 — or one more — farms, which means the loss of nearly 1,100 farms in the last two years, with a constant rate of closure. And, of course, this data, which is objective, is not the best news on the health of the livestock sector. This is a fact that clearly reflects the crisis in the sector. Everything you say in the other direction is floral games, I don't reach reality. And we have to talk about several factors that compete in this crisis. At the price of milk, despite the slight rise in breath, today there are still 25% of farms under 27 cents; and some — as the previous comparative said — well below this figure. And anyway, prices are much below the European price index. And not only that, but there are 2.5 cents below the Spanish average — if you don't cheat on statistics, obviously; if you pull out Galicia, you give that amount. But not only is one of the crucial elements of the dairy agreement, as is the sustainable price — under which it is not feasible to maintain activity, under this price sustainability, our owners take, close and go, change activity—but it is also failing another important piar of the milk agreement: the identification of milk, its origin, and dairy derivatives. There are advances, of course, in the identification of liquid milk, but liquid milk represents only 12% of this country's imports into the commercial balance. Among the remaining 88% is milk powder and derivatives, derived as cheese, yogurt and hospitality products. And this one, the identification in this important aspect is that the dairy derivatives are still in diapers. And so you can't protect and boost your own production. It's a very important tool and it's -- I repeat it -- in cloths. Another of the major problems that goes through the growing industry in particular and the primary sector in general is the lack of a superficial base, which has already been mentioned here, by the way. And we want to make a good claim that the 130 open concentrations will be finished in this legislation, we want to believe it. We'll check it out in three years. But we all know that the concentration program is not enough, besides being slow, costly and not fit into the parameters of that sustainability in the rural world that today must be the north of any concentration or similar action. That's why it's necessary to dynamize and give life to a legal instrument, the only one that has the government at its disposal, which is the Land Bank. But a budget allocation of EUR 80,000 is a statement of intent of the low importance that the Government gives to this mechanism so necessary to increase the territorial base of the farms that call for the land and more land, surface base to be able to compete, in order to produce, without which it is not possible. They assume a lot of the new incorporations, 618 in 2016, and it's not at all. We're good at it, we think it's important. But, by analyzing it for the kid, not a few of the new incorporations are just changes in title. That's not why you disqualify the program, which goes in the right direction, but needs improvements. Like, for example, they assume a lot of the 40,000 euros on average that they give each new addition, but nothing says that Fairy comes in the bag in the first year with a 30% tax. Well, you'd have to share that bill that you want to make Fairy, that you'll do the first year. They also don't say anything about the incoherence of approving new incorporations and denying them the improvement plan, and there's something like that. That doesn't make any sense, Counselor. It's true that 470 farm improvement plans have been approved, it's very important. But it's no less true that more than 500 files have been denied, mainly due to a lack of budget. Unbelievable for lack of budget! How is it possible to refuse such a number of files when the budget is exhausted and at the same time leave 116 million euros of European funds unspent? We know you have this year to spend them and the next one too. But that's called mismanagement. We must not forget that in the previous RDP 2007-2013, dozens of millions have been spent, and that's what they call mismanagement. Since it's the worst management it takes one year to pass files, and that's on the agenda, and we all know it and it's in the DOG, it's not an invention. And fatal management is to have enough budget and it takes an eternity to pay compensation for the wolf. An eternity for the gain is over a year, and that happens, it's happening. Not to mention the headphoned Fogga, who in the previous campaign has paid money and files. Presumably good managers, but the facts don't confirm it. And here we're not talking about ideology or alternative projects, we're talking about pure and hard management, bureaucracy. And it's not permissible, you can't go ahead with this policy of leaving papers, files, processing, etc. And speaking of country, planning and management, of course, it's urgent to launch Galicia's forest future with a new plan, it's very important. But what's not from receipt is walking through branches with patches in the form of decrees, like the famous draft that threatens to divide the country with a border line. And we know that borders separate, divide, segregate, cause comparative harm. They want to focus on where the problem with eucalyptus is minimal, about 5,000 hectares, diverting attention from where the problem really exists, which is in the coastal Galicia, in the Atlantic Galicia, in the Cantabrian Galicia, where the monoculture advances in geometric progression by devouring forest surface and agrarian lands. That's reality, it's incomprehensible, and also that there's nothing to do to cut off that eucalyptus incision dynamics and other trees in the fields of cultivation. About 30,000 acres of land occupied by the eucalyptus. And in view of this unmeasured monoculture, what are you doing? Unfortunately, look elsewhere, when it is strictly forbidden to plant on these land land. There's nothing left but wanting to take the new forest plan, which is the document that must respond to the problems of forest land use planning, in search of a sustainable and multifunctional model. We're not going to do much fine-tuning with the potato elbow problem, the media are already in charge. But we're still careful how the process develops. Now it's time for the Administration to do its job, do its homework. For now, all the reasons and explanations that can give us about the fact by the Government are summarized in the step from 3 to 31 municipalities affected. And by the time you're looking at the problem, you have to be destroying -- it looks like -- 50 tons of potatoes and 3,000 affected farms, when you shouldn't have let a single potato grow. That's what we mean by the delay in the performance. We hope that duties will be done well, but we do not understand how they denied the Socialist Group's proposal that producers' representatives be part of the follow-up committee. Look at them who want to cover something up, we don't know. We do not understand this position nor do we want to include another proposal of ours, such as the budget for research. It also happened to us with the minced ancespa, they refuse to spend money on research, but a country that doesn't investigate, that doesn't allocate resources for research, is a country condemned to go to the bluff, to the gossip of the others. We do not want to pass the opportunity to refer to the wild fauna, particularly the boar. At least, it is striking that in 2016, at the full stage of the election, they enabled a period of claims for damage to the boar after it was closed for years. And October 10, 2016, they closed the claim collection again. We hope they don't forget that the boars in this country didn't accommodate any thermal vacation plans, they're still here like the previous year, ready to act again. We don't want to think that this year without elections there will be no compensation or measures to take against this threat from the rural world. There'd be a lot to talk about but we don't have room. I'm finished with a brushstroke of what it means to live in the countryside, of those measures that so much—and which are good— of zero taxation in the countryside, of aids to buy new houses, of discounts in some legal act-- well, okay, all that's fine, but I'm sorry to tell you that those measures are being eclipsed by the catastrophe that we're suffering from in the countryside. I know you don't have skills, I know you don't have skills either, but you don't have skills, you know, you don't have skills, you know, you don't have skills, but the government's friend of Rajoy's, and something would have to do that way. The tax pressure is so strong that the incentives are completely diluted. New valuations have been put together by increasing the multiplier coefficient at the municipal level, collecting delays, and even paying for discharge. I mean, put the messenger in the house, feed him and lend him the bed: a legal robbery in every rule. And the difference with the eucalyptus on land...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u9	...here they did detect and located up to the dog's cassettes. We don't know if this is going to be the rural legislation, but what we know and we're sure this is the rural disaster legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u10	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u11	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. High degree of aging; abandonment and desertification of virtually all rural areas of Galicia; destructuring of the territory; high risk of large forest fires; loss of biological diversity; loss of social, economic and cultural dynamism in the areas affected by all these phenomena, which is 100 percent of the rural region: that is the reality of the rural we have today in this country, and not that you, Counsellor, come here to sell us. But this reality responds to the application of the policies of the People's Party over the past few years, which aim to eliminate the services and rights of rural populations: suppression of schools -- we see it --; suppression of property registers; suppression of judges; mobility; health infrastructures; reconciliations; elimination of dependency policy etc.; privatization of the management of our neighbouring mountains for the benefit of private companies, together with the promotion and implementation of the fast-growing forest monoculture; energy crops; megaminary; industry installation, etc. Right now, right now — the comrade Mini has just named him — you passed over the elbow plague, and we take three years with the elbow pest. You could write the book about the elbow plague or how to rule the improvisation blow by your advisor. From the first detection of positives, the advance of the plague was intense, as it was predictable. Because of this, the board ordered Tragsa — which, by the way, cost us 2 million euros for six months — to deal with pest control, and we see again that it was not effective at all. This order consisted of a monitoring, placement of trappings for the capture of elbows and transfer of samples to the laboratory; gathering of affected potato and transfer to the authorized dump. I refer to Tragsa so that we all can see that the money that PP is planning and the human resources of plant health are going again, again, to companies and not to the public research centres we have in our country. Those resources that you leave are clearly insufficient, given the relevance of security in plant health. There are plagues like the trioza in citrus, the xyllella in the olive tree and the vineyard, the potato's elbow, the chestnut bird, which, either you want to lie to us here, or you're lying to them. We haven't been here last year, we've been with her since 2014. Plus, you guys in 2015 have already distributed some triptych to the municipalities. All these plagues can derail crops of great economic interest. For better management of demarcated areas, and seeing the dispersion of positives that have been detected so far, a demarcated network is established that affects the entire municipality. Maybe 10 percent of the county is affected, but no, we've taken the whole ban. Trap networks are placed in the monitoring area, in the affected areas as well, mapping data information, visual inspection of plots, referral of samples to the laboratory, etc. Some potatoes of the farms affected by controlled landfills are withdrawn in eradication. Information talks — few — in different municipalities. It informs merchants, shopkeepers and distributors a lot. There is little more to be handed over to farmers and farmers and traps are distributed on the farms affected for their eradication. They're taking out decrees, they're expanding the demarcated zone to 31; today, unfortunately, I think it's already 32, I think there's already another council affected. They intensify the dissemination and information to the sector. What did they have to do? Why didn't the Galician Board and its council not issue a Greek decree in October or November banning planting, and we would withhold expenses of fertilizers, seed costs and jobs that we could save our farmers and farmers? Supply stores and cooperatives would not be able to collect inputs for planting or seed, preventing these new plantations that we now have to start. Are you going to compensate the warehousekeepers? You created insecurity, as the comrades said, and a lot of confusion. The resolution you drew before the Royal Decree of the Ministry came out was very confusing and very warm, to download everything in the ministry. This is a decree of Madrid that we now have to abide by. That's a lie. We have sufficient competences in vegetable health to prohibit the planting of potatoes in these three municipalities initially affected. The action plan that is leading Tragsa is good, it is developing with competence and rigour, yes, but it is insufficient. What about the second stage of the plan? To control the plague, we need collaboration with the municipalities and agricultural offices — which are, by the way, totally dismantled today — with the police, with distributors, etc. Is there any of this? You don't know anything. We have to be in the field, and that's where this council is right now isn't even waiting. Vegetal defense associations have no support of any kind, they're dismantled, and they're a fundamental tool to contain the plague. Last year there was only one grant in Lugo province. Aid lines of €250,000 in compensation; 0.30 per kilogram for those already stored in storage; 0.70 for the seed and about €4,000 per hectare collected. 250,000 euros for the whole of Galicia won't give even 10% of the people who are going to be affected. Where are the aids for lossful profit reflected? Where are the aids for self-consumption reflected, for all families that we're not going to resist because we're not going to be able to plant potatoes? We need to strengthen the plant health service. We're in a crisis very similar to when it was for crazy cows, where vets' supplies were substantially increased. Why isn't that being done right now, with the potato's elbow? Why is there no information at all on the Galician Joint's website about the potato leg today? Do you shame the management they've been doing for these two years? Finally, Counsellor, 5% more than in 2016 was the summary of the budgets you drew this year 2017. You intend to boast of the legislation of the rural environment, when the Directorate-General for Forest Management and Protection will manage one out of three euros of what you will have. Given these figures and their forestry strategy, it is not risky to underline that for the Galician Union the so-called fire industry today has more relevance than other agricultural and food industries. The populist discourse of the People's Party on its priority of the agricultural sector is again evidenced. The Galician Union has the Greek agricultural sector, and specifically the Greek farmers and farmers, totally abandoned for their luck. They cut into training, qualification and research, modernization and improvement of production. We have seen the contempt of this council in that sense, especially in the bodies that depend on its advice as can be the training centres of Gusamo, Mabegondo, Monforte, etc., but we see how two weeks ago you pull out a grant line of EUR 350,000 to be the private companies that give this training, while our own centers lack means, lack of staff and lack of support from the Galician Union. You want farmers and farmers who don't associate with each other or cooperate with each other. They have again reduced the game that has existed since the year 2016. There is a desire to provide public support to Greek farmers and farmers for better use of agricultural resources, better productivity and more comfortable work. The speech of productivity improvement was undressed in its intervention in plant welfare and health, which is fundamental to the improvement of productivity. Approximately 74 million euros in 2009, now have just about 49 million euros for this year 2017. The same applies to the implementation of agricultural productive systems, quality of food production, etc., the figures show the speeches. The adjustments in the expenditure of the Galician Union have in the Greek farmers and farmers their greatest damages. Today, the agricultural policy needs a Greek negotiating framework that will enable us to reach agreements between the parties and that it aims to achieve perceived prices by the sector that covers production costs, not the policies that you are reflecting on your budgets. An agricultural policy needs to enhance the closure of productive cycles, preventing our productions from emigration without generating added value in the country. An agribusiness policy needs to promote and encourage short routes of marketing, distribution and consumption as a way to guarantee quality products, while contributing to the necessary energy saving. You need to foster the social economy; to re-engineer cooperativeism and agricultural association; to encourage the establishment of cooperatives for the Community's exploitation of the land; to plan for the management of land use and for the guidance of crops, with the objective of mobilising agricultural land and the proper use of the forage area. We need measures to combat forest fires, which not only burn the mountain, burn the territory, the surface, crops, landscape, biodiversity, fauna, flora, housing, etc. So this is why we understand it's a matter of country. The prevention of forest fires has to be done during the year, and not just during the summer, as they're doing again and again from their advice. We understand the concept of prevention in its just term, that is, the value of our mountains in a multifunctional and sustainable way. You're not betting on the involvement of the people holding the land in the value of the mountains in common hand, as long as you here say yes. The Socialist Party colleague said he seems to be starting to notice something in the last two months, but for years and years it's been a field that you haven't touched at all. These must be the main beneficiaries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u13	...—ending, Mr President—of these aids, not the private forest companies or the sophistication that you yourself have created. The fight against forest fire, in its phase of extinction, must be done from the point of view that it must be a public service carried out with professional criteria, not with a policy made by and for the private and friendly companies of the People's Party. Today, the DOG — and with this overdue — published an announcement of the 450,000 euro bidding process for announcements of the forest fire campaign. This is the only policy you have against the fire, while this week we see the province of Ourense, both in the Juries and in the Central Macizo, the fires have arrived and we're still in March. See what they do when the month of June comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u14	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u15	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my intervention — as it could not be otherwise — by congratulating the advisor for her presentation, in which she described the strategic lines of the Rural Council, which aim to achieve a rural that becomes an opportunity for the future, both for those who want to establish themselves and for those who want to continue living in it. Ladies and gentlemen, strategic lines. We came here to talk about a project, and about a rural project. I was glad, in that sense, when Mr Rivas — in the first part of his intervention — pointed out that it was the project of the Galician Nationalist Block. I'm glad we agree on the planning of what rural people should be. What I no longer thought was so appropriate was that she had devoted much of her exhibition to talking about the potato's elbow, saying that the counselor was passing over or that we weren't transferring enough information. I want to transfer that, in addition to what can be collected by the information advisor that technicians give, there's a lot of other work that is being done, it just has to do with yesterday's voice in the set of very strong measures that have been taken in connection with this plague. I will speak positively, as we are talking in Commission 7a, trying to reach agreements, consensus, and trying to do among all the rural people that we want. In this sense, I also want to make reference -- because we're talking about negative things -- to the news within our project, which is also published in yesterday's Vigo Lighthouse, which collects as data that employment in Greek agriculture takes six quarters of rise. In the period from mid-2015 to the end of 2016, an increase of more than 16,000 workers increased by 26%. In all Spain, this increase assumed that 1 out of 5 new jobs in Spanish rurals corresponded to our community. Well, I don't think we're doing very well in these terms. Ladies and gentlemen, our electoral programme and the strategic lines that the advisor has defended here are planning or defending a multifunctional rural, respectful of natural and landscaped resources, living and dynamic, and oriented to quality agro-food production. I'm sure it's your project, too. I'm sure the measures we take in our day-to-day work and the consulting work are oriented here. And what I'm asking you is that we all work to achieve this, because it's a country goal. First of all, we are talking about quality agricultural production. So, in order to achieve that rural that we defend, and also to fight against depopulation, we need agricultural and forestry productions that generate products with sufficient added value to benefit all participants in the production process. Also to the winegrowers, also to the livestock... of course, we're not here now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing we have to be clear — and I think this is important for us to underline — is that farmers and farmers, whatever their size, are rural entrepreneurs and have to be treated as such. They have to assume, therefore, that their companies must obtain economic profitability. The Administration must support agricultural holdings and act in those areas that can undoubtedly contribute to their profitability. Ladies and gentlemen, what cannot be done is to solve the problems of rural areas with illegal solutions or which are contrary to European competition rules, such as setting a minimum price for milk, which we have had occasion to debate recently in this plenary session. In addition, in order to bet on this quality agricultural production — I think I am talking about something that we should all be interested in as a quality agricultural production — we are trying to take the measures to defend it. I'm going to underline some of the issues you picked up in your speech by the counselor. First, I support native varieties and breeds. Look, I'm going to tell you about a very dynamic sector in the rural region of Galicia, because not everything is going to be unfortunate in this rural area of the wine sector. There is clear support from the Galician Union for varietal conversion. For ten years, even at the time of the Bipartite, this varietal conversion was supported by 60 million euros, and we acted on more than 4,000 hectares. In 2016 – in the 2016 harvest – more than 90% of the grapes produced correspond to native varieties. What did this translate into? In that also in 2016, for the first time, we exceeded 40 million marketing, with a market value higher than 230 million euros. We're talking about a very important sector, and to me there's a fact that I also think of a lot of transcendence, and it's that nearly 8 million of these liters have been exported. That's where we have to support ourselves, varieties and autochthonous races. Secondly, and within this search for quality agricultural production, we must also support the marketing of quality production. We have to support, without a doubt, the designations of origin and protected geographical indications, to which we, as a parliamentary group, have been visiting since the beginning of the year in order to know their needs, their concerns and their proposals in different fields, as can be that of promotion. Promotion that, in addition to relying on the designations of origin and protected geographical indications, must take Galicia as a brand of promotion both at the national and international levels, because we are firmly convinced of the potential of our land for that production. And here, by calling again what I'm saying and what my parliamentary group is saying about is doing the consulting, I would highlight support for the promotion of quality products carried out by regulatory councils or associations — investment this year of EUR 3.5 million — or help to improve the processing and marketing conditions of the agri-food products they seek to develop — as the advisor pointed out — 655 transformation projects in the four years of legislation. Only in this year 2017, in this fallen rural area, 185 projects have been introduced, with a planned investment of more than 128 million euros. Home!, there are people, there are entrepreneurs, who are betting on the countryside. We're also looking for stronger companies. When I talk about stronger companies, I'm not talking about opposition gentlemen, bringing multinationals into rural areas, or making macro-grindes of 20,000 cows, I'm talking about strengthening our productive sector as a way to achieve greater negotiating capacity against the distribution sector. And I would point out here the example, in the cooperative field, of combined dairy cooperatives; or the bet — which also pointed out to the advisor — with lines of help to encourage the use of machinery collectively. Now I'm referring to one thing that was common in the intervention of the opposition voices, which is the mobilization of productive land. This has already been heard by us several times in Commission 7a. We have a great concern — because we believe in rural areas — about the mobilization of productive land. Look, the lack of a territorial base is a structural problem that has been unresolved for years, and that we have to solve. And here we have to work using the instruments we have available for that mobilization and restructuring. First of all — for this purpose of collecting everything you have talked about the strategic lines and our proposal — I have to talk about the commitment to complete the 130 partial concentrations, which will affect 117,000 hectares and about 92,000 owners. Ladies and gentlemen, 80 million investments in this legislation. In addition, we have to develop the legislative instruments that allow this mobilization: Law of improvement of the territorial structure of Galicia, of the year 2015, which collects different instruments, for both the partial restructuring and the restructuring by private individuals or the permutation of farms in rural areas. And I'm interested in pointing out already, like the news of this work being done, two mechanisms that the advisor also provided. MARCOS, the agrarian surface restructuring mechanism, which will be an axile farm lease system; and the Advisory and Management Unit for Agricultural Exploitations, which will do, is to act as an intermediary between those who abandon their farms and those who seek a livelihood in rural areas. Let's try to mobilize 300 hectares this year. With regard to this mobilization — although reference was made to this mechanism and in some cases it was criticized — I would also like to highlight the Zero Tax Strategy in rural areas. It has been noted that it is an instrument that seeks to avoid one of the starting obstacles to this mobilization, eliminating the tax cost of transactions. I think something of importance must be given when last year they benefited from this instrument, this zero tax program, over 6,500 landowners, who had a tax savings of 6 million euros. I mean, we're talking about a measure that will increase the mobilization of productive land without any public expenditure. In addition, we will continue in this strategy by eliminating the payment of taxes on the purchase of the usual housing in the rural municipalities to groups of young people under 36 years of age, large families and persons with disabilities. I repeat to you that for us the goal of mobilising productive land is one of our main concerns, and I would ask you here, as I have told you many times in the course of Commission 7a, that we were able to make contributions and reach agreements to get this mobilization forward. We're talking about a rural that makes a quality agri-food production, we're also talking about a living, dynamic and environmentally friendly rural, as the advisor said. Within this dynamic rural, it's also very important, no doubt, the generational remittance. I mean here to tell Mr Quiroga that it is good to criticize with regard to taxation of aid for incorporation into the field, but solutions have to be made. We're working on the contribution of those solutions, although I remind you it's a matter that affects the Government of Spain. But you can urge the Government of Spain to modify the taxation of this kind of aid. In relation to the forest sector and to the subject — which is relevant for its part — of the Eucalyptus monoculture, I want to transfer to it — and no doubt to me in the second round of my intervention — that we have to be clear what the Forest Council has set out in the Forest Plan. That's where we all have to work to achieve, precisely, the mountain model that we want to defend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u16	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Replica, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rivas, this isn't about speeches. Speeches don't have ideology. It's about reality. Those might like it better or they might like it less, but that's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] It's my speech for years, and it's my speech here. So it's the line Galicia wants, it's the rural line, and we're convinced we'll be able to get it forward. Panic? None. Transparency, all of it. People have to get closer, they have to tell reality, and in the case of the potato's elbow, they think that the politics are very little, and every time we go politicians, what we do is to fool the citizen, it's to fool the peasant. The first-hand technicians gave them the realities, and there are the technicians. Come with the politicians, but believe me that the less politicians speak, whether on one side or on another, much better. [[Applause]] Above all, some politicians are more credible than others. [[Applause]] As far as the potato's leg is concerned, could you do better? Everything in this life can do better, believe me. Now, say I was in three municipalities and look at the one we're riding now that it's in 31... in 31... there's no 32 affected. At any time there'll be 32 hits, it could be. The canaries are entirely affected and no action has been taken. But it's 31 municipalities affected. The first resolution was in November or December of 2015. First you have to detect it, then see whether it's about the elbow or not it's about the elbow, and from then on, in 2016, the different investigations were made to see how it went forward. In the Canary Islands they've been investigating since 1999, and I'm afraid the result hasn't been the best. And we will seek, along with Asturias, that we go hand in hand because this isn't about ideology or government, it's about vegetable health, it's about doing the same, it's about consensus, but it's about a lot of work by means of it. And why didn't you take a decree from Galicia? Because it affects several autonomous communities. By which both Asturias and Galicia determined that it was the ministry that had removed the royal decree, and we previously informed, and we did so in addition with a resolution. The first resolution was in November 2015. The second made it to Galicia's board on February 11, 2016, and we did the posteriori, after the actual decree of the ministry, an adaptation on March 5th. As far as meetings are concerned, and if there's no information, I think it's never been so clear and transparent and I think we've never been so close to talking to the first-hand peasant. And for institutional respect, the first thing we did was meet with the municipalities, with each and every one of the municipalities, he did it in addition to the director general, and he did the technicians as well. Together with the municipalities, agricultural organizations, it was the second, and it was done in addition to the Agrarian Council. It was done with the distribution, 50,000 leaflets were distributed, 5,000 cartels, 850 traps, 1,400 chickens, the corresponding phytosanitaries, and one long et cetera. Meetings with Fegamp -- by the way, I want to thank you from here for your collaboration, where all the municipalities are represented -- with the Autonomic Police, with the Civil Guard. You can do better, very sure. Each one, within our facets, we can do better. Now, believe me that both Asturias and Galicia are doing the impossible to end up with the elbow as soon as possible. And we have to remember that in Canary Islands the couza has been in the year 1999, and it's in the whole territory. And of course we're going to compensate people, and those compensations range from 0.30 to 0.70 cents of euro. And it will come out, in addition, soon, but it comes out in the same line as Asturias; and it's just that, once again — I repeat — it's not about different governments, it's about fighting for something. So, we should all be together here, too, and of course, never compare it to the mad cow crisis. I, who have lived him as a captive's daughter, ask for caution, please, first of all. It's about vegetable health here, it's never about that it can affect us, people, because we're weak in favor of all this. Maybe we want to do a media favor, a headline, something political, but those who live from the potato are asking us for the IXP and the different organizations is that we are wise, and that wisdom is what I want to move to the different political groups. [[Applause]] They talked at a certain point about the dismantling of agricultural offices. I want to tell you that the technicians have increased last year in the different agricultural offices that I now appoint them: The Bridges, Chambers, Cedera, Ferrol, Pattern, Mondoñedo, Monforte, Vilalba, Verín and Ponteareas. Are they necessary more? Of course! Is it going to be Galician board priority? Of course! What was 10? Of course! What are 455 of us in the different agricultural offices? You too. And we have 40 vacancies that we'll be covering soon? That, too. I think it's gonna be like that. Agrarian offices are the ones that have to be next to the glover to inform you first-hand. [[Applause]] But also in rural areas there was something called crisis, and it was prioritized; something called health — fundamental — was prioritized and something called education was prioritized. [[Applause]] It is now time to prioritize, in this legislation, which is rural, also agricultural offices. The same thing that was done with fire brigade personnel, which we prioritized last year. We were also talking — someone was saying it, and I was pointing out — that we are now approaching the neighboring mountains in common. Home!, the orders of afforestation, forestry, fire prevention and direct investment if any priority is the neighboring mountains in common, and could not be otherwise, because it's 600,000 hectares; it comes as the entire province of Ourense, and it's 150,000 municipalities. What are we going to make more effort? Of course, and there's my commitment. As far as courses were concerned, it was said that private entities were being handed over to rural media. Well, I mean, 1.4 million euros are from courses given in our own centers, and we're not talking about the regular training from month to month, but about specific courses to provide rural people with higher education. Scope of the milk. They're more than predictable, and of course that couldn't be missing. And speaking of what milk itself is, we also talk about regulating, and, within regulation, the identification of milk products and dairy derivatives; that is, the regulation will not only be for liquid milk, it is for milk and dairy derivatives. How did Galicia stand in that direction? By saying that only a gram of milk into powder that had not been transformed into Spain can't be said to be a product of Spain, but you have to put the identification of where it comes from. That's where we're working, as in the regulation of the first buyers, and so we made it known to the Ministry, to which we transferred the various legal reports, and by the Galician Competition we think we're on the right line. Anyway, I'm going to give you all the milk prices, more than anything, so you don't get confused. Because, of course, we're talking about milk at 17 cents, Mr Rivas... give me the data on that exploitation because we're going to take the relevant measures. Believe me, we will, because we are doing so day by day, in direct relation to each other, but then I explain it for the kid. Well, there's another subject to be dealt with, which is the eucalyptus. I'm from here holding my hand, and holding your hand is: from the Galician Board, from the Middle Rural Council, are we anti-eucalyptus? No, the eucalyptus has to live with the rest of the species; unlike ordering the planting of these eucalyptuses. But when, on the side of the Rural Council -- because we are so transparent, just as we did with the potato's elbow -- we redistributed a draft of a eucalyptus management decree, I want to remember that there were many municipalities of different ideologies that were not of the People's Party that were repeatedly denied that there was such regulation of the eucalyptus. And it was about dividing Galicia into two parts. An engine or two engines? Not at all. That draft decree was made with a director, a director who came out of the Forest Council, where everyone was represented there and agreed. And we focus on those municipalities where in the wild models of the year 2014 the eucalyptus was an anecdote or did not exist. That's the reality. After giving all that information and after seeing that people here are positioned in one way, but then on the street they are positioned in another way, or when it comes to municipalities where because it gives us a little fear to talk to the landowner and propose another alternative they are positioned in another way, we decide that regulation is going to be done and that if it has to be done, it can't be another way, but it's going to be within the Forest Council. And I gave you a date, and that date was June 2017, where you'll come out of the guidelines that I'm going to give you, of course, if you'll be presented to them, but you'll also be approved by the board of directors. We were talking about a lack of budget and, therefore, little forecast. Well, what happened was a lot of files; there were a lot of people who chose rural this year, who wanted to modernize their farms to be more competitive. That's why we increased this year from 60 million euros to 65 million euros. I now found myself in milk, and, within the milk, in that period that we all lived, which was the disappearance of milk quotas and the survival of a year where everyone was a bit lost. And why was he lost? Because it was believed that the disappearance of quotas would be supposed to produce without frontiers. And it can produce without borders always and when there is consumption, always and when we are able to put our milk on the market. Galicia had to be reorganized to the rest of Spain, but also to the rest of the countries of the European Union. And believe me that we have the ability to reorganize ourselves, which is to praise here from this Parliament, and it has done so. They got, among other things, first of all, to associate. I've heard from here that I don't want people to associate. But, well, if it's my first speech! I always said Galicia must be united to be competitive. The gloves must join together and be strong. And besides, in the different lines of help, what we do is prioritize both women — but not just women — and societies. And why do societies have to be within the rural environment? Because we know it's very hard work, because we have to work the 365 days of the year and because it's impossible to live a decent life like the rest of the world if there's no society and if, therefore, they have no right to that rest, which can be a week, can be morning or can be a vacation. We urge you to do so. But not only the gloves, we urge strong producer organizations to be created. And I'll be next to you because I'm the sector, I'm not the one putting the locks on that sector and I want the sector alive, alive and getting stronger. And, in that sense, what was achieved this year? So civil society — I want to tell you the data we have right now — more than 1,500 partners in Galicia. Most of these civil societies, which produce 32% of milk, were constituted last year. In any case, at the end of the quotas, I have to say they didn't expect a drop in production. Today, dairy production in Galicia continues, more and more, it increases; it has increased by 0.77% above the European Union average. We must also talk about professionalization processes, and we must talk about resizing the sector, which over the past five years has been involved in the fact that 800 individual farms have become part of societies; the 800 farms have not disappeared, they are part of a society. Another indicator of this conversion is that, despite the initial price drop, these have been kept in an ascending line since the last six months, with an increase of 5.21 % between January 2016 and the same month 2017. It's gone from 28.8 cents to 30.3 cents/litre - well, you know that oxalá was 30 cents, it's liter cents. If we compare, in April 2015, when the quotas are no longer in force, we see prices rising at the same percentage. In April 2015 we were at 28.8 cents. How are we now? In 30.3, that is, we've been at the best price since March 2015. Is that enough? Of course not. Is the trend upward? Of course I do. The sector is consolidated in Galicia? The answer is yes. In addition, an increase in billing is also being recorded. At the time of the abolition of monthly allowances in Galicia, 63 million euros were charged. Now we're billing EUR 64 million, that is, 750 million a year since the quotas disappeared. If we compare it month by month, Galicia invoices 1 million euros more a month. Another positive factor is the difference between the average price between Spain and Galicia, which has been reduced at this time. If in April 2015 Galicia was at 2.3 cents below the national average — i.e. 28.8 versus 31.1 — the difference is now 1.3 cents — of 30.3 to 31.6. And here there's no kind of trap or cardboard, this is the reality. Now, do we have to end that differential? Of course. But it's also true that Galicia is the one that produces and it's the one that has to transport liquid milk to the rest of Spain. That's what we want to avoid and that the transformation here is done. On the other hand, if we pay attention to the weight of Galicia in the national dairy sector as a whole, we can see that it remains virtually unchanged. In the period 2014-2015, the number of holdings with deliveries in our community accounted for 56.3% of Spain's total, and in the current period it is 56%. And you see I give all the data; if it comes up by 3%, I say it, and if it goes down by 3%, I say it, too, because that's the reality, and that's how we have to work on Galicia. Because I believe that with that catastrophic, sad, melancholy speech, weak favor we're doing to our sector. This same source — the Mapama — also indicates that Galicia is among the autonomys in which the declared deliveries of raw milk and their yields were increased, both by exploitation and by cow; all this comparing the 2014-2015 periods, on the one hand, and 2015-2016, on the other. Mapama also notes that, after the first year without a milk quota system, there is a trend towards an increase in the number of more sized farms in the strata between 500,000 and 1 million kilograms, between 1 million and 3 million kilograms, and between 3 and 8 million kilograms. This reinforces the trend towards the resizing and further professionalization of the sector, because younger farmers have the largest farms. In fact, one in ten farms is run by young people under the age of 30. And another positive fact that I showed you in my exhibition was that call, last year, that last year, that was the biggest call, the largest number of applications since the historical series, that is, since 1999, that was the 618 incorporations of young people into agrarian activity. In this sense, 618 to 38% of them are intended for or are directed to milk. Another factor that should be taken into account when analyzing the march of the dairy sector in Galicia has to do with clustering processes -- that grouping that someone said I didn't want. Well, that grouping is doing it, of course, which is how it should be, that it should not be a government director, regardless of whether we say that this is one of our objectives, but that we support; it is the case of Clun, how in other cases could be the merger of the co-operative Lemos and Coreber for the purchase of a brand that was established in Galicia. And positive data, because the spokesperson said it earlier, and it's also data that we can contrast, it's data that we can analyze, it's not something that we take away from a joke, as if magic had referred to. It's data, already out of milk, according to Sepe, the unemployment registered fell in Galicia last February in the agriculture sector by 1.21%, with 100 unemployed less in January. As for February 2016, the fall was 8.79%, with 784 unemployed less in the sector, with exceptionally good behavior in the province of Coruña, with an annual fall of 12.75%; Lugo followed, with 8.79% in this case; 7.2% in Pontevedra; and 6.27% in the province of Ourense. And besides, we have to analyze everything because if they don't say: well, what about social security memberships? In addition, memberships of the special agricultural system of general social security regime grew by 1.42% in January, and the increase in February 2016 was 4.33%. But we also analyzed EPA, and so there's nothing left without analysis. The last quarter of 2016 offers positive data, as the number of people employed in the sector has increased from the fourth quarter of 2015 to 21.9%, to 55,100 people. An average of 27 new jobs per day in a year. I think this has to be put in value, no matter how much more work needs. And there's a fundamental factor that I also started talking about, which is the population area in our rural area. Ladies and gentlemen, I really have to tell you that this interest on the part of some of us spreading misdirected information or messages at a time we can consider sustained and continuous growth is not good, and it's not good for the sector; they can be good among us the political riferrafes and say who does the best or worst. But believe me, it's not who does it better or worse from this forum, but it's the constant commitment of rural people to make it better, to have better quality of life, and to have a generational mix. On the one hand, there are the lines we make available to all of them, but on the other hand, it's the tireless work of rural people. And so we'll go on. We will continue to work not only on that issue, but also on acquiring companies that settle in rural areas, which often have nothing to do with the transformation of rural areas, but also with quality of life and services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u18	Thank you very much, Counselor. They have the possibility to intervene the groups again. By the Parliamentary Group of the BNG Mr Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counselor, I don't know what to do anymore, you're poetry. What happens is that to me when I pronounce these words I happen to — and believe me, without a sense of offense — that said the poet of: "Maldigo the poetry conceived as a luxury / cultural by neutrals / who, by washing their hands, dissemble and escape". And that sounds like it to me. Yes, in Spanish, because the poet spoke in this language. My memory doesn't give much more, but, well, in poetry I have something. [[Applause]] And I repeat: I want to live in that country that you draw, figures that are skilledly used... look, the country where I live and what I go through every day doesn't have those figures, nor do I answer those numbers; the numbers are used as one wants. But yet she has sadness, deep sadness, and that's when you look at people. And you have the need for hope that is not words; facts and certainty is what you need. The speech of catastrophism and melancholy has clearly shown it in the past mobilizations of the milk sector. It cost me the remission of grief: only two months and a day in charge of mayor, and I was sent home, or here to this little Parliamentary. But, well, here I am to keep giving my face, and there we are looking, giving face to the dairy sector; in different ways, of course: we give the face and the heart. Look, waiting for groupings to occur by spontaneous generation, that was and it's suicide; yes, these rural groupings are suicide. And if that's the project you have to believe, it's the sample of an absence of a project. I don't know where to start because there are so many things: Agacal, are you finally going to do something with her? They've been trying to do this agency for so many years. Sustainable agriculture, where is agriculture? Apart from that self-consumption agriculture and four ventured ventures that are trying to make agriculture almost without market, where is it? Because that agriculture could be generalized, because we have a country with a barbaric soil that is wonderful to produce quality agriculture. And we had the people prepared — we have fewer and fewer people prepared — who lived and were born, and who lived their lives in symbiosis with the environment, and who needs a little training to do that agriculture. Where's the Council's intention that you don't see for nowhere? Training. That is the point of the matter, especially for those who teach throughout their lives. New technologies and, above all, joint equipment, installations and machinery, socialization. You're getting Bolsheviks, that, they're getting a little Bolsheviks. Green flag in the mountains, sustainable mountains, forest and agrarian use, multifunctionality to the top, mountains in common hand, that's what sounds to me. So why are you looking around for them? Yes, why do you claim all that debt? Why don't you get help for that supposed historical debt that you have, why are you constantly putting traps and stumblings on them, especially those common-hand mountains that are pioneers, that go on the advance of that multifunctional mountain, that sustainable use of the mountain? Extensive pastures, welcome are!, which recognize they are worth something. Do you know what a living rural man is? They're telling us businessmen. Of course, it's a willful thing that you've had for so long, I remember when I was young, when I was young, which was a long time ago, we were going to sing against that corporate quota, remember? Well, you weren't born yet, I think. But there was one thing that surprised the people, those peasants who just left some of their homes, not all of them, and who forced them to pay their corporate share. You had to get us out of our mouth, and Mr. González — I think it is, isn't it? — and Mr. González has already heard me say: yes, of course, the owners want to be entrepreneurs; of course, we never deny it, family or businessmen to dry, of course, but they are still gainful and are still rural people. Look, I'm going to conclude by taking the words of Mr López Iglesias, who is an eminent authority in the matter and who says that it is essential a land reform not centered on property, as were the agricultural reforms of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th century, but focused on uses and productive mobilization of surfaces. How can the land of 600,000 farm owners be made available to 25,000 or 40,000 dairy farms?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u21	This is the question: land mobility, costing the liter of milk. You know it well and you know how to do it. But with a Land Bank with an budget of €89,000, you will tell me, apart from the common masses that are left of the parcels, how many hectares will enter the Land Bank at the disposal of those farmers and their owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. Mr Quiroga Díaz has the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u23	Well, taking out a little bit of Mini, which pulls from Celaya, we have to continue that loop to finish as it ends up we're playing bottom in the countryside. I'd like to nuance you that every speech, absolutely everything, has ideology, and we're here because of ideology, I think, I believe it. [[Applause]] I also want to tell you that there is no catastrophe in our speech, but simply a vision of reality that doesn't agree. And it's good that the achievements, that there are, and the things that are well done, that there are, because they praise them, you sing them, you produce them, and we're not going to be the ones who yield in those respects. Our function — I think — as the opposition will be to emphasize, to outline, to talk about those things that either don't work well, or do not work properly, or there are, or must be implemented, or suppressed, and so on, and so forth. About the prices of milk, counselor, we are very pleased to be aware that they are on the road, in the right way to end by solving the problem of the identification of dairy products, especially of derivatives, about their origin. For us it is good news, and we hope that this will happen, not only in liquid milk, which, as I said in the previous intervention, is the minimum part of imports, but above all in milk products. We see he escapes from the Land Bank. And I've already said in the first intervention that mergers respond more to a model of another era than to the current one, for costs, for slowness and for not adapting to the orographic peculiarities of our country. And I see they escape from this issue, and I already emphasized in the first intervention the sign of the 80,000 euros dedicated to it in the budget. On the subject of management, I see you're also missing. And the delay in doing, in freeing, in approving a file, that's entrepreneurship, that can't be allowed in a modern, agile administration, as it is intended today. I would like to remind you that at the end of last year there were about 30% of the unreleased European aid from Fogga, and I already told you on that occasion that there had been a misunderstanding, and we didn't know whether it was the cause of lack of personnel or whether it was not properly coordinated. With regard to the Forest Plan, we see that it takes care of the need of this country to have a Forest Plan. Let us hope that the causes of the failure of the 1992 Forest Plan will be taken into account. And the causes basically have to sum up in three points: Rural is a changing and dynamic set, and the plan was made without proper account of the social and societal fabric of the forest world; it was left aside or not given sufficient attention. And I would like to remind you that on page 99 of the guidelines you speak of, which emerge from the Forest Council, it is specifically said that more administration of advisory bodies must be removed and much more social and industrial fabric should be included. That's what the guidelines you refer to. So listen to him. And I want to remind you of the second aspect you failed by, which is the lack of investment, investment and research in genetics, improvements, pests and so on. That's how we have the pine industry totally behind because it didn't do the research duties. Nor has sufficient investment been made in the first and second transformation industries. Now yes, the investment was great in a firefighting system, which ultimately depends entirely on weather as we all know. You speak of the need to sort out the space that occupies the eucalyptus, and we fully agree that you have to order that space, and you have the legal mechanisms to do so. I would point out that it is incomprehensible as 30,000 hectares — especially in the provinces of Coruña and northern Lugo — of agricultural land and meadows are occupied by eucalyptus, mainly by eucalyptus. Yes, you have to order. But I also want to tell you that we have to start looking for compensation systems for those producers and owners who are the ones who provoke and maintain the monoculture of the eucalyptus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u25	- It's over. - Of potatoes, there's no time for anything. I see it escapes from the subject of the boar, which is fundamental and which is not only complicating the lives of our livestock but also sadly the traffic on the roads. And one last reference, Mr. González, I see he's got a lot of wine, wine fields. I also saw him making a visit to the Sacred Ribeira, but I want to remind him that in Ribeiro, which must be his area, no approved contract has been made. And when he comes to the Sacred River... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u27	...when he comes to the Sacred Ribeira, which is where I live, besides inviting him to visit me, that I will receive him with open doors, I mean that there is no replacement, there is no generational replacement to continue the activity. There's so much change that the other day you were interviewing a council president...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u28	Finish, please, Mr. Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u29	...that he doesn't have a replacement after twenty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Rodríguez Estévez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u31	Thank you, Vice President. Poor favor can we do to our farm with a catastrophic or apocalyptic vision as we have, and weak favor can be done to our farm as you do, selling a parallel reality that is now non-existent. From Marea, you talked about improvement plans, we believe that there is insufficient support for the incorporation of young people into farming activities that guarantee the generational relief of farms and facilitates the opening of new farms. Insufficient programmes with insufficient budget allocation over a long period of time and with access to counselling and training. In no case should these aids be used to promote excessive indebtedness of the beneficiary, as is happening with certain banking entities, and the abusive taxation of such aid must be stopped. Last year — I think you said that six hundred improvement plans were approved, correct me if I'm wrong — how many applications were left out? More than one hundred and fifty requests for plans for improvement were left out of the order of grants due to the lack of budgetary departure. You announced that they will resume, but you know that once the new summons are made, the entrepreneurs and the entrepreneurs will have to start again with the instances, and this will not ensure that they are assisted. Milk, more than six hundred farms in 2016. The Greek farms lost a quarter of their cows in ten years. These figures show the absence of generational relief and the dismantling of small farms. The existing problem of abandonment is exacerbated, since agricultural land occupies only 22% of the total area, and is increasing the possibility of forest fires, as well as territorial imbalances and demographic backwardness in rural areas. You say you strongly support projects that will generate quality-based added value and spent two or three days ago for a municipality, next to an Afin mayor, like, the People's Party, promising €800,000 to reactivate you don't know very well what, not counting the paychecks, not counting the agents involved and not counting the unions. Those are caccic practices that are currently in existence in 2017. [[Applause]] The agroforestry training centres dependent on the Rural Council have a very important mission, which is to promote the professionalization and incorporation of girls and young people into the primary sector and the lifelong learning of professionals in the sector. These factors are key to restoring the country's territorial balance, helping to set rural populations and improving our prospects for the future. The centres of agroforestry training and experimentation of Guisamo, of Becerreá, of Sergude, of Ribadeo, of Monforte and of Lourizán, dependent on the General Sub-Direction for Training and Technology Transfer of their advisorship, are offering courses of regular teaching, particularly medium- and higher-grade training cycles. That's why to respond to these needs should offer a quality training offer that is shared with the right material and human resources, and now they don't have them. In recent times there have been serious deficiencies that threaten the achievement of these objectives. The policy of cuts carried out by the German Government meant less teachers, less economic resources for these centres, less material means and thus less opportunities for these public centers, which again favours, like, private centers. For our part, nothing more and thank you for the lady's assistance. But I think we should make a not so catastrophic reading if you think our service is like this, but a little more real of everything that's going on in rural areas, that we see abandoned villages, we see schools that are closing, we see how they're privatizing the dining room service, how they take off bus lines, how people get more and more services from medical centers, and there are fewer inhabitants, very few rural municipalities raise their census at the end of the year. And I think it's because of some policies that the Bipartite in four years hasn't dismantled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Mr González Vázquez has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond to some of the speeches of the opposition's spokesmen, trying to make two words concrete, and without any accuracy: rigor and work. Mr Rivas — and I say this to you without accuracy — you are a poet, I really say it, and in many of your speeches in the Commission 7th, it is nice to hear you speak in some of your ideas. I'm just telling you not to marry very well that you spoke here and referred to all of us as "Parliamentary." I want to remember that your spokesperson spoke the other day to dignify Parliament. Home!, we are here working for the Greeks and the Greeks by presenting initiatives and making proposals. Work and rigour! [[Applause]] Mr. Quiroga, of course I can visit you at the Sacred Ribeira, I gladly accept your invitation. You're talking about the Land Bank, which has little money. I've already explained to you, or we've already explained to you, that apart from the Bank of Earth we have other instruments, and you also propose other possibilities. Work means that we have already put forward an initiative in this Parliament in which the Board was urged to power the Land Bank; therefore, we are working on that line. It's also about the boar. I'd tell you today that the show is about the middle of the countryside, not about the environment, that's where we're going to have to take this subject, if that's the case. And he made a reference to Ribeiro — by the way, I'm from there, of course, and I'm also very proud — and he talks about the approved contract. Look, this is a theme that I haven't just... it's not a subject that I understand exactly, because they're talking about an approved contract, what price? Because, what do you want, to make an approved contract of 20 cents or kilos of grapes? What's the plan? Do you know what the planning is? Support quality production, support that wines are sold worldwide and sold at a good price, so that wine growers can also be paid the price of their grapes. That's what we stand for here, the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Applause]] And he speaks, Mr Quiroga — and I am glad he brought you here — from page 99 of the guidelines of the Forest Council. I'm going to talk a little bit about the Forest Council and I'm going to talk about those guidelines. I don't know if you also remember that on February 2, 2017, our group presented a non-legislative proposal to urge the Union to strictly follow those guidelines in the drafting of the Forest Plan. Do you know who approved that LNP? The People's Party. What else did they do? Absterse. But before you get to page 99 of the guidelines, you have to start with the first ones. Look what those guidelines say, which is our bet on the mountain and the forest. They say, first, that there is no need to increase the current forest area by 2 million hectares — guideline 3 —. We must increase the current tree surface, which is 1.4 million hectares; that is, we want there to be no infrared, Mr. Rivas. The untreet surface has to be valued by increasing the production of pasture and fodder on the mountain; which was previously spoken by the pasture plan advisor. The wooded surface occupied by conifers should be increased, particularly the country's pine. Ladies and gentlemen, guideline 8: The area occupied by eucalyptus should be kept or reduced; we are talking about freezing or even reducing the surface of eucalyptus. We are not defenders of eucalyptus monoculture. He wants to tell you all the time, because it's not our policy for the mountain. And they also say the guidelines that must definitely increase the forested surface occupied by leafy cadifoli, through the promotion and planting of chestnuts, oaks, cherries, walnuts, strawberries and birchs. Is that what we want or don't want it? They make proposals in this regard. Within the strategy of the empowerment of the leafy deciduous deciduouss, I want to highlight here the very important role of chestnut, not only because of its economic importance, not only because of the economic importance that the advisor pointed out very well before, but also because of the ecological and cultural values that bring to our society the arboreal formations of this species. I, please, ask them not to think this is an empty speech of content, this is reality. We, the people of the People's Parliamentary Group believe in these proposals and we ask them for their cooperation in bringing them forward. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already finished my speech by noting that our parliamentary group is, of course, very pleased with the work carried out by the rural councillor, and we believe that the strategic lines described today will undoubtedly enable us to achieve tangible improvements in our rural areas, reaching our goal of having a multifunctional, living, dynamic, environmentally friendly and landscape-friendly rural area and of course a quality agri-food production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u34	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Closing turn of this audience, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u35	Thank you very much, President. I'll try to answer some of the questions or some of the facts that came out of the different voices. First, I believe in speeches, but those speeches have to be presented later in reality, in jobs, in facts, and that's what we're trying to do from this council, from the Middle Rural Council. When the president of the Galician Union, year and a half ago, deposited his trust in me, very aware that the Greek rural should resume his own path, once again having a specific council, we set ourselves up several targets. It wasn't that easy time. The crisis came later, but it had also come to the farm. So, on November 24, 2015, I came to this House to give them priorities, which we marked as the Rural Environment Council for a future. And I think today it's about taking a test and, therefore, not only talking about simple data, but talking about these facts, those works and those realities. I think that in the replica, progress in milk has been sufficiently explained, but in addition to the results in other areas, I want them to know here today: I went out as a priority at that time to promote the generational remittance in the Italian agriculture to support the young people who want to set up to develop agricultural activities, and the result was in a year of 618 young people incorporated into rural areas. Another priority was the improvement of farms and support for small farms, with the creation of producer groups to improve the negotiating position against the market. The results were 582 approved improvement plans. In fact, there were plans to improve without approval, but that means there was an interest, an important interest in investing in rural areas. With which we put on the balance every time we say, it's terrible, everybody wants to go. No, not everyone wants to go, people want to invest. And those who were left out, who had the incorporation but not an improvement plan, in this order are prioritized as priority 1 and they don't have to re-submit the documentation; if they follow their own plan, they just have to tell the Administration that they want to continue with that plan. In terms of improving access to farms and land base in infrastructures related to the development, adaptation and modernization of agriculture and forestry, the results are as follows: in 2016 the securities of seven partial mergers were delivered and the takeovers of other eleven were approved, some of which benefited 14,000 people. These are data that you can contrast, that I don't take them anywhere, that I have them there so they can check them out. With regard to support for the agri-food industry to enable the reversing of the primary sector, increasing the added value of agricultural and livestock production, the result was that in 2016 25 million euros were invested in fifty-nine approved transformation projects. As I told you, in 2017 we have one hundred and eighty-five agri-food industry projects for the transformation of our products, worth 128 million euros. And believe me that we will do our best and impossible to attend to them. Another of the priorities I expressed here was the impetus of the forest sector, investing in forest technologies, the establishment and maintenance of forest areas and investment aimed at increasing residence and environmental value. The result: one hundred and twenty forest product transformation projects that received 10 million euros in aid last year. I'm talking about the reality, not the future. We also bet on the dynamization of the rural population through investment, creation and development of non-agricultural activities. The results in this sector are also quantified: EUR 3.5 million, which helped to create 20 companies in rural areas, the improvement of sixty others, the promotion and consolidation of 300 jobs and the creation of 100 jobs in rural areas. I also mentioned the interest in keeping the agricultural population in mountain areas or with other natural limitations. As a result, in 2016 about 20 million euros were allocated to this goal. The development of agriculture and sustainable and environmentally friendly income and natural resources is also a priority of the Government of Greece. This measure supports actions geared towards extensive practices of livestock, beef and milk, beekeeping and indigenous breeds in danger of extinction. For the first time, it will also start a specific line directed solely to ecological production, covering the whole scope. In total, 10.5 million euros have been allocated. Of course, when some spokesman said that I spent last week, indeed, I didn't walk, walk, see and then I could talk to property, and I also invite them to do so. And they don't meet just with the mayor, they meet with the mayor, and they meet with thirty-five gourds. Those thirty-five gangsters had the chance not only to listen to me but also to ask. Because it's the only way to make politics for them, that comes out uniquely from them. With which walks are never buckets, and from time to time walking more would come to us much better. [[Applause]] I think I also thought I knew all of Galicia and sometimes I'm surprised. Of these surprises I'm learning, and there I'm trying to make a plan later, which are the plans that they themselves move us. I also told them of the interest in maintaining the agricultural population in those areas, and it was 20 million euros in 2016. Participation thanks to the Leader approach made a more dynamic rural in the previous stage, and now we've got the twenty-four groups already active and working. Of course we urge land mobility, and we do it through the Land Bank, but we do it in real terms. And here I have to name the Bipartite, which is that I have no other: 3,500 plots that were put in a bag called the Land Bank, that its goal was not agrarian, and in this Land Bank we have from some supermarket, going through a cemetery, a church. And that was at the time of the Bipartite. And now they're giving in to the municipalities because it was an unreal Earth Bank, now we're making the Real Land Bank. But not only the Land Bank, but it has opted for zero taxes in rural areas, on those plots or those rustic farms, with an end, and that end is to group. We advance in other fields, such as the achievement for forest fire defence service workers of the designation of their categories as forest firefighters, in addition to the passage to the second activity or the reduction in the rate of temporality. All of this signed in an agreement with the four trade union organizations. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is more than proven that when a councilman from this government comes to Parliament and talks about guidelines and talks about projects, after a year he is able to come here and recognize what has been done. And if he didn't reach those goals that he proposed, then nothing happens to say that we didn't reach them. In this age we reached stability and price rises in milk, we reached the fusion of cooperatives, but also of livestock to become stronger, as I just told them. Still, and since they can't only be promises, because then the citizen sees those promises and according to that qualification, and our qualification was the votes, rural people chose mostly for this government. I appreciate your interest in rural areas and invite you to work and choose, of course, the most precious thing we have in Galicia, which is that 97% of the territory that is our rural area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u36	Thank you, Counselor. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor of the Sea, on his own request, to report the general lines of action of his department
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u37	The sea councillor has the word for his presence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. I would like to begin my intervention by sending support and solidarity to all the members of the Barcelona Conference and also of solidarity to the families of the sailors who yesterday suffered a percance at the entrance of the port of Barcelona when they were again carrying out their fishing grounds. I compare today in front of this House to account for the general lines that will mark the direction of the Sea Council on this new road that started in 2016 will lead us to 2020 and that we hope it will be positive again for our marine-fishing sector. I have come to tell you, as representatives of the Greeks and the Greeks, of the main aspects that make up this renewed bet that from this government and from the group that sustains it we have to our sea. It's a renewed bet because it has the support of work well done during two legislates and it's a renewed bet in its value for how three times the majority confidence is delivered to us to develop it. With this trust in society and the sector, and to avoid disappointing it, we will work to make this new stage also the third step taken by the work that has been carried out. We took fear of the management and management of the sea-fishing industry in 2009 with only one objective: regaining the illusion of the sea. We started the walk under a perennial and necessary premise: changing the model of work to make productivity and competitiveness bring us to sustainability. At that time, as we are now, we were realistic and we saw that holding the sector with help, keeping only the boat on the deck, we wouldn't go out ahead. We needed changes and measures to make progress when the situation improved. In the light of statistical data, I believe that the sea-fishing sector and the sea-industry chain have achieved that purpose. Legal changes, budget support, management measures, argumentation of our requests and elbowed work led us to reverse that course. That was a sector that was losing weight in the German gross domestic product, until in 2008 it became only 1.8%. It is currently improving its participation in the aggregate, as over the four years from 2008 to 2012 the sector has improved its approach to the German GDP until it reaches 2.1. This was achieved because fishing has grown at a higher rate than the general economy in the period 2008-2012, from 2.2% to 2.8%. In this investment of course we have references today that at that time seemed unrealistic to achieve. Faced with the disappearance on our docks between 2005 and 2009 of more than half a thousand vessels, in 2016 our fleet's capacity rose slightly again. Faced with the abandonment of 850 people from the special sea regime in those years, in January 2017 we see how positive we are by comparing the number of affiliates on an annual basis. In front of the more than eight hundred seafarers who stopped falling permanently to the beach in that period, between 2015 and today we have a positive balance; then there would also be the possibility of incorporating more than one hundred and five people in these last three months. In front of sales on the far side that left part of the billing on the path of that quadrennial, we have today a billing of nearly five hundred million euros that gives us the historical value figure. Faced with a 44% drop in quotas in tonnes and values compared to 2005, in 2012 we turned to positive figures to reach a 40% overall sub-up, increasing their value by more than 100 percent. Let's move on. We're moving forward in every little bit of air. We are moving forward in budget plans, supporting and prioritizing productive investments over the needs of the board itself. We advance in the normative plane, conforming to the Fisheries Act and giving shape to the decree that regulates the arts and apparatus and the coverage of the permex. We move forward on the organizational plane, working hand in hand with the sector to bring forward standards, dictates such as that of the PCP by unanimity and arguments such as the need for higher quotas. It may seem that these advances are ethereal or that they are also lacking in concretion, but they all agree with data that affirm their practical reality and formation. I'm talking about the more than nine hundred regularized ships; I'm talking about reducing spending by more than 54 %; I'm talking about increasing the enrolment in our centres by 46%; I'm talking about the 8 million square meters regenerated for the seafood; I'm talking about zero betting for the battery counters; I'm talking about the more than 200 million euros placed at the disposal of the transformer sector; I'm talking about the exponential growth of the product certified by "fishingRies"; I'm talking about reducing the C areas by 50%, going to be less than 7% of the surface of the productive areas; I'm talking about reducing the rates at ports by 15% and still investing more than 162 million euros at the top of our hundred and two quays. But addressing these issues from day to day was not the object of welcoming you to an important action in other areas that could be summarized in two groups and four lines of work and figures: A block of future, diversification and research. In diversification, starting the coastal action groups and taking the front as soon as you start almost from zero to run 427 projects along the entire coast. In research, by driving Cetmar to increase the funds for the projects he manages by 465%. Another block of security, with absolute gloss of food control, rescues and fights against pollution and theft. In the monitoring of food safety, working to make Intemar a reference and can adapt to the new chemical analytical method for biotoxin detection. In the safety of the sea and in the control of theft, ensuring the operation of helicopters throughout the year, with a 10-minute response and triple seizures and doubling the commissions in the first two years of mandate. And all this without losing a fundamental reference to our short- and medium-term maritime fishing: the renewal of the common fisheries policy, starting that change in 2009 and ending in 2013. We were able to argue the need to balance environmental, social and economic aspects. We flexibility issues such as the maximum sustainable yield or the obligation to land for all catches. We were able to bring our percentage distribution figure upwards in the Spanish context, from 44% in the period 2007-2014 to 51% for this period 2014-2020. Speaking already of this legislation, I think it is necessary to say that the line of work will continue to be that of competitiveness, sustainability and productivity, all that about a fundamental pillar: realism. We've been working on that line since minute one. So in these first 100 days since the start of this new period, we are already installed on that line with good results. In terms of sustainability, we work to be able to have more and better quotas, and we can increase them by 20% by 2017. In terms of competitiveness, we have put at the disposal of the sector and the chain of the sea industry nearly EUR 20 million in aid for improvements on board, batteries and aquaculture and small processing companies. In terms of productivity, we have already moved forward in the drive of new port infrastructures in nine Greek docks and have allocated EUR 5 million for the improvement of the maritime environment. That's how we want to keep working, with realism and illusion. We have before us a period in which to consolidate this change of course and expand growth. And for that, more activity is needed, less brakes and cutbacks, increasing fishing quotas and shellfishing areas and reducing spending and pollution; more co-governance and less bureaucracy, increasing the ability to organize the sector and simplify the legislation in force; more infrastructures and less comparative harm, advancing the provision of better docks and distances and reducing the dumping that make us other fleets. But all these aspects need specific measures and initiatives, which must lead us to achieve an improvement in all the issues that I have just pointed out. We have only one way to do this: working with the sector. We'll work with our fishing professionals to have practical arguments and also with scientists, to get solid arguments that lead us to get bigger and more quotas — the real battle horse of our fishing — moving forward in its management to get a better use of the possibilities of available captures. This same line will continue to facilitate and implement in a practical way the prohibition of discards, technical measures and control, without adversely affecting the operation and competitiveness of our fleet. Craftsmen's fishing will be one of the central points of our efforts, for which the development of the Plan of Competitiveness and Sustainability of artisanal coastal fishing will add value to the specificities of our fleet on quota and discard. We will defend our fleet of height and height, working to extend to other fleets of third countries the same environmental and social standards that ours meets, and betting to coordinate our external action to reinforce the settlement of our fishing interests in countries such as Namibia, Argentina or Peru. We will also work with the professionals of seafood, so that this activity continues with the positive path it has been going, so that we can move forward towards greater productivity through the expansion of crop and semi-cultivative work, based on the sedation of bivalve seed and the improvement of the quality of the waters in which its extraction work is developed. This makes it necessary to gain the land left by these improvements posed by the recovery of unproductive areas and the empowerment of existing conditions. Since it must go in parallel with the constant brake on furtivisism and the axillization of access to the permex that enables the development of the activity. We will work from the hands of the professionals of mitiliculture and aquaculture to get ahead — always with their consensus and with their will forward — a policy framework that embraces and regulates this activity, so that it can be developed with legal certainty and full environmental respect. We will strongly support the mitigation sector, boosting the cultivation of the mexillon, by strengthening its traceability, and promoting innovation in this sector that will enable it to make the best use of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. No doubt, this bet by the cultivation of the mexillon is catapulted in an important way by the security that gives the owners the recent expansions of the concessions up to the age of 50, which is added beyond the zero post of the counters that we made in 2009. We will work with professionals and processing and marketing companies to approve the main pending subject of our marine-fishing structure: getting the highest added value and the proper sale of our products. We will work on consolidating and expanding the presence of our fish and seafood in the markets, looking for new opportunities and adapting submissions to new consumer demands. We'll continue with our commitment to promoting the presence of Galicia in the most important trade fairs and the differentiation of our products through specific promotion campaigns. This thesis must strengthen the competitiveness of the Greek companies in this area, to which we will have to add the work of argumentation to achieve an equal framework in environmental, social and economic conditions vis-à-vis other countries, and the openness to the world to sustain and expand the internationalization of our production. For all of this there are two vital elements: the putting into force and the development of a proper planning and more economic support to carry it forward. I'm talking about a new conservation plan, which will see the light in a few weeks, and the economic approach of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, so that pears can be modernised, adapted and compete freely and firmly. But meeting the four productive areas won't consume all our strikes. We must make it clear that there are positive experiences that must serve as a basis for future bets and that there are also aspects that must continue to be shielded to ensure that firm future. We are convinced that the diversification and complementarity of the maritime economy that promote local fisheries action groups will help to benefit from new activities linked to marine tourism and the diversification of sea-related activities, deepening employment and economic opportunities. We will also continue to focus on research to enable Galicia to maintain the competitiveness of maritime-fishing activity, promoting research coordination developed by the centres of Galicia, in the case of Cetmar or the Marine Research Centre. In addition, nautical-fishing will continue to be the object of blundering towards the future, following the rollers of the 2016 budget increase, not forgetting support for other traditional but with a great future, such as that of the ramparts and the coastal carpenters. With regard to armoured matters, you will understand the honourable Members I am speaking of as those that lead us to the word security: food, that of human life in the sea and that of the marine environment in the face of pollution. With regard to food security, we will pay particular attention to the reinforcement of traceability, complementing the advances in the provision of more digital weighing points, labelling and document delivery, with the intensification of the tasks associated with the chain of control of the origin of the products of the sea. Moreover, the central stone of this system will remain the Intemar, which will continue to develop the programme of control of production zones, taking into account the proposals for the variation and expansion of European legislation on biotoxins and other harmful elements, and deepening the axicity and periodicity of the flow of information to the sector. With regard to the security of human life in the sea and the fight against pollution, we will advance in the provision of personnel and material resources for the Coast Guard Service, incorporating the use of new technologies in control and assistance at sea. We'll update the Camgal Plan one of the response pillars in front of marine pollution episodes. Knowers of the valley and of the need to have adequate port infrastructure, we will work to ensure that this line remains a constant in dedication and economic support, charting the master lines based on the approval of a port equipment plan, which will respond to the needs of logistics and service elements to ports and distances, and to the impulse of a dredging plan in autonomous ports. We will continue our efforts to simplify and adjust rates, and we will adapt to the new needs, such as the provision of spaces and means for marine waste collection, with special fincapé in those for discarded species, and we will have the improvement in the transition and integration of the city port, with an analysis of the reversal of spaces to the municipalities. To conclude, we will continue with the transfer to the private initiative of the promotion of new sports and recreational nautical installations, reserving for the Union the development of the empowerment of measures to attract the sport nautical and the equipping of docks for traditional boats. But the main bet that we want to renew and relaunch, that we want to reinforce by giving it an undeniable character, has to do with co-governance with the sector. We have, we must and we want to listen to the sector. That's how we always practice it, and we refer to it a year ago, we renew that spirit and take it to all the exits. The aim is that our sector has rules that do not distort the activity of mariners, mariners, and aquaculturers, so that their simplification results in a speeding up of the administration-sector relationship. We want and must update the regulatory and administrative framework in a simple way and in collaboration with the sector, giving it greater prominence. Among the first issues that we have already addressed, is the defense of a review of the requirements relating to the shop, the benefits of the reducing coefficients, and the revision and simplification of the basic regulations. To this end, we will continue to make the Galician Fisheries Council a tool that will serve to lay the groundwork for every decision in the maritime-fishing sector. That is why we refer here to the commitment to draw up an annual report, with concern, problems, targets and lines of action to improve our sector, bringing and debating also in this Parliament. This participation must be brought to the bodies of the European decision-making framework, defending their demands from the established channels, beginning with the advisory councils and ending with the support and argument for defence in the European Parliament and the Council. The roll that will lead us to 2020 also has clear challenges for Galician fishing. We, the administration and the sector, depend on whether we want to turn them into opportunities or threats. I'm talking about Brexit and the regulations related to the common fisheries policy, both in the disposal of discards and in relation to the part of technical measures and control. In both issues we have already started the joint work to follow up and add the arguments we can put on the table to get to good port in decision-making processes. In Brexit we have already confirmed a working group within the Galician Fisheries Council to analyze every step that the process is taking and to get to know and value those analyses that may be emanating from the charges made at the university, the MarinenLeg Institute, created in the wake of the Blue Growth of the Harbour Authority of Vigo, or any other nearer that may arise. In the case of discard elimination regulations, technical measures or control measures, in addition to those already unanimously approved within the Galego Fisheries Council, we will continue to detail the trilogues within the European framework, in order to try to avoid the rules moving away from our demands. We must therefore not forget that in the final period of this legislation we must begin the procedure for reviewing the common fisheries policy, which will again put on the right tables and opportunities for our fishing, and where we must be prepared again for Galicia to continue to have voice and to be heard. I finish, ladies and gentlemen, and I do so with the conviction that the review over the past eight years shows us that we have fulfilled the commissioned work and the course that was demanded of us, and that is why we should be given the responsibility to re-mark it. We know, by realists, that this is not an exclusive thing, but it generates the development of a key term in any kind of success: unity. That's why we want unity with Parliament to work on the lines that the sector demands, unity with the sector to work together and add arguments, unity of the sector to prevent anyone who just wants noise from distorting the course of a large majority who just wants to work and win the future. I have only one thing left before I'm done: thank you to the Council's own sector and staff for your work and dedication. That's why we have the basis for the survival of an eio without what Galicia would not understand as it is, because without the sea there is no Galicia. I'll be at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u39	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u40	Good day to all and all. Good morning, Counselor. Following the path that the rural councillor, who came here before you, come here to this Parliament to describe to us this "Galiza in the country of wonders", which exists only in the propaganda of the People's Party. What I'm asking is that you'll have to see the speech that you just issued here with the reality of our sea. I'm going to agree with one of the last questions you just said, and they've done the work commissioned in these two legislatures. And indeed, because the commissioned work was to diminish the capacity of our sea, of the Greek sea; the work that actually entrusted it with the great economic power, which is what it commands in the European Union and in the Spanish state, was to reduce the capacity of the Welsh fleet, and they did it enthusiastically; what they ordered and did enthusiastically was to deregulate, on the one hand, to allow the entry of foreign products without virtually checks, but on the other hand, to put all kinds of legal obstacles and all kinds of problems to the people of our sea; and the task was to allow the entry of industrial aquaculture to be taken into our country. And in those is still, Counselor. You also said that you always have a great interest in listening to the sector and that they always did. You've got a very clever way to do this, Mrs. Quintana! Just over a year ago they were camped for a hundred days before their councillors in the siege and had no one moment to approach. What happens is that you call it "dialogue with the sector"; I suppose you mean dialogue with those who tell you what you want to hear or who agree with the policies you put into practice. But that's not a dialogue with the sector, that's the policy of order and command, it's the policy of practising submission and listening to those you want. You came here to re-incidence on the lines exposed to your appearance to explain your board's budgets for this year 2017. And, well, I asked you at that time, after two legislations, Mrs. Quintana -- because you are responsible for the marine policies since 2009 -- about what was the situation in which the sector was left; if after two legislations you, making a balance, I could remove the chest as you are doing, or if really the data from those two laws gives for that optimism that you are showing here today. And questions as if the sector is better or worse, if there are people joining or leaving it, if there's generational renewal and if there's not, why, if you get decent income for the people of the sea, if the labelling is clear and favors our products or not, or if Galicia has more weight in fisheries, more decision-making and defence capacity in the sector. Obviously, by BNG the answer to most of these questions is negative. Since 2009, 30 Greek ships from the Grand Sun, Mrs. Quintana, 415 ships have been laid off in general; in the siege they started from 98 boats and went to 43; and the income of the seafarers is well below the minimum interprofessional wage, they do not reach the 500 euros gross, and in many cases they do not reach the 300 euros. I mean, these are data far from your speech, which is then not accompanied by the performances you carry out or by the budgets. The sector follows the same problems, to which you have given no solutions. I'm going to start with the Brexit theme, which you left so far at the end of your intervention. You said you had a study, and I'm going to make a little reference to the situation. He said that they would be attentive to everything that had been done, and I the first question I have to say to him is: besides being careful what was going on, what would you think if you had a proactive action and instead of waiting for others to move it to be the first step on the part of the Greek Government to move chips and claim the importance of the fishing sector for Galicia and to be prepared to negotiate directly and defend the interests of the sector? Because, look, in the Great Sun they make 57 ships, 800 Greek crewmen; that, yes, then on earth we can multiply by at least four people living in this barn. And here we have to add that there are 140 ships of capital in Greece, too, but with English, French and Irish flags. And why are these Italian capital ships bannered with other nationalities? Because they didn't give them another remedy. The shipowners had to take their lives and banner these states because, of course, they had no fishing capacity. And it turns out that after bannering there's more than fourteen thousand tons of rappel that go up every year, whereas those who are with the Welsh flag find that they don't have that ability to fish, and after bannering in those states it turns out that they have the product left. Something is wrong — I suppose you will admit, Mrs. Quintana — when it turns out that Galicia, a nation highly dependent on fishing, does not have those quotas to fish, and it turns out that they have to go bannering other countries in order to do so. Then comes the People's Party with the speech that Galicia is dependent on, with the speech that Galicia gives us more than we put on the table, that Galicia's contribution to the tax balances and the bills is small, and then we receive from the charity of the state. The reality is that if all these ships, for example, were supposed to be in Galicia and all that they produce in Galicia — for example, I say, in addition to many other matters — the story would be different. Or that, for example, there are a number of sailors who have to be busy in French Social Security, who have given them a small solution for those who are about to retire but not for the others. Then they count as they don't tax in Galicia and then we're dependent on receiving pensions. Do you realize what the accounts you make when you say how much Galicia provides?, what is Galicia's ability to produce?, what is Galicia's ability to generate wealth? Well, to these ships I referred to, we would have to add those in the Malvinas, Counselor, which also depend on the territory of the United Kingdom. And there are ships based in the Sea or based in Vigo, because there may be more than a thousand crewmen. So, in that context, what kind of agreement will the European Union negotiate with the United Kingdom? Will the Malvinas, for example, be part of that agreement or will they go as an a posteriori annex? How will trafficking in persons, goods be regulated? I mean, all of this, you're just gonna be waiting for the steps that are going to take or are going to be ahead, you're going to plant yourself in Madrid and say that you can't go through the Welsh fishing again what happened with the accession of the Spanish state — in which Galicia was, of course, in the lot — which was a real ruin to the sea sector in our country? Will you keep your arms crossed? Will you allow this problem now to become an opportunity? And I can agree with you, we can make it an opportunity. But we can turn it into an opportunity if you really as the highest representative of the Government of Greece are willing to crash on the table and exercise and demand the historic rights of our fishing into waters of the United Kingdom; if you are willing to make this negotiation of the European Union not become a real disaster for the Greek sea; if you are willing to have Galicia, as a nation highly dependent on fishing, use that weight, because for the United Kingdom they only work 12,000 people from the sea, but for Galicia it is fundamental. And, of course, I hope, I ask and demand that they do not allow Galicia and the Greek Sea to return to be the currency of exchange in the interests of other European Union states, for which fishing is not fundamental, and to enforce their rights. I can still tell you about the evaluation of your management, Counselor. You gave him the bite of the mouth of Andalusia. As head of the General Secretariat of the Sea the Andalusian Carlos Domínguez, with that excuse that for several years there had not entered the mouth in the rivers of Galicia, it allowed him, gave him that everything in Andalusia, in the south, with which now, with a system of distribution based on historical ones, Galicia in those years has no historical quota. And now you find that you have to negotiate with Andalusia that they leave us, if your mouth enters the Galician river, you catch it, because it turns out that Andalusia has adjudicated ninety-eight and I peak at one percent and Galicia just over one percent. So, that wonderful management in the mouth makes at this moment the Galician fleet has no quota and that you have to beg you for Andalusia, because you allowed that to be so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u42	Just as it allows Madrid and other communities to impose their criteria on matters such as inland water, where Galicia has tremendously full competence. He could continue to talk about handicraft fishing, which for the first time in history last year the way had quotas, 175 tons, which then passed to 200, and that this year on 3 March, the Ministry publishes a new resolution which affects 175 tons in its own way, when it is in inland waters. And you allow them to impose quotas on you when I wouldn't have to let anyone send or decide on ours...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u44	...—Finished, Mr President.— In short, Counselor, you here today described "Galiza in the country of wonders" and what she didn't talk about was the real problems of the sector. Real problems — which I will follow — like I've just told you what's going to happen with Brexit, artisanal fishing, the mouthpiece, the minor arts, the shore trawl or aquaculture, or what's the exception...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u46	...or the work of the seamstresses. I wait for you to enter those details...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u48	...in his other intervention, if I don't follow after. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today, the general lines of the Sea Council come here, there's no doubt that it's a good time to talk about fishing rights, about scarce fishing opportunities, because, as always, when we talk about quotas, we talk about much more than percentages, tons, we talk about people, entire lives that depend economically on fishing; their economy, that of their families, the economy of the whole town depends on fishing. And they tell us what they're talking about and they're listening to the sector. For it is well heard because the 2013 Order establishing the Plan of Management for the ships of the Cantabrico-Northwest National Calendar has been the object of appeal before the Supreme Court, the one of 2014 equal and the one of 2015 admitted to the proceedings by the National Audience. These orders generate great inequalities: to some, to others, to others, to others. Article 17 of the Law of Regulation 1380/2013 on common fisheries policy sets out criteria for the allocation of fishing opportunities for Member States, and indicates that transparent and objective criteria, including those of an environmental, social and economic nature, shall be applied. He's also talking about the historical criterion. However, it does not establish what the relative weight of each criterion should be. Galicia's historical criterion prejudices it, and in general Spain, for the reference period in which there was overfishing. But also because the weight given to the historical criterion is excessive. This is a demand that is tired of repeating the sector. They listen to you, because this is a demand that repeats year after year: insufficient amounts, review of the historical criterion. Cuts in quotas, amounts that are below the capabilities, have very negative consequences for the people and families that depend on them. These situations worsen even more with improvised closures. They prevent programming, making investments, making contracts. In fishing activities, as in all business activities, certain programming is needed. The assigned amounts cannot cover the costs of the vessels. Sometimes you can't even cover the fixed expenses, which you get into a debt situation that leads to the end to a single end, at the end of the activity. This is what is demanded: to be able to work. Because they made investments, because for these investments, they had to be indebted. And the assigned amounts are insufficient. This is the reality: a political decision that affects people, which affects indebted families who do not generate enough income to meet their obligations. Do you realize the importance of wanting and not being able to make a political decision? How long have you been demanding to check the assigned amounts of garden and swear it in the Cantabrian northwest? Is it normal that they don't fish 1,000 tons of garden and 6,000 tons of interest and that the ships here are going through trouble? It's not quite normal. But less yet, knowing that this happens every year, Galicia is always scarce. How much have you been asked to check the mouth rate for 9A? A 1.14 is not enough, it has already been brought here. They always vote against it and say it's for their own good. But as of today, the amount allocated for the 9A zone has been exhausted. In a quarter, the amount that could be fished in a year, in an abundant resource, was exhausted, a wealth that would be lost. It's a demand from the sector that doesn't respond because there's no political will. We want to insist on this. There is recourse, the sector is demanding, the quantities are insufficient and therefore — and this is very important — income is insufficient and, consequently, serious economic difficulties — in some cases, ruin. This situation not only affects the sea, it affects all the businesses of the coastal villages. If you get to the sea, to the supermarket, stop the shops, to the hostel. Everything for when to sea. Now we have a new situation that arose after the UK referendum last June 23rd last year, which is a subject that is causing great uncertainty not only in fisheries but in the political, economic and social fields. It is true, therefore, that it is hoped that much of the Government's efforts will be focused on achieving the greatest number of opportunities in the face of threats that may arise. Within the opportunities, there is a review of the principle of relative stability. This is how the fishing sector perceives itself. The truth is that the United Kingdom, with a 15% share, has 12% of production, while Spain, with a 7%, has a 25% of fishing capacity. It seems clear that the revision of the principle of relative stability looks like an opportunity. There are also threats, like, for example, the German shipowners with the British flag. We need to know what's going on with those boats. I remembered Mrs. Prado. Let's not forget they're there because there's not enough here. With regard to exports and imports from Greece, the United Kingdom is an important destination for our exports. And imports are also important. What's going on with the tariffs? Finally, are we still competitive? As we said, this situation has its origin nine months ago, nine months ago, in which this series of uncertainties was opened to Galicia. And we must not forget that the Counsellor is here today and that it is therefore crucial that efforts are aimed at achieving the greatest number of opportunities for Galicia in the face of possible threats. We would therefore ask you to play an active role, but, above all, that fishing ceases to be currency exchange, which is being treated as it really should, with the specific weight it must have given to the large number of people who are economically dependent on fishing. I'd also like to talk about the seafood situation, especially the work situation of workers and workers. We're currently talking about seamstresses working to get rents of 750-800 euros in many cases. The production system in the primary sector clearly harms the original producers, in this case the seafarers and seafarers. The price on the product side is clearly lower than the final price of the sale, remaining the largest turnover of the process in the hands of the intermediaries. It is necessary to deal with the problem of prices in a long-term perspective, because if the limitation continues to affect it in this way, we will be assuming the possible consequences of an over-exploitation problem, which will result in loss of quality and quantity of the product in the medium term. It is indisputable that the work of the workers of the Marquesian takes place in aggressive conditions for health, so we believe that it is necessary to study new forms of taxation to facilitate better adaptation to the labour market, to study adjustments of retirement age or recognition of incapacitating diseases, to avoid having to attend terrible and sad situations, such as that of a seamstress in the Pontevedra River who is forced to continue working after cancer and who is 59 years old has difficulty in his ability to work and to develop his daily work. This is the reality of the people who work at sea. [[Applause]] Toxins and biological arrests, of course, are one of the serious problems facing the sector. We can't be reactive on this subject, but proactive. We must go ahead and design more and better ways to cope with the problems of the toxins and anticipate them. Regarding the healing of rivers, the European Union has repeatedly warned our country of sanctions for the state of conservation of rivers, taking into account the complaints of the seafarers' groups. In 2013, a visit by European representatives issued a very hard report on this situation which the Union itself, at first, wanted to underestimate. At the end of 2016, the European Commission asked the European Union High Court of Justice for a penalty for Spain for the poor treatment of urban waste, in which points marked in Galicia were found. These warnings and demands for sanctions show that the situation is serious. The stream of Pontevedra is the one which remains closed for the Marishcane more days a year, in which the situation of Ence has much to do with, so the environmental situation is essential for the Marishe. And the European Union constantly supports us. Although the work of researchers from autonomic centers — as far as research is concerned — is good, it is essential to strengthen their role. And this is done with investments — which were not significantly in the budgets this year, despite the fact that we are alerting it from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. R & D+i will contribute to better work on prevention and innovative capacity for new forms of cultivation, use and optimization of resources. Finally, I would like to say — something important — that the current management of the Sea Council is characterized by constantly facing complex conflicts with the sector. The clearest example was the Aquaculture Law, which the Government had to put back at its own time and now intends to re-implement, without renouncing its original ideas, despite the rejection of the sector and that it constituted an overwhelming political defeat by the advisor and President Feijóo, who was defending its application. It is necessary to consent, to take advantage of synergies and not to facilitate conflicts with the creation of tayphistic kingdoms that are shown as faithful followers of self-government policy, supported by the Council. The confrontation does not produce wealth or benefit for the workers. Finally, just two ideas in summary mode. In fishing, I stress: insufficient amounts that do not allow for sufficient income, with Brexit an effort must be made to ensure that fishing involves the greatest number of opportunities, which are not currency exchange. And in the shellfish, the lamentable state of our laughs and the working conditions, which do not seem to belong to this century. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the story of the Maricadores, the sailors, their families, their mothers, daughters, brothers, is the story of a struggle, a heroic struggle that represents the combative spirit of our people, of the Greek people, of their struggle for surviving with the strength of their hands, sacrifice and labor. All of us here today remember citizen movements, popular movements, like Never More, a mobilization that united the whole of Galician society in a single voice to demand responsibilities against the evil management that was done with the Prestige accident in 2002. The demonstration in Santiago de Compostela, to which more than 200,000 people came, and which reminds us that it took place a little more than a year ago, also in defense of the sea, was a pride that reminded us that our people are united when needed. Many of us have recorded in our retinas that legion of volunteers and volunteers who came to clear our beaches full of hatote, or the image of our sailors — without going further, my brothers — by collecting oil with their own hands so that it hadn't entered the creeks. Real heroic acts that remind us that the struggle represents the spirit needed to achieve a more just society. Unfortunately, history also shows us that rulers are not always at the time. Yes, Counselor, you haven't been back then, you're still out of your mind or waiting for them. The Greek Sea sector is not in a good situation and knows it. In fifteen years more than 10,000 jobs were lost directly to the sea in Galicia, representing a 32 per cent drop; or, in other words, 1 out of every 3 sea related jobs has disappeared since 2001. More than 300 uncontrolled spills are currently registered in the Galician rivers. This causes the production of fish and seafood to diminish in a worrying way. If in 2008 more than 5 million kilograms of Berberecho were collected in the Welsh rivers, in 2016 it was just over 2 million. And in the case of the thin plum, in 2008 it was 780,000 kilograms and 380,000 kilograms in 2016. Not to mention the sardine too, which went from 15 million in 2008 to just over 4 million in 2016. Tell us, really, does this evolution seem positive? Say what he says, we know you know it's not. Don't try to sell as a success something that's a drama. Our sea needs effective measures. We'll list some as necessary as concrete. For example, first of all, public policies for the sanitation of rivers. We see the state of so much concern in which all the rivers of Greece are found. Above all, we were able to verify, with the help of information from different citizen platforms for defense of the Welsh rivers, such as the cases of Ferrol, Burgo, Coruña, Pontevedra, Plademar by the creek of Walls and Noia — which are very worrying cases — the lamentable state of our rivers. Let us no longer say the case of the fines of the European Union in the rivers of Vigo or Ribeira, and which included the Town Hall of Santiago, which rise to 46.5 million because of the lack of proper treatment of waste, to the extent that the neighbors cannot even live, with unbearable smells, as the neighbors of Ribeira have denounced. This destroys productive resources, damages the environment and affects the health of people living in those areas. A second measure is a proper follow-up to maritime rescue services. Our colleague, Lidia Senra, on 7 March, urged the European Commission to follow up on the shortcomings of the state's maritime rescue system, including Galicia, in the Eurocamera, for the doubts that lead to the sinking of the seinefand 1 fishery from a German shipowner. They worry about us because if another accident like Prestige happened today, how would you manage, Counselor? Are we ready? We'd like him to answer us. A third measure is a fair quota distribution system, not just a number of quotas, as you said here. First of all, we would like to ask you, moreover, whether you have analysed and therefore planned to do what — although you have quoted it — whether the entry into force of Brexit affects a part of the Greek fleet fishing in waters of the United Kingdom. And secondly, if you're going to continue without defending a fair division of quotas based on the number of sailors aboard each vessel instead of in the historians, as you've been claiming the siegeers, like those of Acerga, who showed the solidarity, good management and humanity that you missed when you were forced to camp in San Caetano to listen to them. And even so, it seems that the courts will end up giving them a reason that you denied them. He's not happy to divide the fence, he's decided to divide the mariners of minor arts by dividing their quotas by provinces. So while they're divided and tense between them, you can dedicate yourself to making the policy that you like with the multinationals of aquaculture; that is, they're still expanding what we've come to call this week's plot. The sector is also being questioned how you might negotiate with the Ministry in Madrid the new allocation of quotas for 2017 and there are no 6000 tonnes, for example, of interest. They wonder how they didn't exist and why they didn't fight, if the quota is badly distributed -- because, if not, there's no explanation for surplus -- for that quota to come here and for the ships and seamen of Greece. A fourth measure is a clear and direct bet to boost artisanal fishing against industrial fishing and large aquatic multinationals. The problem with this last proposal is that your model, the model that you defend, is a model that directly affects the interests and needs of our people, which is that of industrial fishing and the aquaculture model. Yes, Counsellor, we said this because just a year ago the Galician Union — in particular you — had the courage to give our sailors a pulse. The sadly famous Preview of Galician Aquaculture Law represented the legal framework needed to privatize our rivers. But he met with direct opposition from the sector, from the research community and from the Greek society. The hopes of the People's Party for selling our laughs to the great multinationals were confronted by another popular movement that forced them to retreat, more by such close Greek elections. But, as we all knew, they wouldn't give up. And with the highly elevated ego with its absolute majority, very emboldened, Counselor, they try to implant what they wanted with the so-called bill, which now they want to do it progressively, little by little, through the back door so it doesn't seem to notice it. In fact, in Commission 8 we asked one of its general directors more than a week ago about Order 37 of 22 February, which has just published the Board, so that aid for aquaculture production is regulated, and in which the intention of the German Government is demonstrated to continue on the path of an aquatic model which has been massively rejected by the sector. Since the director general didn't really answer us about his model in this matter, I'm going to explain it to you, because some of the strategic lines of the late Galician Aquaculture Act seem to be confirmed, which In Tide rejects frontally. In this order, we find several considerations that show a strong commitment to industrial aquaculture, which is detrimental to the environment and to traditional methods of production in Greece. You tell me, Counselor, if this seems like a good bet or a sustainable aquatic model, what takes this order. And we're not talking about berbecto or plum or mussel, which should investigate more about the toxin and clean up the laughs so they can be productive, and not just with the extension of the concessions. Of course, in the En Marea group we believe that betting for an aquatic production that pushes the production of biofuels, cosmetics, or I think for other fish that is very sustainable the truth that we don't think it is. The problem is that you, gentlemen of the People's Party, as good vassals of the powerful, try to give the image that we live very well, that everything goes well, that in Galicia everything goes superbly, the same area of the sea. But you know it's not true. The people in the sector are sad, they're desolate, they're dumb, they're low... yes, Counselor, because, unfortunately, my family has lived all their lives from the sea and they're still living from the sea. And that's what Mr. Feijóo says that the crisis was very positive... would be good for you, but for us and the sector it was rather harmful. Think of the day after day of those people who must rise every morning cold, hot, suny, windy, rainy, hard jobs where they risk their lives to feed their family. They're still the heroes and heroes of our day. It's not good, Counselor, to say that a seamstress earns more than you, it's not good, because it's a lie and, besides, it's a disrespect. Mrs. Quintana, your turns to visit the Galician confrereries more than to explain the true intentions seem like visits with a marked propagandistic character, because you didn't do them when you had to explain the draft aquaculture law, and you know it. He's just used those meetings to campaign towards the elections of Galicia with people like the president of the Federation of Galician Brotherhood, Tomás Fajardo, which is from my people, which we all know, that after losing a question of trust he didn't have the dignity to resign even you. And why? Because he's a person who is submissive, useful and obedient to the Council, for that reason. Now they repeat the game, and instead of ruling, they also focus on campaigning for municipalities. And here in Parliament we know that they are opposed to the opposition, to the municipalities, to us, no matter what color Santiago, Ferrol, The Coruña, Vigo, Pontevedra... and this focuses on all their activity. So, finally, I'll tell you to work, Counselor, to work for the sector, the sea, which represents one of the basic pillars of our society, our country, and stop looking elsewhere. And never say again that sailors protest because some people prefer to walk with signs instead of working, because it's a lie and it's a disrespect. Look at their eyes and hands, think of what their day is like every day they go out into the sea and feel more pressured to be fined than to be able to fish, at the same time that, when they come to their homes and turn on television, they come as undesirable as Urdangarin, Blessing or Mouse does not power the chain after stealing and looting the country in their worst years of the crisis. I don't bet on multinationals, Counselor, for a lot of business they promise you. I bet by our sailors and sailors who work days and nights in our sea and the world ahead, bet on them because they represent the true future for Galicia. Defend them for what they have been, are and will be. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. López Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u54	President, fellow Members, today is World Poetry Day, and it is poetry in the Galician Parliament, and poetry is compatible with the debate. That's why he comes to the line of the Council of the Sea a poet from Outes, Francisco Anón, who, struggling a little against papalism when we felt ourselves possessors of truth and bearers of science, made a little poetry in front of the Tower of Hercules, a sign of many fishermen. He said, "There are those who say that a thousand years ago the Phoenicians did it, / there are also some indications that it is the work of the Romans, / only since profane history in affirming very light. Doubts come out, Augustus, says: who did it? The cellars." [[Applause]] Having said this, it's also World Day of Happiness, but I don't think it's a good day. Because I, listening to the spokesmen of the other groups, see a certain bitterness, a bitter latent. [[Laughter]] I'm happy because I'm originally a village, I'm a Greek village on the shore of the sea. And today you can see here that the rural environment and the marine environment has a future. As a German German, as a seaman, I feel very happy on World Happiness Day. [[Applause]] Hello, Counselor, come here today to inform us of the general lines of action of your advisor. He also made a brief summary of the eight years that have passed and the ones that corresponded to him coordinate that council. Thank you for that extensive information. As you can see, he did not have the same degree of acceptance on all benches. The truth is, in some cases, the pleasure was very little. In opposition groups a sensitive disagreement was appreciated and even disagreed, something you must be doing well in the face of that disgust. Rejoice in your grief, which is our happiness. We, the people of the People's Party, enjoyed it, enjoyed it very much. We can see that we are on our way, in the right way, to develop all the potentials of the sea and its people. But apart from that aspect of pleasure or disapproval of this Parliament, according to or disagree with the data shown here, I want to make a little reflection on what we are dealing with. And I'd ask them to listen to me for a little bit, because I'm going to make a personal reflection, but it's important. We're dealing with the activity of men and women who are engaged in extracting products from the sea. This human activity of fishing, of shellfish, of aquaculture, brings together for me the characteristics that make it enter the field of art, not of art of the way neither of the art of the network nor of the art of the long term, of art with capitals, of human activity subjected to a series of observations that can be contrasted and can be seen, with characteristics that make it similar to painting, sculpture or we could almost say that to ballet. And the people who do this could qualify them as artists. This activity aims to take out of the sea the resource that will trigger a series of other activities that will create a social fabric, an industrial fabric, an economic fabric that will finally give life to an important part of the population. Marketing, conservation, coastal carpentry, training, etc. will be activities that will give occupation to many Greeks and Greeks. Returning to this qualification of artists, it is precisely that condition to which fishermen and fishermen, seafooders and seafooders, into a human group of very defined characteristics, men and women with great personality, men and women with a strong character, endowed with an antidote against frustration, with an enormous capacity of self-esteem and, above all, with a zeal and perseverance that makes them unique when they pose and claim their requests. Those qualities and abilities became a complex and sometimes uncomfortable collective from the point of view of a government's political action. She's a counselor where you see her work and that of her team, in the management of these eight years that have been promoting the reach of the expectations of these men and women of the sea. The Council's work, and his work and his team's, was to order the activity of fishing and fishing. I repeat: order the activity of fishing and fishing. And in that work you were beside them, in tune with them, making them feel more protagonists and less passive subjects. Aristotle used to say something like that of philosophers: "There is nothing in the intelligence that hasn't passed by the senses before." You need to have a concept in the very deep mind of the sea and the people of the sea to manage them, and there, counselor, you'll see the people of the sea, listen to the people of the sea, touch the products of the sea, talk to the people of the sea. And so he opened the doors of a sustainable, competitive activity, exercised by satisfied and proud Greeks and Greeks of their social importance, of their economic importance and, above all, with the pride of being part of the sea of Galicia. That ordination was and will continue to be the objective of the Council and of you, who presides over it. And that arrangement was and will be the result of great consensus rather than tough decisions. That political action you've developed with your team brings you here today to present contrastable data and executable projects. The work of the Council of the Sea had as fundamental characteristics those which our president mentioned here: loyalty, legality and common sentiment. Of course, in view of that work, the others, socialists and nationalists, were not still. But his political action was more focused on demonstrating a capable ability to generate conflict and a studied strategy of worrisome action. And these different ways of working where they took us to and from each other? Well, if we take as a barometer, as a thermometer, or as a meter the acceptance of the different options between citizens of Galicia, I did look by chance at the results of the autonomous elections from Ribadeo to Guarda. And really, in all of them, the majority option in votes, with a lot of difference, was for the People's Party. I know this doesn't really like us talking about it, but this is a reality. But after these reflections on the work done so far and the proposals for the future that you have brought to us in this audience, I want to strengthen my intervention with some more specific data. Because, Madam Speakers of the Opposition, in addition to all that you said you had not done, in addition to all that you said if you had done wrong, this advisor, this Counsellor, made it happen from a fresh fish billing of EUR 329,579,199 in 2009 to EUR 491,664,064 in 2016. Yes, yes, not Bipartite. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And of course, yes, yes, this is comparative politics. This is a comparative policy. In recent years quotas have increased by 40% and the value of fishing by 117%. In 2016 it increased by 20% in volume, which led to 76 million euros more for Galicia. And the year 2016 — this remains recorded — in 2016, the best price of the last 20 years, with 491 million euros. They say it wasn't much for the shellfish. Eight million square meters have been recovered from shellfish areas, the bat concessions have been zeroed out, which has already been discussed here. But for there to be a future at sea, there must be people who continue their activity, and that is evident in the 50% increase since 2009 in the enrolment of nautical-fishing schools, at the Galego Institute of Training and in aquaculture. The launch of the GAC — the advisor — of the coastal action groups, with 429 projects, an investment of 25.2 million euros and the creation of 250 new jobs speak for themselves. I know this is hard to understand. Being, of course, of a Galician marine council, it's easy to see and, if not, to ask their mayors, whether they're socialists, whether they're from the Block, whether they're from the tide or whether they're from the PP. The result of these GAC programs -- which are now the LAGs, local action groups in the fisheries sector -- is that with 99 projects already approved and 6 million euro invested continue to develop their activity on the blue coast of Galicia. The fight against theft. I know it's not a subject that really likes this about fighting robbery, when, at times, perhaps, at last, our lukewarm action... but the fight against theft is very important, both with regard to the materialization of prohibiting it and with regard to including in the Criminal Code the criminal criterion when it comes to recidivism. There are important aspects. The unanimous adoption by the Galician Fisheries Council of a Galician dictatorship for the reform of the common fisheries policy is an important milestone in being tailed in the sector. The dispersals - that someone here has spoken of displacements and casualties of the fleet - have come down with respect to the Bipartite. From 2005 to 2008, 538, 134 per year disappeared. From 2009 to 2016 423.53 per year disappeared. The numbers are clear; that is, from 134 per year in the Bipartite to 53 per year with the People's Party. In the internal division of quotas, we have more than 87% in the drag and, in the siege, we have from 21% to 26% in the yard. We have almost 44% of the quota of the three zones with 98% in zone IXa. So far here a brief hint of what has been in the past few years. For the legislation that now begins and in which we find ourselves, those of the People's Party, advisors, we liked to hear you talk about priorities: to increase the added value of the sea product, to improve marketing and to increase the number of permits for seafood, to reduce the decline of sea workers. We also liked, and very much, the people of the People's Party heard him talk about challenges...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u56	...to go from the hands of the central government to increase quotas, to take advantage of Brexit to receive the debate of relative stability, to support the generational relief, to encourage research and training, to strengthen the relationship with third countries where we fish, to keep Galicia in the first aquatic position and to achieve the integral sanitation of the rivers with the environment. We liked it too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u57	Thank you. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u58	I'm done. In the reply I will be able to continue giving some arguments, if the debate does not change by other defeats.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u59	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo. Replica. Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, if my head doesn't fail, today is March 21, 2017, not March 21, 2009. I say so, because Mrs. Prado began her speech saying that I had just described Galicia as the country of wonders. I come here to describe reality, and, when I speak, I speak with data, and the data I refer to are data that can be consulted from the Technology Platform for Fisheries -- available on the Internet for everyone around the world -- as in the ISM log data, as in the school enrolment data, as in the general data we're handling every day. And of course, when you come to tell certain films, the truth is, I don't know if someone got anchored in March 2009 and wasn't able to overcome the electoral defeats that came year after year. Because here you say things and you stay so quiet and so delighted. [[Applause]] It says, for example, that we have 44 siege boats, Mrs. Prado, 44 siege boats! Well, look, I'm telling you we have 148. Yes, it is quite true that during the Bipartisan Government 24 siege ships have been lost, but today we have 148 siege ships. Last year it increased by 1 in length and by GT and 4 new ships were built. Of course, when a fishing capacity loss talk has to believe it with data, and the data tell us that from 2005 to 2009, 44% of fishing opportunities have been lost, and the data tell us that since 2012 fishing opportunities have been increased. And if we refer to the specific case of the siege, I tell you that, in the particular case of the siege, fishing opportunities were increased by 51%. And as my colleague from the People's Parliamentary Group well said last year - we have just presented the data in a report from the Council of the European Union, which I think would be enough to carry real data - it has been the best historical data since records have been made, i.e. since 1997. The value of the billing of our fish and our seafood has reached the figure of 491 million euros - historical data -. No other year in which those values were obtained. [[Applause]] And you are determined to say that you want to bet on the sea, but every day you strive to lighten the work of the vast amount of professionals who come out to sea every day and bring resources to the earth; good resources in quality. And we're also improving your marketing capacity, because it's done at a data level: the bass fleet last year increased its downloads by 25%, but more importantly, it increased the value of those downloads by 45%. So, as much as you try to say that the thing goes wrong, in the fishing sector things are getting better every year, and they're going to continue on that line, because in that line we're all working. [[Applause]] Here they say there's no generational relief. Look, it turns out that enrolment in schools increased by 46% and in Igafa the enrolment increased by 50%. It's that this is the first year, the year 2016, where we have positive data from the new affiliates to the special regime of the sea, is that the Marishers when they went home was in the time of the Bipartite, who marched home 800 people. We've had positive data on increases in shellfishers for two years. In the last three months of this year, 105 new people have entered the permit on foot. You see, when you talk to me about the classification of production areas, we've improved over 872 square kilometers in microbiological classification, we've improved over 501 bats in its microbiological classification. What did you do when you were given the opportunity to rule? They spent 58 million euros on paying people a salary for not going to work. What did you get with those 58 million euros? That the unproductive areas, which degraded the areas, which had those seafarers who, because they were in certain confrereries, could charge, but others, in the same situation, could not charge. As long as we arrive, the deal is equal for everyone. He's been working with the Environment to modify the microbiological classification of production areas and has increased production areas by more than eight million square meters this past year. Look, if there's something I'd like you to clarify to me, please: what should I do?, talk to the sector or get locked up in the office? If I go out and talk to the sector, I'm told that I'm campaigning; if I'm not talking to the sector, I'm telling me that I'm dictatorial and that I'm saying the rules without talking to the sector. Never — on May 7, 2017, I've been working in this sector for 30 years in different positions in the administration — have done nothing against the sector; all my work has focused on getting more and better professionals in our sector every day. [[Applause]] Someone will have to justify a lot of things, but it won't be me. I, when I make a mistake, I apologize to you, but here I still need someone to apologize because at one point they wanted to prevent the women from having access to social security. At a certain point, they pulled the marshmallows out of the street. [[Applause]] If at that time we would accept that pressure, today the seamstresses wouldn't have the right to have their pension, as any worker has the right in this country; today the seamstresses wouldn't have the right to take a fall when they're sick; today many things wouldn't have happened if some of them had won. But look, it bothers me when it comes to "the dead aquaculture law." For something to die, he had to be born. And we were doing the same thing we did every day when we got up to work. We have made a draft aquaculture law; draft which has been handed over to the sector to debate it with them, to agree with them, and we have committed ourselves from the minute we would not do anything against the sector. There were those who were determined to say, "No, no, this isn't a draft, it's a preliminary draft." No, no, this isn't a law, it's a draft. They define themselves, they define themselves. When the sector went out on the street on February 27, 2016, I knew that this bill wouldn't see the light if it wasn't with the consensus of the sector. It bothers me very much that here I come to say that I defend the intensive aquaculture of the great multinationals. Do you know by any chance, before I came here to talk, how many beats were sold in 2015? 500 bats. Are those bats in the hands of Pescanova or some other multinational? No, they're in the hands of mitigators, children, genders or private people who are familiar with those who had them at that time on exploitation. Do you really know what they're talking about? Do you really know that seamstresses have been doing aquaculture work since 1995 and simply because they don't have that name, can't you take advantage of the help the boatmen are taking advantage of? Can anyone tell me that I'm against the development of the battery sector when in 2008 we presented ourselves to the elections and we took in our electoral program that if we arrived at the Government we would put the counters to zero when those who were ruling at that time said that this was impossible and that all concessions to the public contest would be removed? I don't know if you had anything to do with the multinationals; we, of course, don't. We did what we said, we put the counters to zero for thirty years, and now in the Measurements Act we just said that the bats could have a maximum duration of 50 years. That, if it's not to support the drummer sector, someone will come and explain it to me. Where are the multinationals here? Who could tell the sailors that we were going to sell the beaches to the Chinese? Who could tell them that we were going to privatize the sea? [[Applause]] If the sea is operated directly through authorizations or concessions! They're in private hands, but they're in the hands of Pepe, Manolo, Juan, Juana, all those who go down to the beaches every day. All we wanted was to give him legal security, and here neither before, nor now, nor then I'll say the opposite. There will be legislation that gives legal security and stability to the aquaculture sector always with the consensus of the sector. I won't make an aquaculture law or you'll never make a proposal to make an aquaculture law like the one that's just been done in Valencia, for example, where they say they only bet on aquaculture that doesn't degrade funds. What are we going to suppress, the 3,500 bats we have in Galicia? No, no, no, no. Is it a sustainable aquaculture that develops in bats? Yes. Did you defend this government? Yes. Did you defend it with the support of the People's Group? You too. Others don't know where they will be, but I'll be where I have to be, defending every day greater fishing possibilities, I've got him accredited, and you can see in all the statistical records, improving our marketing chain. This year we get it, and I hope 2017 is even bigger than 2016. And at Brexit, like anyone can tell me I'm on crossarms? The next day that the United Kingdom had expressed its decision to leave the European Union, the next day, the one who spoke to them and all his team had asked for a report to consider all the points that we should take into account when we sit and negotiate with the United Kingdom. We've analyzed everything. We are the only region in the whole of the European Union, except for Brittany, which has a similar report but only from a socio-economic point of view... we have it from every perspective, so that we can argue with our negotiators. And we don't stop there, we keep working, and we'll see that they're still evaluating all the possibilities that can be discerned in the Brexit case. We are within the European Union. The negotiators will be the negotiators of the European Union, but they will certainly have the argument that the fisheries sector is not used as currency, as it was used at the time that Spain entered the European Union, and I remind you that at that time the People's Party in Spain did not rule. We are quite clear that without the sea there is no Galicia, and that's why we get up every day to work and defend our sector. The data I gave in the first intervention I think they're coming up with, and no one will ever hear me give a fake data, because mine is not lying, mine is not taking people out on the street, mine is working with each and every one of the different representatives of the different sectors and subsectors of the sea-industry chain, because to me they're all important, they all give more value and they all contribute to making a bigger Galicia. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u61	Thank you, Counselor. Round of clarifications. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u62	Ovation closed! Your management can't... miss you anymore, Counselor! Today I know it is the day of poetry and many other things, and I, instead of reading poetry, will make reference to something that the Great Castle has already said: that the sardines would come back if the governments wanted, yes, I think, if you want to understand, you understand it perfectly, Counselor. Look, you may be very upset. And it seems like a lie to say that some of us are anchored in 2009. It's just that those who can't look at the mirror and realize that he's got two ruling laws, it's the People's Party, that he's not able to analyze what he's done in two legislations, and he's got to keep saying what's done in 2009. They've been ruling this country all their lives, all their lives, and you're responsible, taking out a period of nothing! Man, for God's sake! For good and for bad, you are responsible for the situation; and you are mostly. [[Applause]] Then it's all right. He said he was very upset that we came here to say certain things. Look, the BNG is also very upset that, instead of exercising Galician government, you exercise a simple management, allowing others to decide what to do with our fishing and what to do in our sea. What bothers us very much at the BNG is that in eight years, with two legislations, Counsellor, they have not achieved a single more competition than Madrid in order to exercise directly the rights of our sea; nor one more competition, despite the fact that initiatives have been adopted in this Parliament, several of them the BNG proposal, to demand transfers. They didn't achieve a single, oceanographic research, nor in ports of general interest, nor in marine rescue, nor in safety and combat against maritime pollution. BNG is also more upset that you don't want to exercise the government of this country, that you don't want to have powers, that you cross your arms, and that then you say that the fault is that in Madrid you don't let it, that in Brussels you don't leave it, or that I don't know what else. Look, it turns out that, in the face of our disappointment, your happiness, Mr. People's Party deputy. For nothing, you're still happy! Do you know...? By the way, I was wrong before. When I made reference to the 89 and 43 were drags. I suppose anyone who knows the data... It was obviously a mess. Well, do you know there are ships without quota? You know there are ships without quota, don't you? Do you think you can live without quota? Who, without having helped any quota, having to walk on the carpet, who with that can be happy? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But nothing, you're still happy! Look, Mrs. Counselor promised in 2009 that she was going to dignify the incomes of the seamstresses, which would increase the permex, which would reach 9,000, and I don't know how many more things. Yes, that's in writing. Well, what is the data today, Counselor? What is the data from the shellfish sector in our country? You said in the budget appearance that the average was 7,500 euros per maricador - the average, gross -. That gives --nets -- quite less than half 500 euros, and there are some that don't get to it. Do you think that's to get out here and be happy? Would you live with an income of less than 500 euros? For nothing, remain happy and happy, which, total, why?Oh, my God! It's fantastic! Look, the recovery of seafood banks, the regeneration of the rivers... the other day, on the Public Radio Galega, you had the undoubted to say that, for example, the recovery of the Burgo's hive that it was, that it was a commitment and that it was such and that it was late, but, of course, there was a year when the Government of Madrid was in office. Yes, but with approved budgets, Counsellor! Are you able to blame the re-entry of Burgo's laugh for delay because in Madrid there was a government that was in function? He needs courage! But you made it so quiet. So, regeneration of the Burgo River, the Ferrol River, the Pontevedra River, the 60-year-old Renewal of Age... remain happy, the sector has no problem. You're still tremendously happy. Look, are you going to get the project out of the drawer, the project or whatever you want to call it from the Coastal Law, Counselor? Were you going to remove it from the drawer where you put it because there were elections and because the whole sector rose up, if you set up and claimed the resignation to you in the square of the Obrotoiro because you don't agree with your policy in this matter? It's not like we tell you here the BNG or the forces of opposition, tell you the sector, which do not agree. When are you gonna take it off? Surprised? Did you plan it? Have you ever convinced any of the sector to disengage? Why has this project or project never been removed from the website, and why did it follow there if it turned out to be only a paper? Why did you keep him? Why do they keep him there? I'd like you to answer those questions. Ports, renovation, a bet on fishing infrastructure. Far from Ribeira, Counselor, that Gaiás from the sea, an impressive investment, which did not respond to the needs of the sector nor did it count on the sector. The president of Portos announced that he would take a new invitation to grant the concession because the previous one had not been responsible for it. Are you going to rectify and go to that new competition to count with the people of the sea, count the confrere and make public administrations part of Ribeira's management, or will you follow that line of privatization, Counsellor? Look, more questions. You in this legislation said you would continue with that path so well started and that the data, of course, that it throws... are you satisfied? Of course, dismantling ships. You now say there's a certain recovery, less money for layoffs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u64	They're barely left, Counselor! Or you decide to close the sea permanently or is that practically the levels of boats in the country are low for the fishing capacity we have, and discounting those that have to banner in other countries. And look, with regard to the issue of the Brexit negotiation, will you, apart from sending them reports and arguments, because when the European Union joined, the arguments already existed, the arguments that Galicia was a fishing power already existed. All those arguments already existed and, despite that, an accession was made which meant the ruin of our sea. Then, with the arguments exclusively will not solve the problems, Mrs. Quintana. With which, I ask you: besides sending arguments there, what political pressure will you and your government make directly so that this situation becomes an opportunity for the sea sector in Galicia and does not become a real problem?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Look at the clock, please. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. "Rejoice in your disgust, which is our happiness." End of date, Mr. López Crespo. Never, ever the disgust of the seamen, who feel represented by the forces of opposition, should be the happiness of a government; never ever. [[Applause]] They defend the sector, the whole sector, not to each other. [[Applause]] Conflict does not generate wealth. It cannot be excluded from this appearance - or it seems to us - the situation of the ports of Greece; it seems to us that it is important above all because some of them are in a genuine state of abandonment, and that is the consequence that they put above political interests, as you have already explained, in view of the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. The situation of the Greek ports is directly affecting the lives of the mariners, as well as the lives of the seafarers and seafarers. Besides, I'm an example of promises that are not fulfilled; they go around promising, everything remains in the tone of the list and nothing to stain. I'm just going to put an example: Spacious, because, besides, as he said today is March 21st and it begins in spring 2017, with it also comes the illusion to many ports, which are waiting for dragons. Besides, the situation of Spasant is a serious situation, because when the tide drops, the waves hit the sand. It's so serious, that there's even some insurance companies that include a clause that says if the boat is in space, they don't cover it. Besides, it is so serious the situation that there was a crane to take off the boats, and under the crane there had not been enough silence to be able to isolate them, it was not a safe place, so that the crane finally got rusted and stopped using it. There's no crane now. It's about equipping public service ports, not giving up. That's total abandonment. And as a mighty one, there are other ports. In the port of Corcubion each year you see that you go to bottom 3 or 4 boats, this last year you went to Hermitas in December. So it's a real need. There is a complete abandonment of the situation of the ports of Greece, and therefore it must be included within the lines of the Council of the Sea to make transversal policies. And I'm telling you this because the port situation ultimately affects, and it's transversal policies. We were told by a spaceship that he had a daughter three years old and that when he was leaving in the morning, because he had the boat 30 kilometers away, because his daughter slept, and that when he returned, his daughter was sleeping, because the day was so long by these displacements and for all this they had, in the end, serious problems of conciliation. Besides including gender impact policies and gender impact reports in budgets, we have to make cross-cutting policies and put them into practice, they have to be a reality; it's not worth anything if they stay on paper. The paper bears everything, but in the meantime the ports are in trouble, and with them the sailors, the mariners and the seafarers. Besides, I've heard you talk here about sports nautical, sports fishing. Corcubion's laugh is a fabulous laugh to make there a sports port, there's no other like it, and they've been demanding it for a long time. Finally, to finish, since I don't have much time left, I'd like to talk about the usual. According to the Galego Institute of Statistics and its population projection, Galicia in 2031 would lose around 245,000 inhabitants, another 9% less population. The role of fishing is very important to fix the population in coastal villages. As I told you before, if fishing fails, supermarkets fail, stores fail, everything fails. The reality is that Galicia bleeds. Every day we lose people, day by day, especially in the coastal villages. There are houses and whole neighborhoods that are lame, and the people that are left are older people. Fishing has an important role as a stabilizing factor in the population. Finally, I would like to remind you that, in fishing, insufficient amounts, and they do not allow us to achieve income, and in shellfish we have a sad state of our rivers. The working conditions of seafarers and seafarers are their own centuries, not this century. And it also included -- very important -- that conflict doesn't generate wealth; so it's important to work for the whole sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, you say that the sector has never been angry with you, because it's been over a year. You say there was no law of aquaculture, a preliminary draft, a draft... that nothing strange is being done. For it seems that the sector was not in agreement with that, and the withdrawal at the last moment, before the mobilization, which united the sector as never before must also have been the product of its imagination. Do you know what I'm sorry about, Mrs. Quintana? That you're not here today to hear everything you've brought here and all the things you've said. He managed to split up, talking about the fence, the fence, and he was talking about good fences and bad fences, remember that? Ah!, don't you remember? Well, there was some owner in the siege who... and apart from him had quite a personal regard for you. You know who I'm talking about, I'm not going to quote it because you know it. But, of course, nobody gets mad at you. The sailors and sailors of the Muros and Girl River were also very happy with you in that tour that you say it's not propaganda. That's why — I repeat — I was going with Mr Fajardo, who is a person who loves the sector and all the confrereries; especially in Pontevedra and in the south of the Coruña; let's go! I love him madly. And also to the sailors who are now returned from Norway, from the Long Hope Association — who had not given me time to comment on it before — he helped us very much, especially when he sent to their homes, with premeditation, nocturnality and alleviation, his chief of staff, Mr. Basante, to convince them that they had stopped protesting, because he was not well, and also promised them help. That too, perhaps, was an invention, and they tell these things for defamation and they're not true. They're very happy. With regard to the lines of aquaculture, which speaks of the mussel, of course, we are surprised that in this order that they have just adopted it turns out that it is one of the objectives of granting aid to aquaculture aimed at promoting crops for animal nutrition or non-food uses, such as biofuels or cosmetics, in addition to boosting the production of species that pose a risk to the survival of our marine ecosystems, such as perch or esturion, which are invasive species. This is also known in the research community. He's lucky that I'm from the Sound and that he also comes from the Marine Research Institute -- at the Marine Research Center -- who also watched with astonishment many of the researchers who were there their preliminary draft, or whatever aquaculture law, with such clauses. You also say you don't know what multinational companies we're talking about. Will you just sign up for Northwest Foods? Is that him? [[Murmurs.]] Yes, from the creek of Walls too, and girl, from where... Oh! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, that's a mussel and it's not a multinational! He's not from Norway! It's nothing! Three classes he put in and, above all, with antibiotics, and then granted three more classes. And, of course, the problem is that salmon die, still influence antibiotics. He's going through there experimenting with his Norwegian friends, he's still eager to experiment and, of course, can you tell us how he thinks he's making sure there's no antibiotics leaks when he's not even able to control the spills of laughter? Because the problem of drums — I repeat — is not the granting of permits, but it has a problem with toxins by the state of laughter. The state of laughter... Man, please! [[Murmurs.]] I tell you, it's bad luck that people... Galicia is very small and we've come from multiple places. He also talked about investing in research in Cetmar. Well, there's more research centers. Of course, they are of a state nature, like the CSIC, like, for example, the IEO and like other public state research bodies to which they do not allow them to participate in many calls from the Board, and that is what they are pointers and with international experts on the subject. Man, don't let them participate! I think this year they're starting to be able to participate in such a rally, but that's their bet for science. Look, we don't want our rivers to end up contaminated like the coast of Chile or like the Mekong River in Vietnam, where intensive aquaculture to produce panga left the area completely dead, leading to ruin to the sailors of the place. No, don't laugh, Counselor. So, it's just that everyone else has data and we know things, and it's not the most list in the universe, nor is it the only one who knows things. There are also native species that are disappearing by all of this, and while you spend 8 million euros boosting fuels and cosmetics in aquaculture. That's a joke! So, to us from En Marea, what we'd like to say is that these 8 million euros were allocated to the integral sanitation of the rivers and that marine research that says you support, because the results we just had are no longer common sense not to do so. And if Europe tells them something else, that they want to invest in intensive aquaculture of salmon and other things — not the Berberek or the Mexillon — because they tell them not, they convince Europe, because that is their responsibility and obligation as the German government. Our bet is for a model that is respectful of the environment and which gives greater priority to quality than quantity; not more to disembark but the price and quality, with prices of fish and seafood worthy of mariners and mariners, so that they live with dignity of their work and for our young sea researchers — who also know enough that they are abroad — with that investment that they say they make, stay here, that we need them. We have to take the necessary measures to support the sector, to continue working with the sector and to ensure the future of our coast...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u69	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u70	...and our marine resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr López Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I, indeed, Mrs. Toja, with all due respect, can you say that I was light in saying that I am very happy, but don't say that I said that with the harm of a sector there was the happiness of a politician. I said I was very happy on World Happiness Day because I was a villager from the rural environment and now in the middle of the sea, and I appreciate today in the Galician Parliament that, when I listen to the advisor to the Rural Environment and the sea councillor, those sectors can get better. But, please, if you go to your land, to Laxe, say so, they'll tell you: Crespo doesn't say that, man!; Crespo is a man of the sea, Crespo loves the sea, and Crespo loves the people of the sea. Please, there's nothing worse than, based on parliamentary impunity, to release that. [[Murmurs.]] I wasn't going to say I was happy for the evil of the fishing sector, please! Don't you believe me, Bolshevik? [[Murmurs.]] You don't believe me! [[Murmurs.]] It's just that with this irreverence no longer... [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Poetry is universal, Mrs. Prado, so I remembered today. And, actually, speaking to you, I'm surprised that the people of the BNG, with a certain pruritus of owners of the label of culture, don't remember a day as happy as that of universal poetry. I mean, poetry has to be brought. I brought it from my poor poet Añón, but there were many others. How? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u73	No, no, no, no. Don't get into it, Mr. Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u74	Oh, right? I'm not coming in. Well, don't let me in the president, if you don't, I would gladly come in. Anyway... [[Laughter]] Mrs. Prado, aquaculture is not to sell it to multinationals, said the lady advisor and I repeat it: 500 bats sold, 300 farm parks sold. They're all for that, for the Greek people who buy the beats. The truth is, after all, there are things... Home!, to remember here again the Never Again and remember the Prestige must have a terrible nostalgia of the past. At that time, I was already in politics and there were groups that prohibited me from being sad about the Prestige; they forbade me: you're from the PP and you can't be sad. [[Murmurs.]] Then the crazy cows came: you're from PP and you can't be sad. Even though I had family members, even though my biological life depended on the evil of the Prestige, I couldn't because I was from the PP. Please! Prestige's was an accident that's a little over. By the way, the people on the platforms respect it very much, like any person who gets to make an association for the defense of their interests. But, speaking of platforms — I repeat — they deserve us much respect. If anyone has an influence in Venezuela, to make a "Pladexuve", which would be Venezuelan retirement defense platform. Perhaps with their ability to influence, they could get these people to pay their pensions, as the Long Hope Fisheries Council does, which is trying to cover their pensions. [[Applause]] The Aquaculture Law was a project that came forward, and as this is a rational government that listens to the sector, he heard it easily, because they screamed a lot and could be right. He heard it because they screamed a lot and could be right. [[Laughter]] And what does this government and the people of the PP do when they hear that it's not going the right way? Corrigendum. And rectify one, two, three or four times, no matter what the reason was and therefore what the way you want to go. However, it must be said that the Aquaculture Act had 87 claims. The 2008 Aquaculture Plan — it knows who ruled in 2008 — had 1,044 claims. The difference is — I have to drink because, if not, it doesn't work out — that this aquaculture plan of the year 2008, with 1,047 claims, you know where it went? He went ahead. The draft of the Aquaculture Law, with 87 claims, do you know where it went? He was filed and retired. And now there's going to be another one, and there's going to be another one, like the counselor said, which is the one that has to talk about this, with all the respect to the sector and all the respect to the people there. Don't talk about sanitation. One billion euros have been invested in sanitation. And then the Maricadors and Maricadores. I'm from Outes. The Noia River has 1,600 sailors: 800 are from Outes, between seafooders and seafooders, after Noia they are 600 and the rest are from Lousam, some from Walls and some from Port of Sound. The Maricadores of Outes — whom I know for notoriety, for affection, for kinship... — were regarded as Maricadores by the Government of the People's Party. But what did he do with them? With meat and high at the ISM, because there was someone who was going very nice and wanted them to pay for hours. If that were so, today the Marishers couldn't be earning retirement. What do we think they're all right? No, and we have to get better. And that's why you're working to keep the maricadores and maricadores getting better...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u75	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u76	...and that's why we're working so that there's still permex for walking and sailing and so that there can be sector and resistance. Nothing else, Counselor. The People's Group appreciates your intervention, your presence. And as you said, tell us what is needed in the development of that policy of the sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u77	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo. Close the show. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, data from the siege and trawlers aren't clear either, because you said 54 boats from the siege, then you came here and said that anyone who knew it already realized it was wrong and that these were the trawlers. It's just that we have 67. I'm just telling you to keep track of the real data of what our fleet is. [[Applause]] And he also said that the sardine would come back if the governments wanted — which is an appointment — to do so. Man, I, look, if it were because we wanted to, we'd have sardine, we'd have yards, we'd have sworn it and we'd have everything. But this is not so for you, this works for biological cycles, this works for exploitation, this works for climate change, and this works for many causes that affect the different stocks of different fish populations. And then, because I'm just telling you that we're celebrating this year's 100th anniversary of the creation of the Oceanographic Institute of Vigo. And do you know why the Oceanographic Institute of Vigo has been 100 years? What was the reason why you created that first lab in 1916? The sardine crisis. And since then the sardine has recovered. We've lived times where there was no sardine and we've also lived times where there's sardine again. At this point, there are teams of researchers, both Spanish and Portuguese, studying Sardinia, as it's been doing since 1916, and the data point to what seems to be a recovery of this stock. And as we as government want there to be sardine, then I'm going to say that, as it is what I want and how there are researchers working and how there's a sector making a good management plan, I hope there's sardine. And I'll be the happiest woman in the world when our fleet can re-fish sardine. You tell me that I come here and I don't analyze what the results of these eight years of government were. Look, that job I do every day. I came here and I did that work -- of course -- and in front of all of you. And I don't come here to introduce myself as if I've only been to the Council 100 days ago; I've seen and I've taken a balance of what we've been doing and working on the hands of the sector since 2009. Then that analysis is done. I also ask you to do an analysis of what your political opposition work is, of what degree you are defending the real interests of the sector, or of what degree - and I am sorry to say - you are trying to use the sector to generate a different Christ that is really happening in the everyday reality of this sector. I didn't say at any time that the sector isn't angry with me, nor did I say that I get along with everybody, I say I listen to everyone, I get everybody and I try to apply the rules that favor most of the sector, where I don't have any friends or enemies. For me it's the sector I have a duty to represent, to defend, and to work alone and exclusively for him. Look, someone said that we were now recovering the work with the Galician Fisheries Council and that now we met a lot of the Galician Fisheries Council, and I'm telling you that to the Galician Fisheries Council we always met and, in fact, in 2009, when we arrived at the Government, we had to bring in very little time what was the vision that Galicia had before the reform of the new common fisheries policy. Those who have been before — and I am sorry to say that, but this is the case — have not done any analysis or any proposal or work of what they wanted the fisheries sector to be well collected in the new reforms of the common fisheries policy. In 2009, we worked in an internal document in the board itself, took it to the Galego Fisheries Council and, unanimously — and it is something that I feel tremendously proud of — if you approved the position of the fishing Galicia wanted to have the reform of the common fisheries policy taken into account. It's funny! we were the ones at the Galego Fisheries Council, where absolutely all the sub-sectors of fishing — all, from the shellfishers to the processing industry — were represented, to agree, to give each one of us a little of what we had to expect so that it would turn out to be the unanimous stance. And it was also curious to see how the sector itself, with the administration representing it, was able to reach an agreement. And when it came to this statement with the unanimous stance that the sector represented the Parliament of the Galician Union, at that time the PSOE abstained and the Block voted against. It was not a Council document, it was a document adopted unanimously by all representatives of the sector. And as someone accused us here that we made a report and kept our arms crossed, we said no, no, no; with that document we went to Brussels, we met with the Committee on Fisheries of Parliament and we defended each and every one of the arguments that were put out there in that document. And, from Galicia, arguments were also given to the Central Government to defend the interests of the Spanish fishing fleet. Why? Because it was mostly what the Spanish fishing fleet wanted, since it was mostly Welsh. And what do we get? We managed to simplify the position on the maximum sustainable yield that had to be achieved in 2015. And we said what the report of the Galician Fisheries Council said: in 2015, when possible, and, if not, in 2020, and so it was collected in reform. And we've also been able to smooth the policy of discards, and in that line it's the only thing we're going to work on. We are not able to say that others decide what is done in our sea. I don't have to beg Andalucía for anything; no, no, no. The Spanish fishing sector sat at a table with the General Fisheries Secretariat and agreed among all the criteria for distribution. Those distribution criteria were the ones that have been applied. And to me someone tells me if Galicia didn't get out well on that distribution criterion when, with the same distribution criterion, we have 98% of the fishing opportunities for jurelo and only 1.14% of mouth. It is clear that we have this because our fundamental activity was in Sardinia and the Jury, and the mouth was a very secondary species for the vast majority of the Galician fleet, because lately it didn't reach Galicia. And what we have achieved is the commitment of the General Fisheries Secretariat that, if the mouth appears, there will be a chance that Galicia will be able to catch it. You know what you can't do is misuse a natural resource, because you're watching us every day from the European Commission and you can't fish for 13 boats in just four days' time, 270 tons of rice and sell it to 2 euros. We have to get a higher economic yield for our fishing industry, and we have to know how to distribute fishing over time. It's not worth bringing a lot of kilograms of fish to the ground, what's worth is the value we can give you here by marketing that our product. And then we'll keep working. And I'm not going to say that I'd like you to withdraw from today's session, from today's Minutes, a lie more than you said. There's no boat without quota, but the other thing is that some shipowner had bought a boat in an area and that's where he had the fishing opportunities, but that's what he knew when he bought the boat. My offer in the first year of negotiations with Acerga, when we started the new management model, was that all ships had a minimum quota in all areas to be able to work. The minute one was refused, refused the following year, and last year, at last, they realized it was a good negotiation and accepted that they all had at least one quota to be able to make it. As for those who were tied there a hundred days, that I didn't go out to talk to them and that I didn't care about them, look, this fleet decided in October to finish its fishing when there were still fishing opportunities. We had at least four meetings in my office; at some of them came the Secretary General of Fisheries. The president himself and the spokesperson of Aprega were at a meeting with the president of the Union, they received themselves, they had spoken, and I'm the only one who says: let's forget the trouble of the past and move towards the future, but what's hard to justify for an administration when it's going to negotiate in front of the European Union more and better fishing possibilities is that 2015 was downloaded in Galicia 50 million kilos of the siege and billed 40 million euros and in 2016 if you download 52 million kilos, that is, two million pounds more, and you charge 36 million euros, that is, 4 million euros less. We have to be consistent with what we're working with. It is a natural resource that is a public domain and that society as a whole gives it to the fishing sector so that it can live better and better in this sector. The re-engineering themes tell me it needs value. No, it takes courage for you to come here and say what you're saying. I remind you: during the time that you ruled — and you think some office was in the Bipartite Union — 58 million euros were destined to pay salaries and get those areas to stop being productive. Since we're ruling, that money is used for the regeneration of unproductive areas, the microbiological classification of more than 870 square kilometers has improved and the microbiological classification of more than 500 bats has improved. It seems to me that these are the ways of doing things, of working equally for all, and not as some have done — which they now intend to say otherwise —, favoring each other and harming others. When they talk about the Coastal Law, I suppose they'll refer to the Aquaculture Law, and I repeat, I have no incentive to make any law that goes against anyone. Please don't tell me, Mrs Prado, about the multinational Northwest Foods, don't talk to me, because I'm obliged to remind you who gave Norwest Foods permission to install the first three salmon bats in the Arousa River, which you gave to her in 2008; they gave her permission not to three cages, they gave her permission for 20 cages, to place them in the middle of the Arousa River, where most of the mexillon cultivation is developed in Galicia — which, of the 3,500 bats we have, 2,500 are in Arousa. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] How did you intend to combine the cultivation of the mussel in Arousa with the cultivation of 20 chalets of salmon? [[Applause]] Man, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We must have a little seriousness when we come to Parliament, which here we are all representing the vast majority of the Greeks and the Greeks, and I like to take these issues seriously. [[Applause]] And I'm going to finish, because, really, I've heard things here that, as a biologist, make me put a little bit of the body in the air, but I'm not going to talk because you're not going to think I'm smarter than anyone. I'm not smarter than anyone, but I have research teams that are working at times and constantly. Today we have six Intemar technicians who are professionals who set the European Union's FVO to carry out inspections to other countries, to provide training in other countries. We're listed internationally as an example, and I'm told here that toxins are the result of contamination in the creeks, look, I'm not going to pass it. That's what I'm going to leave it to the technicians, who have to debate on that subject. I'm just asking you, who knows so many researchers, to talk to them and let them know what the things and causes of the appearance of toxins in the yellow rivers are. [[Applause]] What do I say again: no multinationals, no intensive aquaculture, no exotic species... Don't fool the sector. See, of the EUR 38 million coming from the European Fisheries Fund, which ended in 2015, for aquaculture, 31.2 were given to the shippers. This is an intensive aquaculture of exotic species and I don't know what else? And when you talk about exotic species, I'd like any of you to approach the seamstresses and tell them that from now on you won't be able to cultivate the Japanese plum because it's an exotic species, because, as your own name indicates, you-for-a, it has nothing to do with the origin of the Galician, but I mean you're giving life to many seamstresses. [[Applause]] And I'm going to finish. I just want to convey what I said at the outset: illusion about work, illusion that our professionals can live better every day, illusion that they continue to provide scientific and practical arguments both in the sector and in scientists so that they can defend our interests in Brussels. And, I repeat, the data I gave in my first intervention I didn't make them up, it's data that's in statistics, it's data that all of you, if you want to tell the truth to the sector, you can see them on the different official pages. Just one thing for Mrs. Toja, who forgot. The dredgings in ports for me are also a concern. We're currently doing dredging in more than a dozen ports, and what I have to say is that the subject of dragons every day is more complex, that means mud movement, mud movement, and that means studies characterizing batimetry. Identification studies are needed to identify the composition of the different elements that form the substrate and therefore it is often two years of administrative processing with reports in order to address a dredging. That is what I said in my first speech, which is a matter of concern to me and I am concerned about, and that is why we will present before this Parliament a plan of dredging, of maintenance of dredgings, which allows us to characterize the funds, and some points of dumping so that administrative processing is as short as possible, but always respecting the environment, because we live in it. And I also want to remind you of something in the case of recreational nautical. In sports nautical, we have decided that the money that the Public Service has is to make investments towards the professional sector of the sea. If any private wants to have a sports port, a recreational port, of course, will have the support of the Administration to give you the necessary administrative concessions and to commit the necessary investments. I'll say good-bye. Now I end by saying that there is a future, that our sector is still alive, that our youth continues to bet on the sea and that every day we are, among all, making a bluer Galicia, with a more living sea, even though some are trying to say otherwise. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u79	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u80	Good afternoon. We resume the session, with agenda item 2, which is motions. G.P. motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the hospitals of the area of health of Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u81	Two amendments were tabled: one from the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u82	To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u83	Thank you, President. We are bringing today the motion that constitutes the question that we have discussed in the full past concerning the situation in the health area of Pontevedra, that extension of the Montecelo Hospital, which is why the groups of professionals are fighting for, the collectives in defense of public health, opposition parties and trade unions for many years, and obviously also because of the situation in which the whole area remains. In the interpellation we have already shifted En Marea's position in this respect, and obviously the intention was also to support the popular stance or legislative initiative, as we have already moved to the intervention of the full past, which we soon understand will already enter the House, because many thousands of signatures have already been collected, precisely in defense of public health in the Pontevedra area. We have also moved to the previous plenary that the People's Party has passed two legislatures, eight years, without taking any measure to improve public health, when conditions are obviously the same, obviously now a little worse than eight years ago; that is, we were right or were right about the people who claimed the extension of Montecelo eight years ago, and obviously they still have now. However, two legislations had to be passed so that this very struggle of the Public Health Defense Platform, the health care system, made the People's Party abandon that model of enlargement, which then was not enlargement, but a new public-private hospital, with that same model that had such negative results in the case of the new Vigo hospital, with that project of Monte Carrasco. And it was precisely in the process of the electoral campaign when they announced that they were actually going back in this great work, this great work that they wanted to do, and that they would obviously render themselves to the logic of that necessary extension to transfer some of the services that are now at the Provincial Hospital and, of course, to improve others of the services that are now in Montecelo. In the past full we saw how it was used as an excuse for the project that was in a previous government, in the Bipartisan Government, before the entrance of the People's Party. We've already moved that, regardless of whether the People's Party might like it more or less, that doesn't justify having lost eight years in another PFI project, a PFI of a new hospital, they knew from the beginning that they would have many difficulties to do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u84	Quiet, please. Excuse me a moment. Quiet. It's just that there's a whisper here that has to bother anyone who's in the use of the word. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u85	A little bit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u86	Yeah, enough, enough.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u87	So we understand that this excuse that moved was not valid, because it was perfectly there or had the People's Party even the possibility of making another public expansion project by that time. The purpose of the inquiry was to ensure that obviously the Government was not going to make such an expansion with a public-private collaboration, that it was guaranteed that the parking lot would be public, because we are seeing as in the last works, in the last centres and enlargements — we saw it in Vigo, we saw it in Ourense; in fact, in the case of Ourense we have already said here that the Junta has already answered a written question saying that part of the new parking lot is going to be deprived as well—there is this tendency to privatize everything they can around health. And, therefore, realizing that there may be such a temptation that there is a public-private collaboration, that the management of what remains of the former Provincial Hospital is not public, that the parking lot is private, we will obviously bring a motion today that calls for parliamentary groups to commit themselves to some of the things announced by the Health Counsellor and others who have not committed themselves. We obviously want to be told that this project will be auctioned and evaluated in 2017. It has been said that we are no longer asking for the work to be started, we are talking about the project, and we understand that, given the deadlines that the Health Adviser himself transferred to the administrative procedures that are already in progress, there is simply a political will to be able to bid for this project in the coming year. There is this possibility, because if we do not, of course, understand that there is no desire to move forward in this project and that really the only thing we have is an announcement, we're going to have to wait next year. I repeat: bid and assist the project, the hospital zoom project. We understand that the People's Party should have no problem getting involved. Obviously, to ensure that the parking lot is going to be public, because we have a problem: we're starting to have to pay for public health, to leave the vehicle, and also for people who are going to work in public health. In addition, we want you to tell us, to make sure that at the former Provincial Hospital they will continue to remain these health services, as you said you would be the Health Counsellor, contradicting what the Social Policy Counsellor had said in the presence of the previous plenary. We want that use to be assured, because there are broad needs, both in primary care and in specialized care, that must remain outpatiently in that center, and we therefore want to make sure that use is going to be healthy. Health use for the center. We also want you to make sure here, because since the health adviser has committed himself to the full past, I understand that the People's Party Group will have no problem, that there will be no public-private collaboration to fund this new hospital and that therefore funding will be 100% public and we understand that funding and management will be 100% public. And we also want the professionals to be given information so that they can participate in this functional plan. Because look, here it was announced that a participatory process would open up to provide opinions in the functional plan. The reality is that none/one of the healthcare professionals has at their disposal any memory of the center, so it's very difficult to make minimally professional assessments or contributions and therefore that the Health Council takes them into account if there is no data on how the health area is being managed and we cannot obviously value them. Therefore, this announced participation can be said to be false, because really the only thing that could be asked or asked for by professionals would be contributions without being able to base them on specific data. It is common here that we are required to be based on data when making assessments and interventions. And, therefore, we understand that there is no problem on the part of the Health Council — since it is now so fashionable to transparency — in providing precisely the memories of the centres: the number of interventions, the number of consultations, which are all the data relating to the professionals working, such as the services, etc., etc., etc. So what we want is that, once and for all — and I am going to finish now — the Galician Union and, in this case, the Galician Parliament, the different groups, commit themselves to having a project this year that has been delayed for eight years, that is going to work, that is fully —100% — public and that obviously ensures the needs that professionals have been claiming for almost a decade. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u89	Good afternoon. On this issue, the first issue we believe that it must be made very clear — especially to the Members and Members of the People's Party — that the decision to discard the construction of the Monte Carrasco private financing and management hospital was a collective achievement of the people of Pontevedra and its urban area. It was an achievement of social mobilization, of citizen collectives, of health professionals and municipalities, and it was a achievement also thanks to the firm position of the municipal government of Pontevedra and its mayor, who refused to collaborate on this project, who did not yield to the blackmail of the People's Party, repeated blackmail for many years and who remained firm to prevent this private hospital in Monte Carrasco from happening. And now the People's Party wants to note so much about the previous position of enlargement of Montecelo. Well, the truth and reality is that the capricious and irrational decision of the People's Party — Capricious is a saying, because there really were dark interests there, there was a big business of... —. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if you want to comment on anything, because... Mr. President, they're used to it, I don't know if... [[The President said words that were not understood.]] That decision was not really capricious, because there were dark interests, interests of the big business of the builders, as in Vigo hospital, but the reality is that that decision had serious consequences, had serious consequences. [[Murmurs.]] You don't seem to have a lot of attention here on the People's Party benches. Anyway. [[Murmurs.]] Because on the way......they lost more than 13 million euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because this doesn't matter. Over the years they've been trashed, they've ruined more than 13 million euros. For example, to make for more than 10 million euros a works of pharaonic deployment of 1.3 kilometers on the road The Pino-Bora, a work not demanded by anyone, not included in any infrastructure planning and that you were committed to doing even though it was a perfectly useless work. And they also spent more than 1.2 million euros on projects of the new one, not at the private hospital in Monte Carrasco: basic project, sectoral project, preliminary project, etc. Between 2010 and 2013, at last, more than 11.3 million in waste of public money — you assume efficiency and efficiency in management. You look at this: in the years 2012 and 2013, in the worst years of this that you call the crisis, because you took this money, which could be used for example to make three health centers. Well, the first thing they should do is ask forgiveness. They should ask forgiveness here in this forum for paralyzing Montecelo's project for eight years and for misuse of public resources. But the reality is that they finally gave up that Monte Carrasco hospital and that made it possible to reach an agreement with the Town Hall, sign a convention and establish a new line of collaboration, which the Town Hall also placed in that document with an amount of EUR 4 million, plus other investments. Although that was a step forward, for now we have only one announcement, an announcement that is a statement of intentions and little more, because the reality is that in budgets there is very little reflection of that commitment. We have EUR 1.1 million this year, but that's certainly not enough for everything that needs to be put in place to make that hospital a reality in a reasonable time frame and that it's not a promise for the 20s, for the 20s, for the mid-20s. Now, after making the functional plan, we have to do the constructive project, we have to do the sectoral project of supra-municipal incidence, and so even though we're going to vote in favour, we seem a little naive about that intention of bidding and adjudicating the project in 2017. It's materially impossible, because we're still at the beginning of management to really know what you want to do there. So what we need is facts, not words, also ensuring the guarantee of social participation in the definition of the uses of the Montecelo Hospital, the Provincial Hospital, but that it is really participation, not a dilatory maneuver to earn time, to delay, to delay the solution to this problem. So facts, sectoral project, land, constructive project, as before, and, above all, budgets. And with regard to the Provincial Hospital, I would also like to highlight the importance of works as soon as possible. We can't wait for Montecelo's works to be done to cope with the necessary works of improvement at the Provincial Hospital. We also advocate maintaining its public equipment and its health use, which we think does not have to be incompatible with other socio-health and healthcare uses, which is also what the Public Health Defense Platform demands. And it seems to us, moreover, that it is a mistake to enter into that artificial debate that put the People's Party around the table around that supposed residence for the old age, that what you want is to get rid of, dizzy and divert...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u91	...the attention of the principal, which is the need to respond as soon as possible to the construction of the new Montecelo. So, we defend the improvement of the Provincial Hospital, the defense and guarantee of its public character, and of course the Pontevedra Town Hall what it won't do is what the Town Hall of Santiago did, to change the general plan to redeploy and do business with the Galeras Hospital. There the Provincial Hospital will continue to be public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u92	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Enjoying, sharing happiness, must be cheerful. I was thinking about quoting some health-related poet, but these are two complicated themes. We're going to do a little intrusion and quote a musician who sometimes has something of a poet, who is Silvio Rodríguez, who said: "To have is not a sign of evil and not to have is also proof that he accompanies virtue, but he who is born well paid to look for what he craves does not have to invest in health." I think it's quite appropriate as an ideological model, because here, although some say otherwise, we do politics and politics is ideology; I say so that no one... [[Applause]] In any case, to continue with happiness, I want to congratulate the People's Party. I think there are times that we have to accept when we make good decisions, for two things: first, by the cessation of the former manager of the Hospital of Pontevedra. Well I know we asked for it here a few weeks ago, it took less than a week in caesal, and I want to congratulate them on the decision; I think it was a good decision, brave; we want the new direction to have a good heel and the possibilities to be able to talk again about things, with the workers, with the professionals, with the users, and we don't come back in recent times. That's at a point. And in the second, its shift in position with regard to the enlargement of Montecelo. I think it is also necessary to congratulate them because in time — it cost them — but in time, they closed the door to that Monte Carrasco enlargement project. Some people, probably close to some group of the People's Party, have stayed there halfway with the purchase of some land and they're going to keep the business in half, but I congratulate them for their decision, in both things: the termination of the manager and the change of position. It must be acknowledged that the two best things they did in Pontevedra's health area are to come to the positions we had in the Socialist Party, so I congratulate them, and I thank them for knowing how to rectify in this case; it is wise to correct, and therefore very sincerely, I congratulate them. As for the motion, specifically, we clearly shared the position with regard to the parking lot, with regard to participation, with regard to the deadlines, always within possible, really — as the spokesman of the BNG on this matter, Mr Bará — within possible, but we shared the need to do so as soon as possible; and of course we shared the position of the need to be public, which is a word that we need to reinforce much, especially in health, public. We want, we try not to exist afterwards or take advantage of legal or formal traps. We want it to be public, and that's why we fully bet on what the ILP itself says, because we think it's a good approach. We agree that there can be a day-to-day hospital — it is a possibility — there may even be a day-to-day centre, but public. That's our demand: to be public. We do not share that favours private business from an installation or extension of a public hospital, a work so relevant to the public system, that favors private businesses that can take advantage of that enlargement, even with certain facilities, from the lands or other issues that are most hidden. So we are betting, and there goes the line of our amendment, but only an appreciation that can be taken into account as far as possible, by a technical question, an urban, urban, socio-sanitary use, because it is the right urban term, but in any case we share that use should be health and — I insist — public. So, in addition to that amendment, this purely technical issue, our position, which we want to strengthen, is that of the ILP. And since the People's Party has changed its position on the enlargement of Montecelo, it has gone back, although we are aware that it could cost you some internal debate, and we rejoice that they have dissolved it, because they have changed that position and returned to a reasonable position that everyone was defending, because we are convinced that it is already possible to make the full path and get to the point that we all share: that it is a purely public center and that we can strengthen our health. So, first of all, those congratulations. Secondly, this precision about the motion, which we share. And, third and lastly, to raise an additional issue, which is that the question of service planning is not affected, that Montecelo enlargement serves to strengthen — and not to disbalance — the health area, because this integrated organizational structure of management that was figured out at the moment what it generates, when there are comarcas hospitals, is first and second centers, and I, who am from Salnes and am a user from Salnes Hospital, what I don't want exactly is that this extension serves to make even smaller the small brother of the area, because that's what some professionals and many users fear. We therefore believe that it is necessary to insist that it serves to strengthen. In that sense, we will always be all at the same point: that it does not diminish the capacity of the Salnés Hospital, that we do not prejudice one another to enlarge others — therefore enlargement would make no sense, it would only relocate — that it would serve to expand — in the full sense of the word — facilities and above all to extend services. And that is why we are going to support the initiative and we look forward, as the rapporteur for the initiative said, to be approved by all, because we are on the same path and it is a good opportunity to get to the end of the road together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u94	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. First of all, the Tide motion asks to agree to bid and adjudicate the project for hospital enlargement in 2017. It is clear that this is a boutade, it is known as a lack of seriousness, Mrs. Solla, because, if you speak of bidding and adjudicating, when you know perfectly that you still need to approve the plan of uses, the functional plan, the sectoral project, make expropriations, make the project constructive, bid and assist it, it is obvious that you are not taking anything seriously this, because it is impossible — and so was told in the question to the counsellor — that in 2017 it is lawful and helpful to build this hospital. To bid and adjudicate a hospital — believe me — is much more complex than to adjudicate for example a school dining room, and you know enough about this, because if it takes six months to help a school dining room in the Town Hall of Santiago, you can imagine the procedures and the time it takes to help adjudicate anything more and nothing less than a hospital. So you've been told by your advisor that until the end of 2018 or early 2019 you can't do the works in Pontevedra. You're aware of that. In fact, in the interrogation you answered and said to the counselor: I thank you, Counselor, for giving me the approximate dates. Obviously, it is confirmed that the enlargement will not be done that year. If you know that, what comes here with a proposal asking you to plead and assist yourself in 2017? Frankly, it doesn't make sense. Well, of course not, because the government of Feijóo, President Feijóo, is a serious government, that does not lie, that does not lie, that what gives are reasonable deadlines, and of course it would be to lie to the Greeks to tell them that in 2017 it would be bid and adjudicate. On the other hand, they ask for the project to be conditioned to a model of financing solely public. Look, the counselor has already told you: this formula is not going to be used to make the new hospital in Pontevedra, but not because it's an illegal formula, but because precisely President Feijóo's good management allows the board to now be able to handle the construction of this hospital with its own funds. But, in any case, this formula — Mr. Torrado, I also say to you — it must not be bad, because I remember in 2010 that then Minister of Health, Trinidad Jiménez, opening the Hospital de Mallorca Son Spases, with public-private co-financing, said it was "a magnificent example of the level of excellence of the national health system and commitment to public health." Bad shouldn't be when you, your party said this at a hospital done with public-private collaboration. Third, they ask that the inclusion of a private parking garage model be avoided in the project. I wonder, well, private, what if it were free, even though it was private, would you agree? Because I believe that the ILP and its initiatives up to now are asking for it to be free. Of course, if you look at Santiago, for example, I don't think he's a model to imitate, because Santiago de Compostela, with a mayor of the front tide group, what he's doing is modifying the general plan to make a parking lot of 500 squares, which will not be free of charge. What happens, what happens: does the Tides not like how the Town Hall of Santiago does? because this is what it is doing and what the mayor of Santiago is announcing: a parking lot next to the hospital but paid. I don't know if they agree or not. In any case, they are calm, because in Montecelo there are already free parking areas and, in any case, at the convention signed with the Pontevedra Town Hall it is already established as one of the obligations of the Town Hall the following — says literally —: "It will also correspond to the Town Hall the provision of the parking spaces necessary deterrents to properly meet the demand that can be generated." So be calm, Mrs. Solla. I'm surprised that you don't know this, because the concelers at the Marea de Pontevedra voted in favour of this agreement, i.e., they were perfectly in agreement, they were perfectly aware that the Pontevedra Town Hall is going to make these dissuasive parking lots. Then we are asked that the use of the Provincial Hospital be exclusively sanitary. Here I really lose myself sincerely, because on the one hand the Socialist Party of Pontevedra also says it is exclusively health and the Socialist Party of Galicia, here, in an amendment, it no longer says exclusively health care, says so-health care; then, I think it would be important for the Socialist Party of Galicia and the Socialist Party of Pontevedra to agree. So, health care, only health care or health care? [[Murmurs.]] I believe that when they agree, it would be good if they came with a single idea to debate in this Parliament. The BNG, for its part, does not want to limit the use exclusively of health care, but rather to say health care. Frankly, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think you know where they are. This part of them want to sideline and refer to ILP, which you before the elections supported the public health platforms to take forward this ILP, but ILP does not only say health care; it says it will maintain health use, which at my trial does not exclude any other kind of use. But in addition, the hospital currently has no use exclusively in health care, because there is the Nursing School, which is a school dependent on the University of Vigo and dependent on the Deputy of Pontevedra. So, here, Your Honor, there are menus for all tastes. So what I want to know is what the opposition wants: exclusively health care or health care or not exclusively. It would be good if they made it clear. You agreed to push this ILP; of course, as they were on the eve of the autonomic elections, they wanted to take the picture, but now, from what I see, they're already disregarding the ILP promoters, they're completely demarcated, and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u97	...of course, the ILP actually has a lot of signatures, but you're the first to despise them. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, when you're done, ask to be posted on the website in order to make contributions. Already being done, users are already being consulted, professionals are already being consulted, there are even some models for users themselves to show their views about what the new hospital should have. And so, Your Honor, I don't think you take this seriously...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u99	...they don't take the new hospital seriously. We will therefore vote against this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u100	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u101	Thank you, President. It was clear that the People's Party would not surprise us and needed some excuse to be able to vote against the initiative; then it would bear its eight-year responsibility without extending the new hospital to the opposition. It's quite surprising, although we're really already used to it, that they transfer us the responsibility that during two legislates they weren't able to exercise. And I don't know if you've read the initiative correctly, I invite you to read it, and it would be good if you had done it before you intervened, because the initiative talks about bidding and adjudicating the project. I don't know if you know what to bid and help the project and the work are different things and so you should understand that there is a possibility that this project is being fought and that it corresponds to a political will. What the health adviser said in the full past wasn't what you said here today. Obviously they won't do the work in 2017, that would be impossible. But we're talking about the project bidding; that is, making plans, calculations, at last. And what's a lie is moving for eight years that they're going to be able to do a public-private hospital in Monte Carrasco when they know from the beginning that they have their difficulties. The reasons why you didn't do it were, first, because you won them the struggle of the Public Health Defense Platform and the struggle of both professionals and professionals, and secondly because you know that when you did the public-private hospital in Vigo, that we understand was disastrous, then you hadn't yet entered into the rule in force of the Ministry of Business that reports, which are also mandatory, concerning the viability of this public-private collaboration. Now yes, and you already have more difficulty putting that into action. Of course it's legal. We didn't share it, but nobody said it wasn't legal. I wish it wasn't legal. In fact, our group does not defend Law 15/97. We know that we have different ideological positions, but please ask them to be a little frank and not to transfer to the opposition the responsibility they did not exercise in two legislates. And obviously, when we talk about the parking lot, we talk about a parking lot in the hospital. We're not talking about another outside, an audience. I have already told you that, in the case of the Ourense hospital, for example, you yourself — not you, the Executive — have responded to this honourable Member who will indeed have private use, which will be charged for parking. So it's logical that there is this concern and that we ask them to commit themselves to that it won't be so. What's going on? Which is very practical to come here and use the excuses to vote against, but obviously you don't understand that opposition groups can have different positions in some respects and, however, they can exercise the responsibility of reaching an agreement to vote together for something that has been working on since the Health Platform for many years. It seems you don't have the same responsibility and use this precisely to carry out a campaign that you haven't been able to convince us in eight years. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u102	About the amendments?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u103	We'll come to an agreement on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u104	Thank you. G.P. motion. of the Galician Nationalist Block on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the automotive sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u105	This motion was tabled an amendment by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea and by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u106	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u107	Well, before I begin to talk about the issue of automotive, I would like to express from this gallery the support of the BNG Group for the workers and workers of Pescanova, who today manifested themselves in Vigo and who are on strike defending a fair agreement. After enduring many years of the company, they now want fair working conditions and wages. [[Applause]] And therefore they have all our support. With regard to the automotive sector, the fact is that in recent weeks there has been some novelty, basically, with the denunciation of the unions, and also with the opposition initiatives, such as this which brought the BNG here to Parliament, which somehow forced some small change of position on the part of the Government of the Union, which is abandoning this triumphal speech that gave us here the Industry Advisor that everything goes well, that we are champions of Industry 4.0. They recognize — sometimes with a small mouth, but recognize it — that there is a problem, and I think the Vice-President of the Union has made it clear when he mentioned that Portugal's aid for the implementation of companies was to be investigated for breach of Community competition legislation. Or when he said, also in a press round, that "we're analyzing the causes of the leak of companies that are happening, or that can be produced, towards Portugal. It's a matter of great concern to us, because they're, in addition, consolidated companies, assistants from large companies here. The pace of these companies can become an important problem." So there are two speeches there. But at least the vice president's mouth is recognizing that there's a problem, or that might be an important problem. And beyond terminological debates, whether this is a process of relocation or simply of large-scale location of auxiliary companies in Portugal, mainly in northern Portugal, there is an undeniable reality: that, if we do not act with urgency and force, the sector faces threats and risks. And we know what happened to the naval. We must therefore act to avoid the effects that would have a similar situation on the automobile: industrial desertification that would cause in the south of Pontevedra province, and mainly in the urban area of Vigo. Data is data, it's reality. 2,000 direct jobs were lost, while Portugal in this same period of time created 6,000 jobs. And we're talking not only about jobs, but also about the worsening of wage and work conditions, of precariousness, of loss of rights, with the excuse of the crisis and of Portugal's competition: lower wages, rates of abusive work that affect health, subcontracting with auxiliary companies, an increase in temporary recruitment, time regulation, finally a deterioration in the quantity and quality of jobs. Well, to deal with this situation, which is a future threat to the sector, we argue that there is a need for a political strategy to support the automotive sector, which must be agreed with all the agents and which must contemplate actions at different levels. The reality is that we have there next to Portugal, which has a state policy, while our country, Galicia, does not have it. Portugal has economic, fiscal, administrative incentives. As we have already told you, in the Resoe region — which is now going to have a "c" at the end — because there is a working group specializing in industrial issues, specifically automotive, and leading the northern region of Portugal. And this is giving rise to results, such as the capture of investments by auxiliary international companies in northern Portugal and the attraction of companies — and this is a new phenomenon — of the Greek matrix. Until 27, according to the Cluster, they've already moved, or are planning to move, north of Portugal. And there's also a strategic bet on the autonomous vehicle with three major international projects already installed in Portugal. In the meantime, here we don't, unfortunately, have an equivalent strategy. In spite of the fact that there were large amounts of aid to the sector, large amounts of millions of euros, because the reality is that they were not linked, and they didn't have a guarantee of permanence behind the projects in Galicia, and that research and innovation would return to Galicia and that there would be a return to investment, neither to job maintenance, nor to labour and salary rights. At the same time we have that we are not competitive in industrial soil, that the price of the soil is comparatively very high, that we do not have solely at competitive prices, that in recent years a company has been installed in Galicia, in the Molle business park, in Nigrán, which paid 150 euros the square metre, while there were 14 companies that have settled in northern Portugal paying very low amounts. Therefore, there is also a lack of a joint strategy in this matter between the Free Zone and the Union to enable the supply of industrial soil in sufficient amount at competitive prices. And there — we have told you again — is the evidence of Plisán's failure and delay, which was a really strategic project for the industrial sector — because, in addition, it is a well-communicated space, both by road and by rail. It's been processing for 17 years and it's not yet seen the end of the tunnel, although they've already announced that by the coming year, the first land will appear to be sold. And in the meantime, on the other side of the border, we already know they've been squatted. On the other hand, they're talking about Industry 4.0, which is its big slogan. There's a lot of propaganda sometimes and little reality, because, for example, we have a Galician Automotion Technology Center that goes through being flagged by research in the sector, and is actually acting like a foundation, like a PSA subcontracting company, costing the parent company and promoting wage and labor precariousness, despite having large amounts of public funding money. And we don't have any guarantee that this investment will return to Galicia. We're also staying behind in the auto race, because most of the auto auxiliary industries are also installing in Portugal; 4 out of 5 car providers are in Portugal. Therefore, it is necessary to react. We have to take action now, we have to do it as soon as possible, and we have to do it through a common front, a global support and empowerment strategy for the sector that has to be negotiated with companies and also with unions, universities, and that we have to have at least the following lines of action. First of all, the promotion of R & D+i in collaboration with companies, universities and technological centres, so that the aid lines are guaranteed to ensure that companies locate their research centres in Galicia, that jobs are maintained, that labour and wage rights are respected, and that productive centres in Galicia remain. We must also have a new industrial ground policy that guarantees the availability of soil with services and competitive prices. And we also need tools to speed up and simplify administrative processing by means of formulae, for example, as a single window that allows for coordination between administrations and the provision of infrastructure, equipment and means for companies. We also believe it is important that the necessary studies — and we propose that it be through the Economic and Social Council — be carried out to prepare a report on the impact of relocation on the Greek economy. Because it's a reality, they call it relocation or they call it the location of most of the auxiliary companies in northern Portugal. A study of the incidence of this phenomenon has to be done. We also need to analyze and study the aid granted over the past eight years to the automotive companies, the effects they have had and the evolution of production and staff paintings, to evaluate the effects and results of this investment. And finally, thirdly, a unique, differential and competitive tool that we have in Galicia, which is the approval, the possibility to approve, a Welsh electric tariff for industrial production, logically also for domestic consumption, which would allow a significant reduction in production costs and increase the competitiveness of companies. We believe that a unanimous agreement in this area would mean a turning point, a great advance, in order, firstly, to recognize a situation of risks and threats to the sector, but also of opportunities and new possibilities, and, therefore, through this agreement, to develop a comprehensive action plan, a consensus and ambitious action plan to ensure the future of the automotive sector in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u108	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. It's inexcusable today to start talking about poetry, it seems to be the norm. And I return to Cernuda and to reality and to desire, which the truth is that it applies to any economic sector of the current productive economy of this autonomous community. But, well, beyond poetry, it also happens that the interventions of the members of the People's Party to me always wake me up new, relevant intellectual horizons. We heard this morning that speeches had no ideology. The truth is, I was met by my colleague Julius Torrado. My yes, uh, I want to solemnly declare here that my speech does have ideology, my budgets are not management. And we're in a democratically elected Parliament if anyone thinks it's a country life on the French Riviera, no, it's a Parliament with ideology and politics. [[Applause]] On the other day a candidate who seems to be the president of New Generations at the state level made truly surprising statements, which, in fact, repeat the pronouncements in another part of the ideological spectrum that surprised me the same, I have to say, that they are: "I am neither right nor left, I am in common sense and tolerant." I have the feeling that only the Spanish Socialist Workers Party will be left behind. Well, and the Galician Nationalist Block in the case of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, I'm very worried about so much transversality. [[Murmurs.]] It has to do with automotive and it has to do with poetry. Benedetti said — and I say it in Spanish — at the end of a poem: "Jodi and radiant, perhaps more first than the second and also vice versa." Fucking radiant. In this case, I want to give you some brief economic data to see who is one thing and another. Invoicing in the sector has already reached the levels of the year 2008, employment is 1,800 jobs less and the average wage is 10% less. I think that it's a class struggle -- Warren Buffet said they were going to win -- because there are some who are fucked up and some who are radiant. We all know what they are. I don't think there's a need for depth in this matter. And in this context of competing, in the end, via wages — which is a political decision, it is not a management decision, it is a political decision that is based on government budgets — in the automotive sector, Galicia, which has a very important industrial pole — I will not question that because it is obvious — I think it is losing positions in relation to northern Portugal. And I believe that the industrial policy of the People's Party corresponds to its ideology, which is that the best industrial policy is that which does not exist. That's not what Abel Losada invented, nor is it a left Marxist phrase. It's a sentence from a deregulation right that understands that markets have to assign productive factors to maximize their profits. And there is no doubt that Portugal, in terms of wages, is worse than us for the workers and, of course, much better for the entrepreneurs. And on the industrial floor, we are undoubtedly in an enormously disadvantaged position. There is a report by the consultant Roland Berger on average industrial floor prices in northern Portugal and Galicia that I recommend to the honourable Members and Members of Parliament — but especially those of the People's Party — that they see it if they have not seen it, because it is — I insist — particularly illustrative. And while there's a policy in Portugal clearly proactive to the installation of factories linked to the automotive sector, in Galicia what we're going to teach it. This isn't this weekend, it's from the past, this picture is from a country that's in pre-drought, that's Plisán, that's exactly Plisán. I don't know if it looks right. This is Plisán, and, as you know, we're in advance of drought. This is the place they were going to watch for drones to see how the works were going. I think they almost need a submarine more than drones to see how the works go. [[Applause]] So, all this publicity speech and propaganda is unheard of. And the unheard-to-see thing the other day when the speech told by the Cluster gentlemen is that this goes well. Because it's fine for them, because there's a bill equal to the year 2008. But there are 1,800 workers less and 10% less than the average wage. For the set of workers in the south of the province of Pontevedra goes wrong, as much as Mr. Counsellor tells us about Industry 4.0, vanguard technology, the internet of things, 3D printing and everything he wants. I mean, you can tell us all about it, but it's actually wrong. And what we really want is that it's going a little better. And by the way, there are many ways to act. We have tabled an amendment to addendum that has to do with, above all, the subjects of training. Because it is there and in innovation — and we will have time to talk over these issues — it is in training, where we actually have the capacity to compete.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u111	It's over, Mr. President. We split it between training for the unemployed, for the unemployed and for the dual FP, because we believe it is necessary to cover the whole fan. And the proof that with this system some are fucked up and others are radiant is: aren't you surprised that in 2016 the training calls for employees were not opened and that the entrepreneurs in this country didn't protest?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u112	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u113	Aren't you surprised?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u115	Yes, to me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u116	No, no, no, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u117	I do. I think it would be very good if they had thought about it and about Mario Benedetti. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u118	This is like the poem, this time is "joined" for everyone. [[Laughter]] Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u119	Good afternoon. I won't waste my time. I mean a couple of brief questions. First, it's true that it's the logic in a parliament that the opposition denounces what seems to be wrong and that the government removes its relevance. That's inside the logic. But once they say it's not so bad... please think. Today they vote against it, but when they get out, they talk about why the workers and the workers in Pescanova are protesting, they talk about why we've been suffering from a deindustrialization process for eight or nine years. They say why in Portugal there is news every day of a new industrial project linked to the car and in Galicia there is news every day of the loss of employment in the sector. There's a problem, and I'm not saying the problem had been caused by the People's Party, but there's a problem. This country has a problem, Vigo has a problem. And we have to find a solution on the line of what the BNG is proposing, what the Socialist Party is proposing, what we can think of, what Mr. Rueda said. There's a problem, they suggest something. And I wanted to say that it's happening in the car, like in the rest of the industry, a change in the business organization model. That means that the assembler plant -- in the naval, in the car -- has fewer workers and fewer workers, because it's surrounded by an industrial district, a supplier park, which provides the most important percentage of the car, the boat, etc. We've got the assembly plant, but for eight years there hasn't been a single company of automotive components in Galicia. And at that time dozens of plants were installed in Portugal. Our assembly plant has won the competitions for new vehicles and that's a success for the country. But most of the job that will build the components that will be assembled in Vigo will be in Portugal. And there's a problem. I'm going to talk to BNG. I like Luis Bará's intervention more than the motion, because in the motion there is a real problem, and there is a situation of competition — I have used that expression — which is unequal between Galicia and northern Portugal; an unequal competition because certain elements of competitiveness are used in Portugal. What do I mean by this? For right now, if you see the paper, you can see social and economic agents who are suggesting that Portuguese competition is based on elements that should be denounced before the European Union because they do not properly meet the rules of free competition. In that sense, we make a proposal to add an addition to the initiative, to the BNG motion, to put forward an alternative idea, which is the following. We are a euro region, we have the assembly plant — and I have a note here that has happened to me and I wanted to say now that I don't know if they know but the Portuguese authorities, when they want to sell Portugal as the seat of the installation of TESLA in Europe, put as great merit of Portugal their proximity to the assembly plant in Vigo—well, we need or better solve the problems of unequal competition or either articulate a Euroregion strategy that, together, in a harmonised way, seeks that the new investments that are taking place in the car do not all fall on the same side of the rail and that we are able to share these investment processes. In that sense, on the BNG proposal we make this motion to talk about the real problem we are living today immediately. Because the idea of R & D here, about aid, seems good to us, but it seems to us that it elucidates a subject that is — in our opinion — the main risk to the sector, employment, economic activity and Vigo's own industrial structure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u120	Thank you, Mr. Lago. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u121	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The automotive sector is a key and strategic sector in our economy. In 2016 it represented about 15% of national car production; invoicing increased by 1.6%, to 8.320 million euros; in employment, 750 new direct workers; in investment, 237 million; in R+D+i, 100 million euros compared to 66 million euros in 2015. The German Government is in direct and permanent contact, through the Automobile Cluster, and always acts in support of this sector, even though you always question such support. The Union, of course, is not passive, is in progress for the sector, for the workers, for the work and, of course, for the companies as well. Ladies and gentlemen, you bring a number of initiatives and proposals in this motion for this sector. Well, I'm going to do what I'm going to do is expose briefly not only proposals but facts that this government is carrying out, facts that are realities, with results and data. The government is working on innovation, quality, experience and competitiveness; always improving our companies to be more competitive, to manufacture with the best costs and a better quality/price relationship. Because what we're not going to be competing in wages and precarious our workers is not. We have a clear commitment to the sector but not at any price. At the first point, they collect the initiatives that the Union is taking. We have an agenda of competitiveness, which is Galicia Industry 4.0, which applies to the whole of the Galician industry and which is committed to all social agents, which has the challenge of increasing the weight of industry and generating jobs in search of greater professionalism. Between 2017 and 2018 more than 175 million euros will be invested through Industry 4.0. Always betting on Industry 4.0. Why? Because it allows us to be more competitive. This competitiveness agenda empowers R & D+i in collaboration with companies, universities and technology centres. And it's precisely the goal of the joint units that two years ago set in motion for the Union. These units will generate high-quality jobs, not precarious jobs. The Galician Automotion Technology Centre is present in two of the new PSA units. It will design and launch a pilot facility that will reflect evolution towards Industry 4.0. With Visa you will get high-performance seat armor. And another joint unit is born from the AIMEN and GKN alliance. Is this jeopardizing the sector? This government is also working to preserve labour rights, to facilitate agreements in the labour market and, as otherwise, in training. 86.2 million euros are allocated, i.e. 21.6% more than in 2016. The commitment is clear, we want trained workers for a sector that is also highly competitive. Because you talk about the working conditions of the workers, and they insist that since 2009 the government of the PP is the great destroyer of these rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the strategy of the Union to compete is based on innovation and not on the devaluation of labour costs. But there's a contradiction that defuses his speech. If it were true that the Government has allowed these devaluations of working conditions, if it is true what they say that labour reforms have created a kind of capitalism according to multinationals, if it is true that the Government is at the service of large companies giving them all kinds of condoms, why are they afraid they will go to Portugal? Do they claim that a country with a left-wing government, that you take as a model, is making policies that consist of precarious working conditions and in a prebend to companies that go beyond that kind of neoliberal hell that have been supporting in Galicia for years? Ladies and gentlemen, or the industrial reality of Galicia is not how they paint it, or the policies of left-wing governments are not what they tell us. They lie in one thing or they lie in another, or they lie in both. [[Applause]] As far as industrial floor policy is concerned, we are talking about developing the possibility of acquiring land through surface rights with an annual cannon, land bonuses up to 50%, promoting a business implementation promotion law that allows greater administrative simplification, facilitating investment, restructuring the regulations that affect industry facilities, collaborating with Fegamp and collaborating with those municipalities that bet on industrialization. We'll see here the participation in this project of your Town Councils. Now stop it, say there's an industrial policy in the field of clear, transparent and solid automotive. The adjudication of new PSA models, a thousand more jobs, development of the autonomous vehicle, 3,000 million euros of investment for the auxiliary industry... finally, facts and results that five minutes are insufficient to expose this good management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u122	Thank you, Mrs. New. Author group of the motion, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u123	I'm still recovering from my drug dealing after listening to fellow Abel Losada — cordially — who spoke here that it turns out now it seems that only the Socialist Party will be left-handed at the state level. I don't know if this is a fact, whether it's an alternative thing, or what it is. After the policies they've been doing in the state when they've had opportunities for government, because this expression stays a little... calm, calm, that we'll also talk about the People's Party! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Yeah, we don't all think the same here. Don't get confused, we don't all think the same. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Murmurs.]] It does not surprise me at all, I am not at all surprised at the position of the People's Party because, in fact, less than ten months ago in this Parliament, unanimously, an agreement that said: "The Galician Parliament, urges the Galician Union to promote new joint actions of collaboration between public administrations, technology and knowledge centres and the representative associations of automotive companies to set industrial fabric in the Galician sector and avoid displacement to other geographic areas, enabling appropriate support in innovation, industrial and internationalization so that businesses improve their competitiveness both locally and globally, and continue to create wealth and employment in Galicia with a future vocation". Ten months ago you voted in favour of this initiative. Of all this that has been shaped here they have done nothing, so now they can't vote another similar initiative again. What they do in practice here is to focus on Mr. Count's triumphal speech and make a complete amendment to the speech — which we think is more realistic — of Mr. Rueda, who recognized that there was an important problem in this matter. You say there's no problem, it's all right, it's got a lot of help, and that these aids, in addition, are a guarantee of business stay in the territory, a guarantee of job conservation, labour and salary rights. But reality doesn't say that. The reality is that the companies are marching north of Portugal, and the new companies that are setting up, are moving north of Portugal. Tell us here that they're making a new industrial floor policy with a set of measures, but the reality is that it's not giving any results because companies are marching. They're talking about CTAG, but the reality is that it's an excuse for precariousness too. With regard to the amendments made by the other groups, with regard to En Marea, to the establishment of the table of the sector where different agents are present, we believe that it is implicit in the text of our proposal. In any case, we have no problem with specifying this issue. We don't share that kind of romantic idea that we have to have a strategy combined with northern Portugal; it may look very nice, but it's not realistic. We have to have our own country strategy to defend the sector, so we're not going to accept this. With regard to the amendments of the Socialist Party, to promote agreements between auxiliary automotive companies and trade unions on wages and working conditions, we also believe that it is implicit in our text. To denounce Portugal we will not accept it as an amendment. In any case, the Government has already announced here that they are going to open a consultation, an investigation, in this regard. We will accept the amendments with regard to training plans. And we have no problem either — because the Socialist Group has said so — in a separate vote on some of the points, specifically on the third point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u124	Thank you, Mr Bará. G.P. motion. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Marcos Cal Ogando and Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the establishment of an agreement between the Government of Galicia and the Ministry of Development for the maintenance of existing railway services in Galicia, as well as the extension and improvement of the railway network
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u125	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr. Cal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u126	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We have discussed rail transport on many occasions in the parliamentary debate which we have seen taking place since the beginning of the legislation on infrastructure and mobility, and the railway is being one of the main subjects of debate. Both in Commission 2nd and here in plenary, the opposition groups have brought many initiatives concerning the need to improve rail transport in the country. This answers to a logic. It's not a whim or a whim of opposition groups, it's a question that rail transport is the best bet on public transport in Galicia. All the indicators show it very clearly and without any doubt, but in Galicia all that potential is not being used. It's about moving forward in a safer, more economical, more comfortable, more energy-efficient and more beneficial fight against climate change. We have already talked on numerous occasions about the benefits of rail with regard to other means of transport. Faced with two of the greatest challenges we are facing as a society, climate change and the depletion of fossil fuels, only what we know as alternative mobility, walking or bicycle displacements, exceed the rail in energy efficiency and fight against climate change. The White Paper on European Transport aims to reduce 60% of CO2 emissions in transport, and this can only be achieved by changing infrastructure policies and by wagering for the alternative mobility of transport of goods and passengers by rail. Moving a person on the road means emissions of CO2 -- the main cause of global warming -- three times as much as being done on rail, according to data from the European Environment Agency. And in the case of commodities, the difference is even more charged. Moving a ton over a kilometer emits six times more CO2 if you do it in a truck than you would emit if you do it on a railway. We're talking about very powerful, very significant data, which leaves no doubt about it. Rail transport is the most sustainable of conventional transport, and in the face of road shifts, the difference is overwhelming. We need to dynamize the railway and not continue to bet on high-capacity roads and individual motor transport. Another issue of enormous importance when we discuss mobility, transport and infrastructure is that of road safety. Galicia is one of the most loving autonomous communities. Last year, 2016, there were 107 dead, 15 more than the previous year. And we're also the second community with more pedestrians and cyclists from all over the state. It's data about this government's failure in road safety. Transport in Galicia is not safe, we are the autonomous community that lies at the queue of road safety in the state. Here, normally, there are arguments in favour of the need to dynamize rail transport. Studies indicate that the railway dramatically reduces the risk of injury or death by users in general. Statistics say that the number of deaths per billion passengers/kilometre in the European Union is 0.2 by rail, 0.4 by plane and 8.7 by road. In other words, the road is 43 times more dangerous than the railway mode, even though governments are making these results worse by removing safety systems from the railway lines. So it's very important, from the perspective of road safety, to increase the use of rail transport in Galicia, but not only do the lines have to eliminate risk factors such as steps at the level or implementing additional safety systems such as those recommended in the curve where the Alvia accident occurred. Walking in the wake of the greatest possible railway potential in Galicia is not a whim, it's not a theme. We are talking about a question that will be extremely socially, economically and environmentally beneficial to our country, and there is no rational argument that determines that we are wrong in this proposal. There is no scientifically supported argument that indicates the opposite, and we do not know by the Government any question that explains why the deterioration of rail transport and the lack of ambition to put the railway to work at its greatest potential in Galicia. We have no arguments that determine why this is happening. Today we bring this motion, as a result of the interpellation of the whole past in which we were talking about the intention of Promoting to withdraw the presence of attention in different Greek villages — and the Infrastructure Council has been working in secret to maintain these services — and we focus on it from the perspective of seeking an inflexion point in infrastructure policies, a possible commitment of all the groups represented here, and working decisively on improving rail transport in Galicia. And since all these skills are at Fomento today, what we intend to achieve is a pact of the groups represented here to urge the Development to which it is gradually affecting the most urgent actions. Among them are more expensive issues, from the budgetary point of view, but there are others that are much less, which depend on rail improvements being a strategic issue for the Greek Government, and you can already go ahead with practically no investment. On the one hand, we ask to shield the existing railway services so that we don't have to see ourselves again in a situation like these past months, where Fomento, Adif and Renfe were trying to close the sale of tickets and the presence of attention in different Welsh villages. We also consider that there are several steps that need immediate action to improve travel times and frequencies, thus improving their performance, such as the Lugo-Oriente line, the Coruña-Ferrol line or the Febe network, lines of the last century that need to be adapted to new times to increase users as a result of improved citizenship service. The improvement in the frequencies of the Atlantic axis is also reflected in this motion, which we have already talked about in other parliamentary debates and which could not be budgeted. In fact, there is a proposal that the railway unions handed over to Renfe months ago, which would improve frequencies, making better use of both the material and personal assets of the company, and could not afford any budgetary effort. The exit south of the Atlantic axis, where we have already adopted some initiatives and where we already have agreement on the role, is another of the issues we have introduced in this proposal for an improvement in rail dynamisation in Galicia. Finally, as far as transporting goods is concerned, we have virtually everything to do. The usage data of this service says that we are very far away from what we can understand as optimal, is almost non-existent. We're about 3% using rail for transport. The Greek network is not designed to enhance the transport of goods by rail, and we are disconnected from the European freight corridor. Like so many other times, Galicia stays out. We also propose to work to climb Galicia to that progress train for the country. The motion we present would be: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to seek an agreement with Fomento to shield the railway services with which Galicia is already counting and working on the gradual expansion and improvement of our railway network, as they are: improvement in the times of the route of the Lugo-Ourense connection; improvements in the Feb line; then the Atlantic axis to Ferrol and the southern exit; improvement in the frequencies of the Atlantic axis; the dynamization of the transport of goods by rail; the connection to the European axis of goods or the lower price of travel to increase use." At the moment, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u127	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u128	BNG's position with respect to the railway is well known; it's a position we've been defending historically. I remember when in the 1990s we showed up at the stations not only to defend the AVE, but above all to defend the proximity networks, the nearby train. So our position can be summed up in three big axes. Firstly, the need, the importance, of the large medium- and long-distance infrastructures for both the transport of people and goods. So the connection to the Meseta, the connection to Europe and Portugal. Secondly, the necessary and most important modernization and expansion of the conventional network of connections between the cities and the towns of Galicia, especially by the modernization of the connections between The Coruña and Ferrol and Lugo and The Coruña. And thirdly, the creation of the proximity railway service, which we understand must be managed by the Greek Government. Therefore, there must be a determined railway bet as a fundamental public service for articulation, for vertebration, for territorial development and as a form of clean, safe, sustainable mobility, with great social, economic and environmental benefits. The reality is, in view of this, we have a situation of deterioration, dismantling, disappearance of lines, services, stations, etc. This has begun for some time now, but it has been accentuated especially since 2013, with the Government's approved Rationalization Plan, which has led to the suppression of 22% of services, the closure of 20 stations, with 24 others also losing more and more frequencies, more services. So this shows that globally it's not in the Government's agenda, and it only appears in the agenda when there is a public complaint by the political groups or by the media, when there is social pressure, for example, because of the delay in the work of the AVE. Then there's a cloak, an attempt, a scenario that you're talking about with the Government, but there's really no political or budget bet to strengthen, to empower, the railway. We have just discussed in the Infrastructure Commission the situation in which, for example, the Coruña-Ferrol line, the need for modernisation and investments to bring it up to grips with what must be a 21st century infrastructure, a service. Also the case of the line between Lugo and La Coruña, or the case of the necessary modernization of the connection with Portugal, the southern exit of Vigo, the modernization of the line, the electrification of the part of the line that has not yet been electrified, the improvement of tracing and security, the removal of steps at level etc. Not to mention what happens to the old Fever, which we know is also in a process of dismantling, of slow death, of disappearance, with such scandalous situations as there are no machine drivers for machines, that there are no machines, that are broken and that people have to be taken by buses or taxis because the trains don't work. Not to mention the transport of goods, which is also disappearing. So we're seeing as while other communities -- 11 across the state -- actually have a modern nearby train, which works with schedules, frequency, services and cheaper prices, in Galicia nothing at all, there's no bet on the train. We defend, in this sense, that there has to be a nearby German train and that it has to be a train managed directly by the German Government. The sad and dramatic reality, therefore, is that we are in a process of dismantling the railway services by the central government that counts with the collaboration and applause — or with the passivity, at least — of the Galician Union because it says nothing about it. We are in the vicious circle, therefore, that frequencies are suppressed, that schedules are suppressed, that services are deleted, that merchandise transport is also suppressed, and therefore that demand is lowered, that use is justified in removing, that lines have to be dismantled. We, of course, do not agree with these railway designs. I think there's a great social demand, that there's a social, economic and environmental need to bet on the train. Especially when you fill your mouth with policies against climate change, you have to be consistent, you have to be consistent, and you have to bet on the railway. And as it was demonstrated in that social, institutional struggle, against the attempt to eliminate the sale of tickets and the attention of people at the stations, we're not going to allow it. There will be social pressure in favour of the train, we will not allow you to continue with this line of dismantling and disappearance of railway services in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u129	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. The Socialist Group will support this initiative of En Marea. This is going to be the country's legislation. I'm sure you remember this sentence, I'm sure you remember the author of it, and I'm sure, too, that you remember the scene and the context in which it happened. Let's remember. The scene was this hemicycle. The context was the adoption of the Galician budgets for 2017. And the author of it was Mr. Núñez Feijóo. A solemn phrase, on a solemn scenario and in a solemn context. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall be allowed to interpret this solemnity as an express recognition of the President in the sense that the earlier legislates, VIII and IX, in which he was president of successive governments, meant the forgetfulness, the forgetfulness of the rural in his policies. I'm saying this because if you don't solemnize a regular line of work, the exceptional one is solemnized. And the exceptional, therefore, without the recognized past, is the manifestation that this will be the legislation of the rural. The claim of this sentence recognises the absence of rural life in previous legislation. By the way, militaryly repeated in the days and weeks after the various public and organic, institutional and organic positions of the People's Party in the media. They will allow me to consider this sentence as an advertising slogan that marks the start of the municipal elections for the People's Party. We fear that the permanent and constant publicity of this slogan calls for the lack of commitments and investments in rural areas. A rural environment — 97% of the territory of Greece — according to which the Counsellor in her presence recognized this very morning, where 20% of the population is settled. A rural environment — I say — receiving great praise and scarce resources. A rural object of laws, decrees and orders that are never fulfilled in a positive way. And a rural man punished by laws, decrees and orders of governments of the People's Party who, in addition, comply with the registrable. Because the goal of the People's Government is that the praises, the ads, the words and the good guy replace the investments. [[Applause]] The truth is that rural legislation has lasted a very short time. The plea that prompted this motion was recorded only a few days after the sousto slogan that he prayed about the policy of the Galician Union in connection with the closure of the sale to the public of tickets and services to the traveller at various railway stations. This turned out to be the first step to negate the slogan, only failed by popular action and by the action of municipal governments, trade unions and opposition groups. By the way, already in the previous legislate, in the past legislate, we attended the government's theme, or the convolence of the Greek Government presided over by Mr. Feijóo, engaged both to dismantle railway mobility in short- and half-distance lines, closing stations, reducing stops, suppressing itineraries and modifying schedules, which were so much damaged in the towns and villages. But the carousel of dismantlings and aggressions to the countryside continues. Thus, in these days we attend the announcement of the closure of land registers in intermediate villages, causing an extension of services to rural citizens. Also the announcement of a reduction of opening days to the public by financial entities in towns and villages. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no limits to the countryside, no finals, and in the meantime, the Government is theorizing. The dismantling of the traditional train, the removal of property records and the reduction of service lines of banking institutions in rural areas seem to be the first initiatives of the People's Government in this legislation called the Government as the legislation of rural areas. A sentence as often repeated as often denied by the facts of this government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u131	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u132	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. First of all, I would like to remind you — although once you hear the appearances don't look like it — that we are talking about a motion that is the result of an interpellation that was made in the past to the Infrastructure Advisor on the sale to the public and the care of travellers at various railway stations in Galicia. A matter, as it became clear, Mr. Fernández, which is already settled. In addition, he confirmed by letter, clearly, the ministry that will not abolish any service of care and sale of tickets nor will railway terminals be closed. I can't even confirm it, either, if there's no record of the property in Galicia. Don't lie, please! None of them, none of them. You'll be able to follow your way to the Walls, going to everyone, no problem at all. [[Applause]] Don't lie, please. Nor, as it became clear, will the sale of tickets be closed at any station. That's why the other day we've talked about other things, and that's why we've also come here today to talk about many other things that have nothing to do with interpellation. As for the new design of this motion, we talk about a lot of things. Here's a list of subjects all of state competence, I want to remind you. It's all insulating, insulating... i.e., competences aren't autonomous. Obviously, the Galician Union is awaiting these powers, will continue to be pending and will continue to demand all that it can and will be for the benefit of the Greeks to the Central Government, but we must be clear when we submit these requests and talk about certain policies of the Self-Government. In any case, I've already said that the People's Party's commitment to the railway is no less than that of any other group. It's more, I'd say it's bigger, as it's proven over the years. And we'll remain vigilant and committed to these issues when it's done with rigor and seriousness, not when you put a lot of things out the back door. Speaking of some of the things you spoke about in your presentation — today you have put even more topics than you have in the motion — you yourself recognized that most of these issues have already come to this House or to Commission 2nd, and in addition to proposals far more concrete, much more complete and ambitious than those you are currently putting forward in the motion. And when they're concrete, we come to agreements, as you remembered and as they remembered those of the other groups. In particular, the Lugo-Ourense train by Monforte is a concrete proposal by the Popular Group, which has already incorporated into the program and which is going to continue to lead and push so that we can put the Place on a horizon of about three hours with Madrid, like other Greek cities. And we're going to follow, in addition, with the horizon of going to put some of those construction improvements already in operation, so as to allow the connection between Lugo and Ourense to be lowered as soon as possible. The same can be said of the train to Ferrol. Once unanimously adopted by the groups in the committee, it is another of the People's Group's commitments in its electoral programme, another of the subjects, like the Lugo train, which was already in January at the meeting of the Chair of the Board with the Minister of Development and which has been working on the Council of Galicia for a long time, as it shows that even yesterday the study has been adjugated so that this strategy can be clear, so that this route not only connects Ferrol with the Atlantic axis and the lines with the Meseta, but also is a good structural element of its entire metropolitan area. The same as the theme of the Feb, which is already demanded by the Council, does not have to come the En Marea group with the solution of these problems and the improvement of this Feb, this narrow-track train, by the Navy and the rest of northern Galicia. He incorporated, he said, the southern exit of Vigo and the improvement of the train to Porto. Twice, we already have two far more extensive approvals, much more concrete and ambitious, than it brings us here today. And I remember that what Portugal is going to do now is get technologically at the level of the Spanish line. There's only five miles left between Guillarei and Tui for electrification. The project is designed and sent to coordinate the Portuguese Government. And there's a clear commitment to going together and homogenizing the two lines once Portugal goes ahead with this work. So first, I strongly deny statements by some of the groups, especially the BNG when it speaks of dismantling and complicity. It doesn't exist and I deny the biggest. But on the other hand, we can only remind them that the motion they present...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u133	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u134	Conclusion: It comes from an interpellation, from a topic, which is already settled. And Junta is and will continue to work for the improvement of all that is the rail transport network in Galicia. These themes have already been approved by the groups unanimously, and when they are done with concretion and with responsible work, and given these arguments, we cannot support this motion. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u135	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. For the motion's own group, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u136	Thank you, President. They can't support her, no; they don't want to support her. They can support it, because, as you have said, many of the issues that are being raised in this motion have already been adopted by the committee and, therefore, the only ones that would remain would be the dynamization of the transport of goods and the Atlantic axis, practically. So I don't understand why he says they can't support this motion. In this motion — as you said — out of the question, which was a specific issue — the intention is to seek a pact, a sort of pact of this Parliament, to continue working on the dynamization of this service. And what I was trying to do was to pick up those issues that we believe are most important, more urgent, that many of them are budgeted not to be too difficult and that some of them, of course, were already approved. That is why we understood that, by collecting all these proposals, there would be no problem. But the evidence is that you don't want to acquire that commitment. The issue of the transport of goods is very clear, and the need to attach ourselves to the European corridor. Here's a map. Obviously you don't see it but I tell you: there's the Mediterranean corridor and the Atlantic corridor, but the Atlantic corridor forgets Galicia. And it would be fundamental for Galicia to be able to stick to this corridor. We don't understand why the Infrastructure Council has not been working in that direction and Galicia is allowed to be discriminated against and to stay behind on this issue. Another reason why we wanted to make this kind of pact and get this motion forward that included a little bit of all these issues is because the People's Party has turned the LNP into a literary resource of fiction. Obviously, although motions are adopted in committees, the history of the People's Party is full of GNPs which are approved and which are then not executed. That is why this motion goes in that direction to try to seek that commitment to be able to follow these different issues. There's another topic that they leave out and in what they say they can't compromise, which is the improvement in the frequencies of the Atlantic axis. And there's no rational reason why these improvements can't be achieved in the Atlantic axis. As I said in my first speech, there's a proposal on the rail union table that would not cost any more and would improve the service. So we just have one question left. If there is no rational reason from the point of view of the general interest that tells us that the frequencies of the Atlantic axis should not be improved, there is only one reason left: that not to improve the frequencies of the Atlantic axis assumes a benefit for AUDASA, that it reimburses every year tens of millions of euros for the rates of AP-9, and that it also provides a benefit for the builders who appear in the papers of Bárcenas and who have already begun the works of A-57. If there are no rational reasons, if you don't put rational reasons on the table that indicate it's not beneficial...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u137	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u138	... already finished—to improve the service, of course, that we are very badly thought out, because we think that someone is enriching on this issue. If you want us not to think that, please put serious arguments on the table why you don't want to improve rail transport in Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u139	Thank you, Mr. Cal. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of equality in work between women and men
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u140	Two amendments were tabled to this motion: an amendment by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea and one by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u141	To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u142	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me, first of all, move the Socialist Group's solidarity with the Pescanova workers, who are these days having a hard time, our solidarity, our support and, of course, that we will be next to them in these difficult times. [[Applause]] This month, ladies and gentlemen, ten years of two historical milestones are covered by the approval of two very important laws for our country: the Law of Equality, passed under the rule of Mr. Zapatero, and the Law of Equality at Work, under the rule of Mr. Touriño. Two very important laws that would allow us to advance in women's employability and tear that glass roof and fight against job insecurity if it wasn't because the People's Party, when it arrived in the Government, both in Madrid and Galicia, dedicated itself to cryogenicizing them and leaving orphans of budgeting these two subjects. Here, after all, ladies and gentlemen, despite what we heard today in the morning, we came to talk about politics. And so, according to the policies that are being put in place and according to how it is legislated, it can be a factory of creation and consolidation of rights, as were the governments of the Socialist Party, or it can be a destructive machine or even a breakdown of rights, as were the policies of the People's Party for this country; and, in particular, when we talk about equality. Today we're going to start trying to reverse this situation with a very complete motion. The truth is, I don't think I have time to sort out all his points. I'll try as much as I can. This motion is the result of the question put forward in the previous plenary session. I remember that day I started my speech by mentioning a member of the European Parliament who considered women to be less charged because we were weaker, smaller and less intelligent. I naively said I was convinced that I wouldn't hear this here. Well, that same day, less than half an hour from this House, a mayor, the mayor of Noia, insulted, missed all the women in this country. Even today we were surprised and outraged more by comparing their machismo, the machismo of the People's Party, with something as simple and as good as the Welsh retreat. Nothing has to do with machismo, ladies and gentlemen, two things are completely different and even antagonistic. [[Applause]] But as I told you, we're going to the motion itself. The first point is the need to set up a employment plan. We believe it is very important to incorporate inactive and stopped women. Note that since Mr. Feijóo's government arrived, 32,900 employees have been lost in Galicia. And all the data I'm going to give in this intervention are from the IGE, from the last quarter of 2016, not from the Socialist Party. We need to increase quality and safety at work. Women right now in Galicia have a bias four times greater than men, which is no longer limited at this time. There is a need to reduce gender inequalities in incorporation into certain sectors. So, for example, in services, a sector with great precariousness, we're majority, in others, like construction, only 8 out of 100 people are women, a very low percentage. We have to reduce the wage gap: there is an annual difference of almost 5,000 euros per year on average between what men and women charge in this country. We must promote entrepreneurship, support sectors with a high rate of female presence, and enhance reconciliation. Yes, because the data tell us that 90% of the people who ask for, for example, excess care for children or children are still women. This equality plan is urgent because the Government of the People's Party has suppressed the plan of Mr. Touriño, of the evil two-party government, and that's why we want it to be launched urgently in the first half of 2017. We must also support equality plans not only in a technical way, but also in an economic way. We do not want these incentives to be gifts, we want them to be support, very important support. And we know they don't guarantee equality in many companies. We have the case that Mrs. Prado Cores has brought here on numerous occasions, which I would like to mention, which is that of Nelida Pisco. It was a woman who was one of the first bus drivers to have been in Galicia, a woman who, despite having had a plan of equality in that company, did not serve to free her from the mobbling and labor harassment to which she was subjected. Control must also be intensified by the Labour Inspectorate, a Labour Inspectorate who must collaborate with the Galician Board with a single window for the reception of consultations and complaints. Look, ladies and gentlemen, last year we read in a media medium—and I apologize for the words but they are published in a media medium—not this lady—an announcement requiring a waitress for Orders: "The bar waitress for village is needed at an hour of Santiago and fifteen minutes of Arzua and Ordines. Unusual working, responsible, beautiful and a little slut." This, ladies and gentlemen, is published in a medium that has quite a roll, an important medium in this country. What you mean is that if you see this machismo at the public level, imagine -- I love that there are some Members of the People's Group who are pleased with this. Setting up a single window is of vital importance to the conjunction of these complaints and to make queries as well. Well, with this data, the Labour Inspectorate has done 34 actions in this autonomous community. Integration also needs to be enhanced in vocational training. In the active employment policies, the situation of rural women and the maritime-fishing sector must be prioritized. And, ladies and gentlemen, although I have little time, let me stop here. Women are only 28.6% in this sector, under precarious conditions. And today I want to talk about Magdalena here. Magdalena is a seamstress in Pontevedra's creek to whom, after amputating a breast — the right breast, in particular — and contrary to the criteria of her head doctor and her oncologist, Social Security has lifted her up; a woman who is working eight hours to remove memes from the water, in precarious conditions, with great difficulty in movement, without even caring to the Minister of Health, who has already received her request from the Patient's Ombudsman, or this government. Doesn't seem to care about anybody. And today we do want to remember her, and also ask that, please — now that there is no one in the Government here — if they take letters on this matter and in any case contact with the Government of Spain to try to solve this situation. Despite the visibility that have cases like Magdalena's, a certain negationism still exists. And, therefore, it is necessary to continue to invest and tell what is happening, such as, for example, in the wage divide, and to make an effort for publications, an effort to disseminate monographs — by setting an example, on February 22, which is the Day for Pay Equality between Men and Women. There is also a crack to ascend, with a glass ceiling that has become for many women of this country in a concrete ceiling, lords, impossible to break, impossible to break. 65% of companies in this autonomous community have no incorporated directive. It is necessary and we must therefore remain vigilant with the composition of the board of directors of companies, betting on the female entrepreneurship. A very important part of labour policy in this country is based on the Government of Spain, and therefore we also want to lay down duties to send to Madrid. We already know that there is agreement in this House with regard to urging the Government of Spain on the Equal Pay Act. We don't know if he's been on his way to Padarnelo or finally arrived in Madrid. We hope so. We must continue to move forward, and we cannot be stuck in proposals that have already been adopted in this House. Today we want to go one step further and talk, too, why not, ladies and gentlemen, about the social distribution of domestic chores and, once and for all, about the recognition of maternal mobility, those women who simply as mothers are suffering discrimination at their jobs. As I told you at the beginning of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, the laws made by the socialists before leaving the Government of Spain and the Government of the Council of Galicia, despite the fact that some of the Members of the People's Party, even if they benefit from them, do not like them, remain unwelcome. We just want to take the necessary measures now to achieve compliance with them, to achieve the latest compliance, which must be in the labour market, equality between men and women. And nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u144	Good afternoon. First of all, I would like to say to you, Mrs Blanco, that if we are going to support your initiative, even if you do not accept or do not compromise the many amendments — actually more than one — that we have done. And we're going to do it because we agree with the need for public authorities to exercise their powers in the promotion of equality in work. We know that, as you yourself stated, approving this employment plan is not going to be enough. But it's going to be an important point. And what this is about is to comply with a law that Parliament itself has passed. In addition, it is fundamental because reality remains the unequal distribution of work, and we are talking both about the waged work and the times used for the tasks of home, those so forgotten and so feminized, and also about the persistence — and here we want to highlight — of limitations to the full integration of women into the field of work. We highlight this because it seems important to us to point out that in the so-called wage divide what exists are structural causes that cause it, and that's where our amendment goes. We also want to highlight, as we always do in this gallery when we talk about wage inequality, that the maintenance of the wage divide, the pension gap, or the breakdown in the distribution of times of care and domestic work—remunerated precariously or unpaid—, both cracks, what they are translating, is the social message that women are worth less. This inflates certain people to think that the Welsh retreat is to make macho jokes. If we go deep, this is at the root of multiple macho violence. Anyway, I'm not going to go into the data, which has already been broken enough, I'm just saying that all this data, all these indicators that are negative to women about... [[Murmurs.]] It's very hard to talk here, really. [[Murmurs.]] Well, he said that all this data of women's negative differential as compared to wages, what he does is to feminize poverty, in the figure of wage poverty... [[Murmurs.]] I'll keep talking even if I don't know what I'm saying. [[Murmurs.]] Just one of the data I wanted to highlight is that, according to a study by the IGC... [[Murmurs.]] Will you give me another minute?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u145	Quiet, quiet! Quiet, please! Let's keep it up. Go ahead. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u146	Sorry, I'm being respectful.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u147	Silence, Mr. Romero, please, silence. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, but we're not going to argue with him. Mrs Vázquez Verao is speaking, and we will respect him. Quiet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u148	I thought I heard an insult from this side, I hope it wasn't like that. Well, according to a study by the IGC, at present — as Mrs Noela Blanco pointed out — there are fewer employees than in 2009, and in all levels of income, but above all in the lowest. As it turns out, 20% of the employees in Wales enter less than half of the SMI. I wanted to highlight this because we are continually talking about feminization of poverty. And this, in addition to the poverty of working life, is that there are poor elderly women. The biggest women in our country are the poorest in the state. It also includes monomantal families being among the most vulnerable groups, with half of them at risk of poverty. It also shows that women with functional diversity have on their own a lower rate of activity than other people with functional diversity. Women have a situation of great vulnerability. Finally, we agree with the need to take measures to make this crack disappear. We also agreed on the subject of studies. It seems very important to us that the bodies, for example the ESC and the Galego Labour Relations Council, do these studies, update what has happened ten years ago on the socio-work situation of women in Galicia. And that's why we opposed and rejected budgets that took away resources from them. The amendments that we have tabled are intended to frame this area of Greece, the agreement that has been reached since Parliament that it is the Galego Labour Relations Council that measures to reach agreement so that effective wage equality can be achieved in our country by 2020. We also point out the need to introduce clear criteria for equality in the provision of services — we do not take the bloody case of Nélida Pisco here again, which has often brought Mrs Prado here. And we also point out the need — this is simply a nuance, but it is important — instead of supporting sectors with a high rate of female presence, to promote wage improvement in these sectors and decent working conditions, because they are the most precarious. Finally, the amendments are presented, I am not going to break them, but I just want to highlight four ideas, which are: the first and fundamental, to act against the structural causes — so we have included there this nuance in the Equal Pay Act — and it is also fundamental to the role of the Galego Labour Relations Council; and we also include the need to repeal the Royal Decree of Law 3/2012, urgent measures for labour market reform, and all the rules that have also broken down in the past and precarious labour relations, because, of course, in the context of such a normative employment situation it is impossible to achieve not only wage equality, but rather to have dignified working conditions. But finally, we wish you luck in the transaction of the initiative with the rest of the groups and the People's Party, because for us you will have no problem approving it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u149	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u150	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, President. We are surprised by the words of the representative of the Socialist Party when I think we've been trying to reach consensus on equality, and on equal work for men and women. And to disqualify us by saying that the People's Party is a masquerading party, I think... we hope you remove your words; otherwise, we cannot reach a consensus. [[Murmurs.]] Aren't you going to remove them? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, it's a pity what really brings us here, which has to be the common good, totally demerits our work, their work and the work of all, which is equality with capitals in all areas, both in macho violence, in the field of work, education or in any area of society, that this is our work, our work here and our work in common, what we must bring to this House. Too bad. [[Applause]] I don't want to change the work of my intervention despite the words of the representative of the Socialist Party. Today is not just the day of poetry, it's also the World Down Syndrome Day. Fifty-one percent of the people affected are women, and even in the workplace they suffer worse than men. Of course, we're going to work all over society, not only for the whole society, but also for the women who are in this situation and who are suffering from this Down syndrome disease. And already going to the contents of your motion, I can't specify each of the eight points that brought about the different measures that you are presenting, because time is limited, but what if I want is, once again, to show you the interest of the People's Party in working together to reach the bottom of its proposal, proposing another form to the joint fund for the common good, as I said. From the People's Group, we still believe that equality policy is too important to make it a partisan fighting weapon, and we must manage it from the consensus. That is why, after examining the points of your motion, we see that some of them are already being made, others will be made in an imminent manner and others may be the subject of debate in the Equality Committee of this Parliament. [[Applause]] That is why we tabled this amendment, which we believe, we continue to believe, that it collects the essentials, that it unites us, and that it can serve as a basis for a common work. We will not cease in that endeavour. The Popular Group coincides in many areas with the different parties and the need to draw up a women's employment plan. The president and counsellor have already announced it. And we agree that it has to be discussed with social agents. That's right, when it's debated with social agents, it can't be a closed text, but it's open and it's full of proposals and contributions. We agreed to support the establishment of equality plans in companies since June, but in small and medium-sized enterprises, not as proposed in the whole past by the Galego Nationalist Block, which wanted to support large companies, which already have to implement this equality plan by law. The General Employment Secretariat last year granted more than 500,000 euros in support of the development and implementation of equality plans and conciliation. This year there will be new aid and the budget will be increased by 26% for the certifications of equality plans in the Greek companies, for teleworking and for labour flexibility. We also agreed that we should support female entrepreneurship. And the OMEGA project is the best example of this work, with 1,300,000 euros for this year in its budget, and there was a 60% increase in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, we could talk here about many truncated agreements, as it was in December the proposal of En Marea. The good ideas we always accept, come from those who come, but the reality is that we in the previous legislation approved in this House a law that pursued this maternal Mobbing in public concessionaires, and you didn't support it. We also launched a work placement program for victims of gender-based violence, which they did not support in the past. But we're not going to talk here about truncated agreements and we're going to look at the future and talk about agreements. And, of course, from the People's Party, we're not going to turn equality debates into partisan recriminations or maximum posture struggles. Of course, we continue to work together — that is what we want — with all the political forces to reach agreements and to reach the end that unites us, not with what separates us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u151	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u152	Good afternoon. I'm going to start by claiming that ideology exists, fortunately, and that we are in a parliament where we confront ideas and ideologies. And, of course, inequality between men and women and social inequalities is not a biblical curse; they are not inevitable; they are a consequence of policies carried out and a consequence of ideological positions. And, of course, although we can match in some things, the ideological position of the BNG and the People's Party on gender equality is also at a great distance, unfortunately. Well, we are now debating an initiative put forward by the very broad, very detailed Socialist Party, to which BNG does not submit amendments. Although there are aspects in which we don't agree to 100 percent, we understand it as a call for attention about everything it's about to do; what it's about to do in theory and then also in practice, because it's not enough to put things on paper, it's not enough to approve legislative measures, it's then necessary to put them into practice. And practice is the difficulty of many women so they can enjoy or exemplify the rights recognized in the paper. And since you came out here on two occasions — appointed by two previous Members — the case of Nélida Pisco, for I will refer to it again. Because it is a very clear case of labour harassment, a very clear case condemned in the courts, a very clear case of labour inspections where this situation of labour law is recognized, and a very clear case where the People's Party Board, the People's Party Government, has no single finger to defend the position of this worker who is harassed by a company that has an administrative contract with the Galician Union. With which, if you wish, the People's Party has instruments to be able to act, it has the instrument of having a contract. [[Applause]] And he also has the political instrument to tell a company that he can't have this kind of behavior. But far from being like this, we've come here with sighs that equality is not a partisan issue, that equality cannot be made political. But the People's Party what it does with equality is put it on paper, come here and claim it, but then do nothing to get women to exercise it. And the situation in the Galician labour market is characterized by major inequalities due to gender. We can say, without a doubt, that we are talking about a precarious women's labour market, a labour market where the feminization of poverty and labour poverty is a finding. Poverty in Galicia has a woman's face. We address it on other occasions, we address it in the situation of monomantal families, we address it in the analysis of the situation of the care of dependent people, in the care of children. It's a labour market characterized by inactivity, unemployment, eventuality, part-time employment, wage gap, submerged economy, infra-salaries. These are not words that happen, they are words that reflect the working reality of women in Galicia. And the crisis has only made the precarious work situation worse by now, before 2008 and the crisis. Women don't work on equal terms than men earn less and there's an unequal, unbalanced distribution in the care of work responsibilities. More than 90% of the population in Greece who work part-time to care for families are women. Of course, this is no coincidence. We have lower rates of activity and occupation, more unemployment and less wages. I was saying before the crisis didn't improve this situation at all. And one of the few indicators that didn't change during the crisis is precisely the gender gap in the labour market. The Greek men charge an average of more than 4,000 euros more than women. We can continue to analyze data and all would give women a very clear disadvantage over men; a precarious labour market that has as a result as soon as retirement age we also have really alarming retirement data. Only 1.4% of women earn the maximum retirement pension. This is a result of a truly tremendous labour market.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u153	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u154	And this, of course, only gets worse. There's worse income and more unemployment. And, of course, one thing I want to end with is that in Galicia there are fewer women occupied, and above all there are many fewer women occupied. It has increased the number of women over 55 who have been busy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u156	...and finished, president—doing those jobs. But the misfortune of emigration makes Galicia the percentage of young busy women dropped alarmingly. That's why we support this initiative, because we think we need to take action and not just take them on paper...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u157	Thank you, Mr. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u158	...but also in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Motion author group. Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u160	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I thank you, Mrs. Prado Cores, for your willingness. I know there are specific points that don't share 100 percent; but it's true that it's a statement of intent. It's, as you said — if I'm not mistaken — a call for attention. With which I thank you for your support. I also appreciate the presentation of amendments from the Tide Group. I think more than anything is linguistic issues in some cases, but I think we're going to be able to also deal with some issues. As for Mrs. García Míguez, look, this is about the common good, about the world's peace, about goodness, it's all right, Your Honor, but this is a parliament, you understand? And a parliament comes to make politics, to disagree, to talk about different ideologies. [[Murmurs.]] And even if you and I are able to trade, that doesn't mean that the policies on the equality of the People's Party have anything to do with those of the Socialist Party. [[Murmurs.]] What you mean, Your Honor, is that we are capable of yielding, that we are able to dialogue, that we are able to make politics with capital letters, that I understand that it is something that citizens and citizens, above all, will thank you. [[Applause]] Look, I'm going to keep saying here, out and where it's necessary for the People's Party to be allowed with machismo while there's a President of the House of Ourense who's called Baltar, and while there's a mayor of Girl who makes statements like she did the other day. [[Applause]] Of course I do, Your Honor. [[Applause]] And you, as a woman, have in your hand also to press inside your party to respect all women, also those of the People's Party. [[Applause]] Join us, gentlemen, join this struggle. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, you are lending the approval of all initiatives in the area of equality to that committee that has been formed, which we consider to be very important. But Parliament's plenary session, this House, is about to debate, it's about to make agreements, and that's why we are going to try to reach an understanding — and I repeat, being different, being different, and being different, Your Honor. That is precisely what we are dealing with in the agreements, how we are dealing with those issues that are different and how we add up to those in which we are equal. Well, this equality plan is urgent — and I repeat it again, because you did basically read the press release of 10 of the 3 of 2017, which is the same as that of 23 of the 7 of 2016, which is the same as that of 10 of the 4 of 2015. I mean, the Equality Plan has been promising a lot of time, and it turns out they had it as easy as taking this one -- I'm going to put it to the Government, the Counsellor, who is here. It's Mr. Touriño's equality plan, and it's fine, really, really, I promise. Take a look, try to copy something from here, which we don't care about. Even if they didn't put it in force, they try to make a cut-off of something we're going to support, they don't doubt it. [[Murmurs.]] I thank the House for delaying the vote...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u161	No, no, sorry, there's a mistake, because that's not going to be accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u162	Won't you be accepted?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u163	The vote will not be accepted. That's also the consensus of the groups, the approach to tomorrow, and there's no consensus on it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u164	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u165	No, no, quiet. It's over. This matter is clarified. So, finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u166	Here it is clear that the People's Party does not like to hear truths. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Let's vote. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u168	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. We begin by voting on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Ms Eva Solla, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the hospitals in the area of health in Pontevedra. There's a transaction to which the groups — if you don't have any drawback, I read it myself — say: "Make sure in the functional plan that the current Provincial Hospital will maintain its character as public equipment and that it will have health use." We voted with this compromise. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with hospital centers in the area of health of Pontevedra. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u169	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the actions to be taken by the German Government in relation to the automotive sector. I understand that point 1 and 3 of the amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and point 1 of the amendment by En Marea are accepted. Votes by points are also accepted. Then we vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So then we vote, firstly, point 3 separated; then the rest of the points. Let's vote point 3. Vote of point 3 of the transactioned text of the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Nationalist Block on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the automotive sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 53. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected. Vote of the transactioned text, with the exception of point 3 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Nationalist Block on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the automotive sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u170	We now vote on the motion by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea on the establishment of an agreement between the Government of Greece and the Ministry of Development for the maintenance of existing railway services in Galicia. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Marcos Cal Ogando and Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the establishment of an agreement between the Government of Galicia and the Ministry of Development for the maintenance of existing railway services in Galicia, as well as the extension and improvement of the railway network. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u171	And we now vote on the motion from the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the actions to be taken by the German Government in the field of equality in work between women and men. It has already stated that the amendment of En Marea accepted it, but we must know the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. So, what are the points you accept from In Marea? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u172	On 1, or 3, or 4, or 5, or 9, or 13, or 14, or 15, or 16, or 17, or 18 and 20. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not the People's Party replacement amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u173	Thank you. We therefore vote, as you have just explained in particular, which are the points that have just been accepted by the Socialist Group. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of equality in work between women and men. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u174	The motions have been put to the end. We move on to point 3, which corresponds to non-law proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the development of its consumer competences in relation to the control of financial products issued by banking institutions for customers and their marketing processes
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u175	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor of Mrs. Presas Bergatiños.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u176	Good afternoon, everyone. We understand, from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, that, despite the many and obvious differences we have in the groups represented here around the banking sector, there are two evidences in which we think we should agree. On the one hand, the obvious fact that in the 21st century, in order to develop personal and professional life, it is essential to have both a bank account and to develop bank operations, even if they are of different levels. On the other hand, it is this legislative Parliament's duty to ensure that consumers' rights are guaranteed. Therefore, starting from these two objective assumptions and which we understand as indisputable, if we add these two questions, we understand that the logical thing is that, at a time like what we live, where banking abuse is more than found, administrations must respond with all their possibilities, and therefore the Galician Union must fully implement its consumer competences in order to promote, for users, an elementary service such as banking in a controlled manner and in which their rights are guaranteed. In the few months that we've spent in this tenth legislation, we've had to talk here about big crates like those of the ground clauses, with a result, in addition, unsatisfactory to a part of this Parliament because it's the answer to a mere straw decree that makes the work of the banks easier and their way more easy than that of the people affected. Or like the favorites, a scam with a great impact in our country, in which some people almost finished those chapters, and we had to see how Congress again passed a Welsh law voted by all groups of this House; a law that was also kidnapped and initially promoted by the parliamentary group that I represent, getting unanimous support already in 2014. But, as we see, in full 2017, that law that sought justice is still undeveloped and that calote is still pending resolution for more than 10,000 Greeks and Greeks. We see situations like these two that I have just described how the regulators failed — you have to admit — and also the administrations failed in their answers. All of this is to add daily abuses of another intensity that anyone, as a user or user of a bank, usually suffer, such as abusive commissions or new product types, such as life insurance, sickness insurance and so on, many of them necessarily linked to loans or banking transactions, and many others inoculated through strong marketing. So we asked ourselves: of all of this that we have lived in recent years, what have we learned and what has been corrected? We understand that the numerous abuses and their corresponding judgments, unfortunately, did not question the banking system, did not undergo a correction in the commercial policy of banking institutions or greater control by the public authorities. In addition, in this context we understand that different changes are being made and that already experts indicate how banking is changing; banks are moving from service providers to product carriers, and the system does not apply sufficient standards and resources to avoid new massive deceptions. Besides, we are faced with a context that increasingly acquires greater complexity. Consumers are faced with this complexity in a situation of vulnerability, and in our country they have other factors that make it bigger. On one side, the characteristics of the population. A very old population which, in some cases, is distributed in the territory in a very dispersed way and, in many cases, in rural areas; a rural with fewer services and fewer resources to come to. And also another aggravating is the economic situation, which increases the vulnerability of many people, who are forced to relax their degree of exigencies in the proposals that banks make because they need to enter a certain amount of money or have any such service. In fact, this situation is reaching such a point — and not only in the Spanish State — that international experts also warn of how a risk of financial exclusion is being stabilised, so people with little economic capacity are being abused in relation to commissions and other types of issues on the part of banks so that they will quit as a customer because they are not interested in another profile. All of this is given, in addition, in a low-interest framework that makes it easier for these financial institutions to place products on people without financial knowledge, who take greater risks because they have greater needs — as I say — than they are. It's the same with credit. A context with such profound restrictions that exist causes people to be willing to take on worse conditions. Also indirectly, but associated with this type of service, new types of scams are happening. For example, recently, a state consumer organization, Facua, reported the growing number of phone scams to the thread, precisely, of the claim of ground clauses; a scam in which people were called to indicate that he was a person affected by this issue and then they had to call themselves to additional charging phones. As I say, with different intensity but new risks, new uncertainties and new factors that the Administration does not respond to. There are things that have changed a long time after the crisis; one of them, for example, the working conditions of the workers and workers of the bank, who have changed enormously and are under great pressure to place products. So there's a contradiction, there's a contrast between who has to place the product and who has to receive it. And more importantly, serious issues are being raised, such as that workers and workers now have to assume criminal responsibility for these products, when there is a lack of European regulatory mechanisms that the Spanish State has not yet fully transposed into the country. All of this in a context of lack of clarity and lack of data from what you have already warned, for example, the CNMV, which placed up to 180 people going through users to visit different banking institutions in different cities and to test how this transaction relationship was being. As I say, this whole context generates a lot of insecurity, logical insecurity in users, and since the public administration we understand from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group that we have to stand up on the road, question those tools that have not worked so far, see how we can make them better and also increase the resources in those we have already been given, because we do not already enter into more ambitious debates than we have already realized in this House. Over the years — it is also true, and it must be acknowledged — thanks to numerous collective demands, individual, affected collectives, and all this social unrest, it has been leaping over normative changes, but, as I said earlier, they have not always had a fast enough transposition into our state. To show a button: the European regulations drawn up by ESMA, such as MiFID II and the regulations that develop it, are in many cases pending this transposition, which, given what we have experienced in at least the last three months, is extremely serious. It is therefore obvious to all light that we present new ideas and proposals to see what we can do. In this sense, our proposals go. It seems to us that we are at a time when we have to equip ourselves, on the basis of which it already collects our own Autonomy Statute which regulates us and the existing legislation, to exercise our consumption powers to the fullest extent through the Galician Consumer Institute and to increase its resources so that capacity is greater in the face of an increasingly complex changing scenario, and to debate other issues such as participating in these regulatory bodies, which have not always worked in the last period and from which other communities are part. As then I will extend with more profusion into the replica, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u177	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. I now give the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo's Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u178	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Group strongly defends this, we have already expressed it in several initiatives that we have also put forward, consumers against financial products that place financial institutions for their marketing. We have as recent and as shocking cases as were the preferences, ground clauses, abusive clauses in banking contracts. The placement of all these products had a common denominator, which was opacity, because the people in front of the banking institutions did not have sufficient and clear information to be able to transfer them to their customers, they did not have sufficient financial knowledge, they could not make the assessment of suitability and convenience and were obliged to meet objectives; therefore, what they wanted was to put these products to their customers. On the other hand, there were customers, who trusted their financial institutions and the people ahead: they didn't have adequate or sufficient financial training to understand the products offered to them and they bought these products in a blind way, since no one explained the risk to them. They assumed your bank entity was offering them the best product for the customer, not the best product for the bank. They needed the product, as in the case of mortgages, and they understood that the conditions were inevitable and not questionable. The reality was a large number of people affected by abusive clauses and important economic accounts, and a social struggle was born that called for a solution to a problem of great social and economic silence. The economic crisis has severely reduced the economic capacity of families, making them much more vulnerable. Therefore, public bodies were asked to intervene to establish a specific plan of support for the affected persons, including information, counselling and mediation mechanisms so that they could claim before the banking institutions; to ensure that this information had reached the entire population and to negotiate with the banking entities an axile process of returning amounts wrongly charged. This social movement led many of the people affected to turn to the courts, and several favourable judgments, such as the 2013 judgement of the Supreme Court, which collected that the ground clauses were abusive and therefore null, although it did not collect their retroactivity. It had to be a judgment of the European Union's Court of Justice in 2016, which it had established that the clauses were null and void with all its consequences, therefore with its full retroactivity. And another later judgment, in 705/2015, of the Supreme Court, which declares as abusive a series of clauses of bank contracts signed with consumers. So we fully agree that the Galego Institute of Consumers should not only act when there are situations of defence, but we believe that it should go further; that it should not put patches only when a breach appears, but rather that it should move forward to future situations and make available to people counselling and mediation mechanisms, as well as control mechanisms on financial products and their marketing processes. I mean, we ask the Galego Institute of Consumption to have proactivity, to be proactive. We are fully in favour of this GNP, but we are asking for a point-by-point vote, since in the first, indeed, we fully agree on its content, but in the second, we believe that the National Securities Market Commission is a body responsible for monitoring and inspecting securities markets and the activity of quotas, and therefore we believe that it must be an independent body and that governments should not participate in it. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u179	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u180	Good afternoon. Today is Poetry Day, Down Syndrome Day, but it's also the 14th anniversary of the beginning of the Iraq War, and the People's Party continues without asking for forgiveness fourteen years later. I hope they don't laugh like they've been doing all afternoon, laughing at important issues. [[Applause]] I hope this, at least, doesn't laugh. Esperanza Aguirre and Mr Aznar have already laughed enough and they continue to be members and continue without taking responsibility for this criminal act. Mr. Moreira, criminal! The war based on the lies of Mr. Aznar, Mr. Bush, etc., cost the lives of hundreds of thousands of innocents. Don't laugh, you're responsible. We're waiting for you to apologize, gentlemen of the People's Party. One day the perpetrators will be tried by war criminals, criminals, who they are. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u181	Let's get to the point, Mr. Sánchez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u182	This is really important issues, not what you're doing all afternoon, making it easy, and laughing at what other fellows and mates say. With that, yes, the presidency of the Galician Parliament, which does not act when you are making noise and failing to respect and insulting the comrades who intervene here. Therefore, a little respect and apologize for your actions, gentlemen of the People's Party. You also have other responsibilities, in addition to the Iraq War. You're also a part of the fraud that has taken place in this country at the bank level. It seems that the People's Party has ruled for a few years in the Spanish State. Looks like he ruled most of the years in Galicia, and here something happened, right, People's Party gentlemen? Here, for years, not only were bankers or abusive banking practices, but there were institutions that had powers in legislation to monitor these abuses and did not do so, both in the state and in Galicia. And there are cases, right? Today there are up to 15 clauses, usual for the last 25 years, applied to the mortgages of citizens, which are in question and which are in dispute. Many of them already have firm judgments, such as ground clauses, interest of delay, expenses of constitution, etc. It cost the citizens money, it was millionaire scams, but it also cost, for example, that a lot of people had to leave their homes, that they also have some responsibility for you, the People's Party lords, and the laws and regulations they supported, and let them do it, and let them do it! Here in Galicia we still have a commission to investigate the savings boxes tomorrow, where we will see that there were some gentlemen who considered their property New Box and Galicia and did what they shouldn't do: they speculated, made decisions against the country, used the savings of the Greeks for their business... but there were also those occupying the Greek governments who did not use their powers to monitor how the savings of the Greeks were used. And we also have cases of preference, subordinates, complex products, marketed to retailers who had no information. Badly marketed, with lack of information, manipulation etc. This happened, and we could say: here something happened, there was a crisis, it cost suffering, it cost evictions, it cost unemployed people, it cost many people to recover; many lives were truncated because of those who stole and those who allowed them to steal; something very serious happened in this country. We could say, this has happened but it won't happen again; action will be taken to prevent this from happening, right? Well, what we're seeing is that everything's still the same. Banking institutions continue to market complex products to retail customers who do not have the conditions for them to be marketed. That's happening. National Securities Market Commission, measures relating to the marketing of Forex contracts and financial contracts by difference. In both our country and other European countries, there is a growing trade between retail customers, by certain financial intermediaries, of increasingly complex and risky instruments with different financial contracts. Or this report on the mysterious client, where the National Securities Market Commission makes an inspection and detects the same mistakes that have happened here for years: poor information, manipulation and marketing of products to people who are not prepared for it and who are not explained to you the risks that are currently investing their money, when they are told that it is a safe investment and when 82%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u183	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u184	...two cases where you want to recover the money you lose. It's all the same! It's more necessary than ever that you've got surveillance and control instruments all these kinds of operations so it won't happen again in a few years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u186	...what happened very recently. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr Trenor López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative has been rejected by committee. I thought our refusal was well argued, but it is not so, and for me, of course, it is terribly frustrating, first as a Member, but also as a financial advisor who tries to move what he learned in those years about the sector itself and how it affects those we work in the sector. We think your proposal is good for us to talk about exactly the guarantees of the financial client, but it adds nothing that can serve to improve effective control of financial products and their marketing. And secondly, because we think that the proposals and changes promoted by the People's Party have increased control over the financial products being marketed, improved the defence of the financial client and increased the guarantees, the rights to information and the marketing procedures. We all know the story. The fall of the famous Investment Bank due to the subprime crisis and the next financial and economic crisis. And in our country, the marketing of abusive clauses and financial products has made it jump the alarms about the whole financial system and its solvency, and also about the marketing procedures for financial products. But they also jumped the alarms about the malfunction of the regulators -- some are being investigated judicially at this point because of their responsibility -- and they also jumped the alarms about a left-wing government that was at the Champions League. A left-wing government who invented the express defiance and was insensitive to more than half a million defiances. A left-wing government that forced the capitalization of entities with problems with the issue of preference shares. And a left-wing government that allowed the massive marketing of mortgages with abusive clauses. And did he do anything left with all this? Absolutely nothing, nothing at all! And this, ladies and gentlemen, is also ideology, of course it's ideology! It's true what you say, that here comes ideology. Have you, gentlemen, done anything to keep thousands of mortgages from being sold with abusive clauses? 60,000 mortgages were marketed each year in the two-party government; 24,000,000 mortgages with abusive clauses. Did you do something? Nothing at all. Did you do something when thousands of families were thrown out of their homes by these clauses? Absolutely nothing. And in relation to the responsibility of each one, Mr. Sánchez and the Bloc and the Socialist Party, did you set something up between 2005 and 2008, when six multiplied the expansion of the offices of our community savings boxes and more than 316 offices were opened? Did they do something when the credit grew to 33,000 million and the deposits to just 18 billion, lowering 29 points to deposit coverage on the credits? Did they do something when the real estate risk in the years that you've been governing reached the 17 billion, multiplying by five the real estate risk you had before? What did you do those years? What did the Galician Consumer Institute do during those years? Nothing! Nothing at all, gentlemen! But, in the face of their inactions, we bet on improving the protection of the bank client by acting in every one of the areas that influence this. The prudential and solvency regulations have improved; the general right to consumer protection. Banking rules for customer protection have been improved and the institutional framework for conflict resolution has also been improved. Basel I and II were implemented to increase the capital and solvency of entities. MiFID I has been implemented and is now with MiFID II to improve information on the risks of financial products and counselling. Bank restructuring was carried out, which strengthened recruitment and settlement mechanisms. A code of good practice has been approved to curb the defiances, gentlemen. The first royal decree this year was to establish the free extrajudicial procedure to speed up the return of ground clauses. Ladies and gentlemen, the functions of the National Committee on the Market in Values and the Galego de Consumo Institute are not coincidental. The Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition does not carry out control functions, but rather consumer protection; and it will continue to carry out its work of information and advice to the Greek consumers, as it has always done, also in those most complicated cases and with greater impact as were on its day the preferences and now the ground clauses. You're talking about new ideas, ladies and gentlemen. For we propose that, in order to increase protection, an independent consumer and financial investor protection authority should be created which unites and strengthens the claims and protection services of the three financial supervisors that exist: the Bank's, the securities and the insurance authority. That contracts like...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u190	...of financial services to retailers, in order to avoid fraud to consumers hidden in the small letter, and also to oversee audit companies. We also want to strengthen consumer and user rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u191	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u192	...strengthening the mortgage law. And we also want to advance and improve bank transparency by promoting measures that allow customers to obtain more and better information, homogeneous and comparable information...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u194	...to facilitate decision-making by financial customers. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u195	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. You have the floor, by the parliamentary group that is the author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Bergantinos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u196	We accept the proposal for a point of view and thank the Socialist Party and En Marea for their support. If our proposal doesn't add anything, they emenade. We are in the Greek Parliament, to me what is bad in the Spanish state, if it comes out as well as the decree for the return of the ground clauses, because we are avid! That's right, I'm going to be fascinated by the house tonight because left-wing governments didn't know how to stop the favorites. Then Aznar and Fraga — in 2003 there had already been marketing of preference — were supposed to be super-left governments. Finally, let the Government of the People's Party come to teach lessons about the defeats!... I don't know if I have to remind the People's Party that it was the Galician Nationalist Block, at the Congress of the Spanish State, that I first proposed as a political force the donation paid, while you were shaven up. Yes, yes, the minutes of the sessions are there! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Finally, we see the results of economic policy as regards the banking security of the People's Party's governments. They're almost as effective as those in wind management. Today we know a new conviction that the Galician Union will have to pay 800,000 euros for canceling the Bipartite wind competition, that contest with horns, tails and teeth. Anyway! So, unfortunately, we will continue to talk about all this legislation both of its wind failure and of its failure to monitor the Bank, with obvious responsibility, because this political force has not yet ruled the Spanish State. Every day we offer it, too, and maybe we get better solutions. Finally, you can blindfold your eyes or you can do as with the Committee on Boxes and say that you must cool down, that you must cool down all these kinds of measures. There's no greater blindness than you don't want to see, but it's obvious -- and it's objective organisms, organisms belonging to universities and so on -- that there's a greater complexity and that the answer isn't enough. So we will insist that we move forward. I would like to give an example, starting from the fact that consumer competences are exclusive to the Autonomous Community and that it has the capacity not to directly control the Bank, but rather to follow up and advise on what it is already doing, which we value positively, but insufficiently. I'm going to set an example of another area of work. As you imagine you know, the Galego Consumer Institute has the Galician Consumer Laboratory, which is a center where analysis and testing of industrial products are carried out, because for example a toy to assess whether it is safe enough or not; it can go as many companies as want to sell one as there may be other types of controls. So why not something similar to financial products, and random control, a random control of certain products, how are other organisms doing in the world ahead? We understand that what is lacking in political will and not even providing the little instruments we have in this community. Sounds like a lie...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u198	...that I have to say, but it is that even the need to look after the consumer is something that collects its sacred Spanish Constitution, which is so much cited for other matters. And I'd have more things to say but it doesn't give me time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u199	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Let's move on to the next point. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Moisés Blanco Paradelo and 13 other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government to ensure compliance with the European objectives of covering new-generation telecommunications networks and to increase the efficiency of public funds, as well as to allow access to a speed of at least 30 megabits per second, to at least 90 per cent of inhabitants of populations of less than five thousand inhabitants in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u200	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Blanco Paradelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u201	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I don't think it will surprise anyone: Galicia is the most rural community in Spain; a community with more than 30,000 population nuclei, which means 40% of the total state nuclei, of which more than 90% have fewer than 100 inhabitants. Moreover, the population living in the large nuclei, considered to be more than 20,000 inhabitants, is only 31%, being Spain's lowest. In this way, Galicia gathers 5.8% of the population of the state, and, given the high number of nuclei, the level of population dispersal, which, together with the complex orography, makes it difficult to deploy Internet networks in our community. On the other hand, it also highlights the level of aging, because the age of 55 represents about 40% of the population, with an average age of 46 years; data that, although not directly affecting the deployment, do so at the level of use of the network: the higher age, the lower use of broadband services. Aware of this situation, the Galician Union has been working since 2010 to promote the extension of Internet networks through the 2010-2013 Broadband Plan, which has been completed, and thanks to today's practice, all of the people living in Galicia have access to at least 2 mega broadband services, through fixed, wireless and satellite networks. But the government of President Feijóo, far from conforming, has continued to work on a second long-band plan, already oriented to ultra-fast networks. Therefore, Galicia is at a time of digital transition, from looking forward to getting the quality of access to telecommunications networks to be positive enough to ensure its growth and improving its competitiveness. And for that there is a clear roadmap. Thus, in July 2016, the first of the actions of the Long Band Plan 2020 was launched, with an budget of EUR 3.4 million, and a line of support for the network extension of more than 100 megas in 81 industrial polygons was approved for the main business centres in Galicia to have ultra-fast broadband. Last Thursday, in Commission 6th, we unanimously adopted a proposal from the People's Group, with a compromise from the Socialist Group, in which we urged the Joint Assembly to set up action to provide ultra-fast broadband services for those self-employed and isolated enterprises in rural areas. And today, with this initiative, we want to ensure the deployment of new generation telecommunications networks in most of Galicia's smaller population nuclei. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the population dispersal, coupled with a complex orography, makes the extension of telecommunications networks in Galicia more costly and less profitable for private operators than it might suppose in other autonomous communities. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the data remains: according to experts, Galicia needs more fiber than some whole countries, far outnumbering Britain and some Nordic countries, which has to make us think about, because we find ourselves at a crucial time, every time the European Commission, through its digital agenda, has set ambitious targets for the coverage of new generation networks by 2020. The objectives, assumed by the Government of Spain and the Government of Galicia, are mainly to provide coverage for the entire population of 30 megas and to encourage the recruitment of services of 100 megas in the homes, for what is undoubtedly required of the performance of public administrations and very especially for these networks to reach smaller populations, where operators may not carry out their deployments because they are not profitable. Thus, in order to promote the extension of ultra-fast networks in Galicia, the State has about EUR 43 million through the multiannual ERDF funds for the period 2014-2020. And for its part, the Galician Union has over 18 million euros through the EAFRD funds for the same objective. In view of the common objectives and the availability of these funds, from the People's Parliamentary Group we believe that the execution of joint actions between the State and the Union would enable greater efficiency, increasing the multiplier effect of public aid and thus increasing the scope of ultra-fast network coverage, which could only be achieved through public intervention. For this reason, we consider it vitally important for the Government of Spain and the Council of Galicia to go hand in hand, since together they would be able to overcome broadly the objective set in the 2020 Longband Plan of reaching all the nuclei of more than five hundred inhabitants with the networks of 100 megas, and they can also do so to those nuclei of more than 200 inhabitants. And that, Your Honor, is our goal: to reach the largest number of nuclei. On the other hand, where the coverage of networks of 30 megas is concerned, it must be borne in mind that, as a result of the public auction for granting the granting of private use of radio-electric public domain in the 800 megaherce band, operators who became adjudicators of these frequencies — namely Movistar, Vodafone and Orange — have obligations of coverage derived from the said adjudication. Thus, according to Royal Decree 458/2011 of 1 April, these operators shall jointly provide, before 1 January 2020, an aggregate coverage allowing access to a speed of 30 megas per second or more than 90 per cent of the citizens of the population entities of less than five thousand inhabitants. However, the mere application at the state level of this forecast, i.e. obliging operators solely to meet that goal in the state as a whole without fixing a minimum by autonomous communities, could prejudice Galicia by treating our most dispersed community and one of the most complex orographically. Ladies and gentlemen, we must bear in mind that in Galicia more than 1.5 million people live in this type of population, representing 55% of the total population and that only 46 out of 30,000 nuclei have more than 5,000 inhabitants. It is therefore foreseeable that, in the absence of territorialized obligations, operators would choose to carry out the deployments that are necessary to meet the minimum at the state level provided for in the actual decree mentioned above in those autonomous communities where deployments require less investment effort, as well as to offer greater profitability, i.e. in the more orograftly favourable areas and where there is a higher concentration of population. So from our group we understand that, in order to avoid prejudice to Galicia and in order to achieve a better territorial balance in the state, it is necessary that the coverage obligations arising from the granting of these frequencies should be territorialized, forcing operators to comply with that minimum coverage in the context of our autonomous community. And I'm done. Therefore, in view of the above, we present the following non-legislative proposal: "The Galician Parliament urges the Government of Spain to work together with the Galician Union to develop a joint action on the deployment of new-generation high-speed access networks — 100 megas — using the European funds available to both administrations, to ensure compliance with the European targets for coverage of the new generation network, while increasing the efficiency of public funds. Even so, the Galician Parliament urges the Government of Spain to force operators who become frequency block adjudicators on the 800 megaherce band to jointly complete, before 1 January 2020, a coverage allowing access to a speed of 30 megabits per second to at least 90% of the inhabitants of the populations of less than five thousand inhabitants in Galicia." I would like to end by appealing unanimously to other initiatives of this silence that we have had in Commission 6 and of course, if it is the legislation of the countryside, we hope that everyone will understand the importance of this initiative and be able to support it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u202	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u203	Good afternoon again. Mr. Blanco, I'm going to give you a joy, because since BNG we're going to have this proposal not by law a more constructive spirit than your parliamentary group with the previous one. Returning to the subject of consensus that we have around these issues in Commission 6th and not to share with you some of the considerations you have made with regard to Plan 2020, which we believe is more in theory than in practice, we understand that this non-law proposition indicates a difficulty, that we understand it is objective, that we also share, that it is to extend access to the network of new generation or known as ultra-fast networks to most of the population of Galicia, and that neither orography nor dispersion is a handicap. This is a concern we share, although, as I say, the diagnosis of the present is not the same. Although we formulate this in a more forceful way, we are pleased that the People's Party makes in its non-legislative proposal that such coverage obligations arising from the granting of frequencies should be territorialized — this is something we have put on the table on other occasions — and that operators are obliged to do so as to comply with a minimum obligation of that adjudication process. We also see that the Government of the State is required to rationalize this fund organization, so that it is in a different way. This is important, because, if there are indeed those difficulties that were named, it is also true that there are multinational companies impacting on our territory and also getting a benefit from those parts of the territory that are not so difficult and that they have important customer bags and that, therefore, we understand that there can be a compensation between the profitability of more affordable areas technologically based on orography and others that are less, and that we should be jointly concerned about this issue, which we want to insist on, that we cannot create a Galaxy of two, three or four speeds and that we must therefore put all the tools to work in one direction — economic sources and also these contractual restrictions. What they say in the petitions is logical, although we understand that an important part at the end and at the end is the European Union's mandate, such as those minimum speeds of access to the network. And acting together with other administrations is common sense. So we're not going to oppose this proposal. If I wanted to make some more comments, especially by focusing on what you have to do with the second point. On the one hand, it makes sense that what is collected strictly on this initiative is the target of 90% for the nuclei of less than five thousand inhabitants, which the Union may force that coverage already collected in the regulatory framework, but we would like to mention that that 10% that remains must also be in our concerns, in the concern of the political groups that we are represented here, and of course also in the Government. We understand what is the technical formulation that is presented for this LNP and that logically it would be unreal to encrypt a 100%, that no one can assure, as a real goal in its entirety, but we understand that within that 10%, then the Galician Union will have to keep working so that, out of that attention, there is not so many neighbors and neighbours left. As I say, to put 100% on paper, we understand that it's not realistic, but we understand that, when there are these exceptional circumstances that cannot be accommodated in this 90%, because there must be a strong commitment on the part of the Greek Government so that that that percentage is reduced as little as possible and remains only in exceptions. On the other hand, to also comment that mobile operators approach speeds such as those described here for 90% do not have a direct relationship with removing the digital slot, because in no case will they enjoy unlimited download connections, because mobile networks do not allow it so far. And there's also the tariff issue, which is another question that we will have to address, to promote that they end up having a volume similar to other alternatives, such as fiber, and that there is no crack in that way of which access technology is. And, as a background, also by talking about the digital divide, from my parliamentary group, we wanted to insist that it is equally important for what is collected in this initiative: to continue to talk about the formation and the necessary digital literacy, because we have about 30% of the population of Greece that is over the age of 60 and that in many cases has not had a digital literacy since the educational environment or its personal or professional environment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u205	...and that this remains a handicap that we drag as a society, and that will also have to be an object of attention, in addition to what is the access itself. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u206	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u207	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. To finish the afternoon, as we are also on this Poetry Day, filmist Roberto Benigni said, "Poese is a form of ideology." I think this sentence is quite appropriate on this day. [[Applause]] But, passing on to prose, Mr. Blanco, it is true that, in all the circumstances it has reported, Galicia follows the queue of broadband coverage connections, according to the data of the Ministry of Industry itself submitted at the request of the European Commission, and that it continues to increase precisely this gap with the Spanish average, since at least up to the beginning of 2016 66% of the Greeks had access to the broadband at more than 10 megas, which is the lowest figure of all autonomous communities, when the average in Spain is 60.12%. Of course, I believe that we all have to agree on the need to promote new generation telecommunications networks within the framework of the objectives of the European Commission's 2020 digital agenda, although the European Commission is already talking about the digital road with 2025 targets. As the initiative itself is also acknowledged, we undoubtedly require the actions of public administrations to ensure that the technological deployment by operators reaches smaller populations. Because we remember that, according to the data of the Galego Institute of Statistics, in Lugo 82% of the municipalities — that is, 55 of the 67 — and in Ourense 88% of the municipalities — i.e. 81 of the 92 — have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. That is, the affected population of both provinces in these municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants would exceed the two hundred and forty thousand inhabitants, an equivalent to a great city. If, moreover, we are, as you always say, in rural legislation and we need to settle population, more than the need to strengthen the technological connections of our country! But let us also bear in mind that Spain is the second most expensive broadband in Europe, after Croatia, according to the recent DESI report of the European Commission itself. And if Spain gets a good position in terms of electronic administration and digital integration of companies, it loses, precisely by talking about this initiative, positions on connectivity. Let us take into account the horizon which the European Commission is planning for the year 2025 that all schools, major transport centres, technology companies and public Internet providers access at the speed of at least 1 giga per second. This technological development must be faced, as it has been saying, absolutely in a necessary way, not only from a purely business perspective, because — look — let's note that recently several telecons have announced agreements to share networks; it can be positive, but look at the oligopolitic concentration in this matter as well. So we have to try this technological implantation to try to avoid overcoming social and territorial gaps, because balanced technological development will also be more competitive. What happens is that, in the face of this great challenge, we are not really familiar with, firstly, what is the radiography and the exact diagnosis of the current situation from which this initiative is based, Mr Blanco. We also don't know what your commitment is to the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020 or what will be the distribution of funds to be allocated for each of the administrations that need to be complemented. Nor do we know what criteria will be used to target priorities for less-populated municipalities, where operators, of course, have less commercial interest in reaching them. Or we don't know how we're going to count on our R & D fabric, or our ICT tissue, to support this necessary telecommunication boost. If this is going to be the AVE — to be called in some way — of telecommunications, it is necessary for the German Government to transfer this initiative to concrete commitments with the State for the necessary knowledge and evaluation of this House. We therefore demand maximum parliamentary transparency in this matter of the highest priority, because this morning Amtega's management presented with an operator in the Coruña the deployment of advanced networks in industrial polygons. It seems great to us, but it would seem better if these diagnoses and planning were presented in this House. In this respect, it is true that in the last committee there has been an agreement accepting and trading amendments from this parliamentary group, but precisely today in the CEO it is made a call for aid to companies in isolated nuclei and these amendments are not included precisely to include the autonomous ones. Indeed, in the face of this lack of information and this type of call, it is absolutely unreliable that way of presenting initiatives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u208	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u209	So, although the question is absolutely transcendent to Galicia, it is difficult to support it in these terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Merlo Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u211	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. In the explanatory statement of this proposal it is recognised that for networks to reach smaller populations, where operators do not perform their motu deployment precisely because they consider themselves not profitable, if the administration is involved. This is quite true, and of course, the commitment you have to have an administration in this issue is precisely to guarantee these kinds of issues, which are vital to many things, such as allowing for rooting and entrepreneurship in places where these conditions and this digital divide do not facilitate the implementation of certain companies and certain businesses that would require that competitive margin. When we're talking about these operators, we need to remember that we're talking about companies that, like Orange, for example, had 2,935 million euros of profits in 2016; or Vodafone, another of the multinationals, who had about 4,600 million euros in that same year. I take it out of the collation because it is evident again that the liberalisation of the telecommunications market is very bad with guaranteeing services when these services do not bring benefits, and that, unfortunately, is the reality of geographical dispersion that we have in Galicia. It will never be easy to imagine that an operator or a company that is looking precisely to root out its network of services to collect a number of benefits because it does so in places where these margins are minimal or can even be negative. That's the reality of a lot of this country's surface. Ladies and gentlemen, what you are considering here is the responsibility of the Government, a government that is fully constituted by its party; that is to say, to safeguard the interests of Galicia, and on that line it is its obligation to carry out on its own initiative what is required of this NRP in relation to European grants, which respond to ambitious targets for the coverage of new generation networks, also called ultra-fast networks, by the horizon 2020. In that we agree, but we understand that this is already a question that must be given, yes or yes, whether we present initiatives in this House or not. What is worrying to me is that this European goal has ended up becoming by our administration in — and I quote textually — "inducing the recruitment of services of 100 megas in the homes". "Impulse the hiring of services of 100 megas in the homes." I would be much more calmer if, although the Administration was involved in the development of these networks, the task of boosting recruitment in homes to develop commercial agents rather than the Administration. With regard to the second point we are looking at here, that of the 800 megaherce band, is a question that has been available since 2015; from the second quarter, in particular, it was already enabled, once the television operators that occupied that band moved. They didn't start these adjudicate companies in this band to develop and implement the 4G networks precisely because they waited for this 800 megaherce band to be free, for a simple technical and economical matter. This band of 800 megaherces allows that, with a single antenna, you can cover much more space, and still above it takes advantage of the networks commonly used up to the time that coverage in the interiors is much better, with which you can already see that in urban and heavily populated cores this kind of technology is being implemented very quickly, but not in rural and other places, where today there is still no guarantee of stable coverage on networks like 3G. And, of course, as much as we put it for our interest band and the Administration, the Government, the impulse, the fiber won't get to those places. Operators, on the other hand, are already considering the alternative to this fiber that is proposed in the European plan for 2020, the replacement of this service by 4G networks or 800 megaherces. It would be feasible, but today that technology is not mature and the bandwidth and stability is not the same. I'm convinced that in four years that technology will be mature enough to ensure the same thing these technologies guarantee today on fixed networks at 30 megas, but still technical evolution will make us again in four years we're at a disadvantage or a digital divide for those who have this type of coverage or not. We understand that the proposal of the fellow Member is correct and the intention is good, but we are again in a frame where we will never be able to guarantee, through that same digital divide, the differences that the large populations will have connected and that they already have access to the fiber and that they already have access to the wide bands, even if it is not fully implemented or is not of habitual consumption between the population, with those that today do not even have fixed connections or in which the mobile network is very weak. The needs, of course, are clear, but the concessions to adjudicate telephony companies are also clear, and it corresponds to them, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u212	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u213	...accumulate the improvements necessary for the development of these technologies. We understand, then, that the strategy that will develop over the next few years with regard to what is referred to in this plan is going to proceed in any way, regardless of whether this proposal goes ahead or not. It is also pending, as other colleagues commented, the subject of tariffs, the tariff regime that will apply to this type of connection, etc., etc. So we're not going to oppose this proposal, but we understand that neither will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Merlo. You have the floor on behalf of the non-law group, Mr. Moisés Blanco. Come in from the stairwell. Give a voice to Mr. Blanco's seat.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank you for the tone of all those who intervened on this initiative. And, with all due affection, I believe that only this initiative has truly understood the Voice Lady of the BNG. Because really today what we wanted from the People's Parliamentary Group was, on the one hand, to demand from the Government of the State the joint management — and I have already given the amount — of 43 million people who have the State and 18 who have helped the Council of Galicia to decide on the deployments, in this case, of telecommunications infrastructures in our community; and, therefore, we want to manage it together with them, and therefore we ask that the House support this very important request. And secondly, we want Galicia not to be harmed if it applies the territoriality criterion. So these are the two questions, and nothing else. I could now put myself here in a war of figures, tell you, and I'm not going in, because, really, I want you to think about it until tomorrow's vote, because it's very important that this initiative be unanimously supported. But, Mr Villoslada, you think you have not been well informed, because Mr Pérez Seco's request in the Commission's proposal 6th was the introduction of the word "autonomous" — if there was any doubt — and that was so. And you made reference to the fact that they were actually going out at the CEO today. And one of the first actions that we're talking about in that committee, and I agree with other spokesmen, is that we have to keep moving forward in education and digital literacy. And for that there are also — as you know — Cemit networks. So I won't extend anymore. If I really ask you to reflect on this case and to really think about the importance of being able to manage together with the State this large amount of European funds, which must be implemented by 2020, and, above all, that territoriality criteria can also be applied, so that Galicia will not be harmed by other autonomys in Spain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-03-21-DSPG021.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Blanco. After this non-legislative proposal, we suspended the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thanks a lot to everyone and good night.
