ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u1	Good morning. Let's start the whole thing. First of all, justify the inattentiveness of this plenary session of Mr Marcos Cal Ogong. Let's start with the first point on the agenda, legislative texts. Debate taken into consideration of the Proposal for a Law, to present to the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the establishment of a daily workday record in companies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u2	To present this bill you have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u3	Good morning. This bill from which we are going to debate your consideration must begin by saying that you were transferred by the IGC, by the Glaga Inter-union Confederation. And today I would like to thank you for alerting us about this situation and the need to make a change in labour law as to whether there is a daily day-to-day fee, that is to say, to be recorded at what time workers and workers start their work day-to-day work and when they finish it. It seems to be such a basic thing that the truth is that it wouldn't have to be necessary to demand a change in this direction. It is therefore a proposal for a law transferred by the IGC to the political groups represented here in this Parliament and that the BNG assumes itself. And he has, as I said, the objective of amending the Staff Regulations and the Law on Offences and Penalties in Social Order. A legislative change to a very specific subject, a really reduced legislative change, which may seem small, but of enormous importance to workers and workers to defend their interests. The data from the labor market in Galicia are demolition, in many respects. We could summarize that accepting any work for any salary, for any condition of work, without knowing what the day is going to be, for it is still one of the constants, as deregulation remains that harmful consequence of labour reforms. And, within the most important problems, the excess of a day is one of them. Days worked and not collected, days known when they start but not when they're finished, and overtime is constantly carried out without commuting. This legislative amendment that we propose — I insist — is intended to solve this situation; a situation that is given because the Workers' Statute does not clearly establish the obligation for the work centres to make a daily workday record. And it doesn't set it up because this Staff of Workers has been amended with the various labour reforms. And, therefore, that lack of conviction and clarity on this issue, as set out in Articles 35 and 34, led to the interpretation made by many companies outside that there was no need for the daily newspaper record. In the face of this interpretation, there began to be a labour conflict, so many workers and workers saw themselves with difficulties when they were computed the hours of the day or computed the overtime. This made it possible, in the face of the claims made by these workers and workers, if they had been making favorable judgments that if there were to be such a newspaper record. And, among them, various judgments of the National Court, on the basis of which the doctrine by which Article 34 was interpreted in relation to the 35 of the Staff Regulations, which assumed the need to carry a daily diary book in all companies, was introduced. This doctrine was collected by the Labour Inspectorate, who drew up an instruction in the sense of the obligation of that record and of the day-to-day calculation, since its absence constituted a prejudgment for workers and workers. But this doctrine, this way of interpreting these articles 34 and 35 of the Staff Regulations — which, I insist, does not clearly determine the matter — has been amended by a judgement of the Supreme Court of 23 March 2017, a judgment on both Bankia and Abanca. In that judgment it is stated that companies must maintain a daily hourly count of their workers and workers to determine only the existence of extraordinary hours and remove the obligation on the ordinary day. Of course, we are faced with a real sense, that the record is only mandatory when extraordinary hours are held, because for these to be extraordinary, you will have to start from which ordinary ones are; i.e., it looks like a kind of workaround but it's a real sense. I mean, you have to take a record to find out what the extraordinarys are, but those are going to be computed from where you know where you start and where you end the work day. It seems — I insist — so much that it is a bit complicated to explain that this question has to be clarified. And what is the current situation from that sentence? Well, it's the workers and the workers who have to try what their day is and they have to prove that they perform overtime, that they perform hours outside the work day. This is creating an increase — as I said — of litigiousness, and that judgement by the Supreme Court, which states that it is only necessary for overtime to exist, says that it does so in the light of what those Articles 34 and 35 set out, and the same judgment states that legislative amendment is necessary and desirable. The room itself states that "a legislative reform would be desirable which would clarify the obligation to bring a time log and make it easier for the worker to prove the realization of extraordinary hours." In other words, the Supreme Court says that the ruling is based on that in articles 34 and 35 it is not clearly established and also calls for a legislative reform to be carried out so that it is clear. And precisely in the face of that exhortation is why the IGC transfers that legislative amendment. Because the absence of a daily log of days, the difficulty or impossibility of knowing what is that daily counting of hours worked, what does that mean? Well, workdays of Leonines, rising days in an indecent way, hours worked and not charged, overtime worked hours, overtime not recorded, overtime not paid, overtime not paid. I mean, we're also on part-time trips that actually turn into full-time days, but it's not paid or paid for these full-time days. I mean, we're faced with a situation that's a problem for workers and workers, that goes against their rights, that goes against their payrolls, but it also goes against what's the Social Security box, because all those hours do not compete or go to the Social Security box. So, we're talking about fraud in contributions to the Social Security box, theft of the future rights of the working class, because it means that, if it's not repeated, future pensions will be reduced, and theft of social benefits, starting with unemployment benefits. And then there are several derivatives as well. First of all, that over-the-journality makes it more sinister, both at the workplaces and also on the way. And it's evidence that the realization of a working time exceeding the established legal day is being a norm rather than an exception. Therefore, this proposed law that we promote would cover this need for regulatory clarification and legal security, modifying — in a very brief but clarifying way — the one set out in Articles 34 and 35 of the Staff Regulations and also amending Article 7 of the Law on Offences and Penalties in Social Order, in order to establish as a serious infringement of labour relations, both individual and collective, the lack of control in the daily log. With this legal amendment it is intended to avoid irregular prolongations of the day, which prejudice — I insist — the economic and legal interests of workers and workers and their right to employment and family reconciliation. It also affects job creation and consequently the decrease in unemployment. In particular, the change that is requested is to add a new paragraph to Article 7 — and here I refer to a small error in the initiative—; then it is to add a new point, which would be point 9, where the company is established to be responsible for carrying a daily record of each worker's working time, and that record will be kept for at least three years after the end of the period considered. The company will be obliged to make it easier for the workers to apply for it and for the legal representation of the workers a copy of the record of the hours worked. An amendment to Article 35(5) — and this is where the error is, because Article 34 and Article 35 — is put in the initiative, where it is established that, for the purpose of the overtime, the ordinary day of each worker's work will be recorded in accordance with Article 9, i.e. what he said at the outset: that there is an ordinary day of business and from there the calculation of overtime will be established, from that date. And then the amendment to that Royal Legislative Decree 5/2000 of 4 August of the Law on Offences and Penalties in Social Order is also requested, where in that article 7 it establishes what serious offences are and in the article it would be added to what is already set out in the article, that is, it is a serious penalty for the violation of norms and legal limits in everything it establishes and in addition to the transgression of the newspaper record. I mean, a question -- I insist -- which is simple, but it means a great advance for the rights of the working class. And these issues I'm commenting on aren't statistical issues, they're not questions that have no consequences in people with names and surnames. And we could talk here today for hours of private cases of men and women who are seen in this situation that I'm describing: they know what time they start but not what time they end, that they have part-time contracts that are actually full-time contracts, contracts for 4 hours that become not in 8, but in 10, in 12 and more. But I'm going to choose to refer to whole sectors, cases of collectives where this situation of performing overtime that doesn't compete and don't pay, far from being the exception, becomes the norm. According to data from the EPA itself — which I am not inventing — the overtime paid already exceeds those paid in all sectors. However, there are some where this is especially bleeding. The first of these is the banking sector, one of the biggest fraud recorded. Financial institutions are the biggest fraud in social security. Although the sector staff is one of the most extraordinary hours, they are neither charged nor charged. I think we all know people who tell us that they spend the afternoons in the financial institution making extra hours that they don't appear anywhere and for those who don't charge; they spend whole afternoons trying to achieve the goals that mark them by banking -- I insist — without them being paid and without consisting for the purpose of quote. And it was precisely Abanca and Bankia, these rescued entities with more than 21 billion public euros, who fought and got the Supreme's Social Chamber to pass that sentence by eliminating the obligation to record the actual day. We can continue with more sectors. Another where it's also very common to perform extra hours that are not computed and unpaid is in the food trade, where thousands of Galicians and galleys work, in a very important part women, and they don't have time control mechanisms to detect these extraordinary hours that they do, but neither do businesses pay nor pay, nor make up for rest time. We can talk about a tragic event in the expansion of the Rande Bridge, where workers and workers denounced this situation; they denounced the holding of 10 and 12 hours to 60 meters high in full sun for 7 euros an hour, a complaint that brought here to this Parliament the very Nationalist Galego Bloc, which was ignored and which has now settled with the tragic death of a worker last July. We can talk about the case of ambulances here in Galicia, where we are talking about a public contract and where workers and workers systematically claim that it is limited in agreement to carry out overtime, that there is an excess of a day that affects staff especially with very precarious contracts. In short, we are talking about a situation that is generalized and that, of course, I ask for support for this legislative amendment, because, as a Greek legislative power, we have an obligation to ensure that the working conditions of the Greeks and the Greeks are at least insignificant. And I consider it to be consistent that the hour begins the working day and that time ends seems to be one of those fundamental and minimum rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Round of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u5	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Allow me, before the youth to explain the Socialist Group's position on this initiative, to remember that next November 25 is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, and that is why the Socialist Group and each of the Members and Members we make today's commitment, as did our political organization over these last decades, to fight this violence. That's why I, Noela Blanco, Member of the Socialist Group, once again commit myself to the state pact against gender-based violence and promise to work for and to improve and enrich the same from the collective and also individually. [[Applause]] I want to go to the initiative and thank the support of the Nationalist Block Galego for the bill presented by the Socialist Group at the Congress of Deputies this June this year. When we look at and look at the registration date, it turns out that the Galego Nationalist Block was registered a few weeks after my fellow Member, in addition to the province of Ourense, Mrs. Rocío de Frutos had done so in the Congress of Deputies. What has been the course of this bill since the Socialist Group — I repeat — registered it at the Congress of Deputies? For it was discussed on October 17 in the plenary, it was adopted with the votes against the People's Party and today it is in the process of amendment. The proposed law that brings the BNG today is practically a picture, except for that mistake that Mrs. Prado commented on, because when copying you also have to be very careful and copy exactly the same. We, Mrs. Prado, don't mind being copied to the Socialist Group. Welcome to any kind of progressive initiative that you want to copy. What bothers us — and I have to say — is that we are deeply disturbed by the manager's spirit; what bothers us is that they make them seem like themselves when they are not. That is a failure to work, of course, of the entire Socialist Group in Congress and also of my Rocky companion of Fruits. In any case, we, since the bill is ours, will vote in favour, as could not be otherwise. We understand that the minimum thing to start talking about quality at work is that a worker can prove what he works for and that he covers what he works for and that he also cheats on what he covers. The establishment of these mechanisms to try to control marathon days is not a hand of saint, it will not solve the enormous problems that the labour market has, but it will try to work on the path of avoiding the disastrous consequences that they have for the economy of our country and also for the lives of people these marathon days. First of all, by wage devaluation; it's one of the most important pathways, to work longer with less pay, and it negatively affects precariousness. It also has a negative impact on equality between men and women, on increasing this pay gap, on the rate of employment and also on women's activity, which is seen in these uncontrolled days as well as in their incorporation into the labour market. It's a barrier, of course, for employment and family reconciliation. Deployment of reasonable times is only possible when part of a proper working time management. And for that, it's a non-daily item. Stop job creation. We believe this is quite obvious. If the company meets its needs with workers who increase more than it is contractually established, even in the current legislation, its working hours, it develops a business activity at zero cost in many cases, which brakes — as it said — the creation of that job. According to the calculation made by trade union organizations, these hours would amount to more than 326,000 jobs. We're not talking about anything or a minor fact. It certainly affects the sustainability of the Social Security box and the financing of pensions, that box looted in recent years by the People's Party as well. The excess of hours spent and unregistered, and not paid or even paid in B, reduces, ladies and gentlemen, the contribution to Social Security, because the accounts corresponding to the hours actually worked are not entered. It affects the prevention of work risks and also increases the accidentability of those people who do a larger workday than they do. And this is especially unique in Galicia, in the autonomous community that has the rate of deadly incidence now even higher than all the communities of the state. Not only in the safety of workers, it also affects health itself, in personal development, in the increase in psychosocial risk factors. With regard to the day-to-day is a fundamental element in the management of job risk prevention and the registration is an essential aspect of ordering working time, rest and shifts. It is no surprise — as has already been noted here — the excess, the knowledge by all and all of the excesses of work, not only from hairdressers to waitresses, who work many more hours than they belong to them, even economists who work in large consultants from the most important cities of this country, in buildings where you can see the light lit up to nine o'clock at night. This fact of the increase in the days beyond the legally established and contractually agreed is one of the most frequent complaints before the Labour Inspection and also one of the worst results in the investigation and resolution of the work, given the difficulty of controlling this day's realization by both the labour inspectors and those workers who are forced to work beyond their work day, since they cannot prove that this is the case if they have no monitoring record mechanism, and because — it has been said here too — the workers' own regulations do not clearly regulate the obligation to record the day's work, which requires a non-defense for the workers and includes them in a vicious circle of not being able to demonstrate the hours they actually work. It's also the result of several national court rulings that conflict with the latter, with the last of the Supreme Court. Those of the National Audience consider it important to have a daily diary book available in all companies. However, the Supreme Court's judgment does what it does is only to have an impact on the need for that day to be recorded which is overtime rather than the ordinary working day. There were even two members of the Supreme Court who cast certain particular votes contrary to this interpretation. It is therefore necessary to harmonise, clarify this interpretation, in order to have a clear position on this precept. Look, Mrs. Prado, to our group it seems logical to us that the daily records are kept by the businessman for four years, because that's what was established in the bill that the Socialist Group presented, and it wasn't a whim: it turns out that four years is the time they have to claim workers and workers about these days. And you speak in your three-year bill, with which one year remains and increases the legal insecurity of what is already in place — I repeat — to deal with in the Congress of Deputies, which is now being amended and that even the Socialist Group has just amended itself, since we believe it is important that this register be made available to the legal representatives of the workers, which is essential, that you have this self-amendment of the Socialist Group already collected it in the bill. We therefore understand that the handling of this bill in the Congress of Deputies — I repeat — as is being done right now is an important and convenient mechanism, it is appropriate and proportionate. That is why — I repeat — we present it at the Congress of Members, so we will defend it. We're going to get to the end, we're going to try to improve a text that we understand also improves the lives of the workers in this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u7	Good morning. We fully agree with the BNG proposal and disagree in the form of the proposal. We fully agree at the bottom because it seems to us that we should bring where popular sovereignty lies the real problems of the Galician working class. And those issues that arise from the initiative of the unions and that the parliamentary groups bring it to Parliament seem to us a very positive step. We agree very much with that. Because, in addition, the BNG initiative is talking about a very serious problem that, in technical terms, is the irregular extension of the day and, in particular, it is the extra hours that are not paid. I like to give data to talk, and when I see them I was scared; I think they're hard to understand, even a little attention has to be paid to understand them. In Spain every week, every week, we make 6.5 million extraordinary hours. As in the year 52 weeks ago, every year 328 million hours of extraordinary work are being done in Spain. And more than half of them are overtime, unpaid, i.e. hours cheated on the working class, cheated on social protection systems, cheated on social security. It's easy to make an account of these 3.6 million hours not paid per week; 187 million extra hours not paid after a year amount to 4 billion euros, which are deducted directly from employees and also, in the corresponding part, from contributions to Social Security and IRPF. The data in Galicia is proportional to our weight in the labour market in Spain and, therefore, we do, the Greeks and the Greeks make 330,000 hours extra a week, 17 million overtime hours a year, of which 55% are not paid. So we're talking about a huge problem that affects many people, with serious consequences. It has consequences for employment. The total of extraordinary hours, as the spokesman for the Socialist Party said, that being done in our country would allow 350,000 jobs to be created. In a country that has a 17% unemployment rate, it's intolerable that overtime takes place in companies that fire workers. But it's just that the unpaid overtime, which is what we're talking about here today, would allow you to pay 160,000 jobs in Spain and 8,000 jobs in Galicia. The second variable is about wages, because what are the extra hours not paid? What's this about the irregular extension of the day? Well, directly, I treat you for four hours, I pay you for four hours, and you work for eight hours. And that, that way of overexploiting the working class, it's one of the tools for what's called wage devaluation, to create workers and poor workers, people hired for four hours who work eight hours but charge for four hours. In this sense, I wanted to say here that the initiative that has been approved, the bill passed at the Congress of Deputies, let's say that we consider a formal element, which is the existence of a register in companies, but the problem goes much further. I'll cite just one example. While there is the current regulation of the part-time contract, which allows extraordinary hours to be made in those part-time contracts without being regulated and defined, because it's like we have a schedule log for people. This is a positive measure, but it has to be framed in a much broader approach. Therefore, a problem of over-exploitation at work, which stems from low wages, which especially affects women, because in many cases it focuses on sectors of activity that are feminized. Third problem: which affects the public pension system. The People's Party has been cutting pensions for some time; lastly, that 0.25% increase when inflation is at 2% in what we've been in the year. Trade unions are clearly saying this: the problem is not to continue to cut down on social security expenses, but to increase income, and look at what makes it easier, fair and legal to increase income: that there is no such over-exploitation of unpaid hours, that scam for workers and the public system, which, in addition, creates unfair competition between companies, etc., etc. It obviously affects public income, state income, because since you don't charge IRPF, because it's a hidden income, an income from which businessmen who practice this illegal practice benefit exclusively. But there are more — and here it is said —. There are other negative consequences. The first is the greatest risk of accidents at work. That's perfectly studied by the system. Work accidents are concentrated in certain phases or moments, or in certain situations, and one of them is when the person is in his job beyond eight hours, which happens to many workers. And the latter is the difficulty of reconciling personal and professional life. If it's always difficult, with this kind of situation more, because what we're talking about is irregular days, unscheduled days, discretely decided days by the businessman -- "it's more time because you can't get out" -- and that prevents people from organizing their lives. In short, this is a matter of enormous quantitative importance: it affects people's wages, it affects employment, it affects social security, it affects taxes, labour health, the well-being of citizenship. That is why it seems very relevant to us to bring him to Parliament. I spend thirty seconds in shape. We are going to vote in favour, because, as the matter of substance is so important, we do not want to be there in support of this initiative, but, as the spokesman for the Socialist Party said, our Parliamentary Group of En Marea in Congress voted in favour of a bill exactly the same as we are debating today; it adopted it on 17 October, with the abstention of the Spanish right, of the PP and of the Citizens, who are not very interested in this problem of paid overtime, and is in the process of amending, and we know that the People's Party is ignoring the laws which the majority in Parliament adopt, the last one proposed pension law which the Parliamentary Group of En Marea in the Congress of Members. And possibly the usefulness of this proposal is to have an impact on that, in which the People's Party, which is the Government, actually takes forward what has already been approved in Congress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u8	Thank you, Mr. Lago. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Lago, allow me, first of all, to remind you that the freezing of our country's pensions was the Socialist Party's business. We never freeze pensions in Spain, we update pensions year after year and every year. Therefore, do not lie, for a thousand times repeated lie, Mr. Lago, remains a lie. That's the reality. Today, we are surprised by the Galego Nationalist Block, as is customary in this first year of legislation, with an impossible initiative. The Congress of Deputies is going to admit to the proceedings a bill on the daily log on the workers' day, a bill that has already been admitted to the proceedings on October 17th — as they well remembered from the Socialist Party and also from the Tides of Podemos — and therefore is already admitted to the proceedings at the Congress of Deputies for more than a month ago. After Mrs. Blanco's crackdown, I have the feeling that the BNG should withdraw this initiative, because it leads to an impossible situation. What do we say to the Congress of Deputies? May I once again admit another initiative and debate twice with which it is already being debated? But what barbarity is that? So, don't be incongruent, and I ask the Socialist Party not to be incongruent either, because his colleagues at the Congress of Deputies, Mrs. Fruits, will think that the Socialist Party of Galicia doesn't find out, just like the Nationalist Block of Galicia. They propose to raise to the Congress of Members an initiative which is already being amended, Mrs Prado Cores, discussed at the Congress on 17 October, incorporated on the agenda of this plenary at the Meeting of Voices on 14 November. Either they don't know or they're kidding us, or what's really going on is something else. Look, we share to a good extent the need to regulate a question like the daily log of the workers' day, of course. We understand that this is because it is a matter that for years has been in a sort of legal limbo and that it has created a certain legal insecurity, partially solved by this recent Supreme Court judgment, and it is also the Supreme Court itself who values the convenience of promoting a legislative reform that clarifys the obligation to carry out a time log that makes it easier for workers to believe in the realization of overtime. In this sense, it's true that this type of record can help avoid abuses about overtime or over-time pay, and therefore it directly affects the quality of work and the working conditions. Every reform that serves to avoid fraud we will support it, any reform that serves to protect workers' rights and to provide ourselves with a work environment that is the safest legally we will support it. It is also true that in our Autonomy we have our own tools to avoid the fraud we all know, that we have all heard. And, therefore, I have to tell you that the Galician Council is launching, in coordination with the State, and runs a work inspection plan to ensure the working rights of the Greek workers. In this plan I have to tell you that in 2016 73,388 actions were carried out, which resulted in 3,997 infringement proceedings, amounting to more than 15 million euros in amounts of sanctions corresponding to detected infringements; of 73,000 inspections, nearly 4,000 acts of infringement sanctions. Since 2009, which we have been ruling in Galicia, more than 700,000 have been held, Mrs Prado, 700,000 actions, which have resulted in more than 40,000 acts of infringement, and which amount to 132 million euros in sanctions. So the work inspection plan is working, it's giving its fruit. Inspectorate activity is focused on ensuring that effective legislation on occupational safety and health is complied with in terms of recruitment, as well as agreements and agreements reached in the wake of labour relations, the employment of foreigners and the prevention of fraud against social security. This chapter also includes other types of actions, such as monitoring to ensure the proper functioning of TTEs, that there are no cases of discrimination in terms of gender, non-payment or late payment of wages, or monitoring working hours to ensure compliance with the working day. In this sense, it should be noted that the Union has a specific plan, a plan to control the proper use of training contracts, a plan to control non-working practices in companies and in general the pursuit of fraud in recruitment. Thanks to this plan last year, the conversion of nearly 3,000 temporary contracts into indefinite contracts has been achieved. So we're working on that issue that everyone is worried about, we're working in Galicia. The Galician Union also carries out specific inspectoral actions against undeclared employment. In 2016 they were more than 33,200, allowing them to flourish in our community 4,450 jobs submerged. All of this is a further demonstration of the commitment of this government, of the commitment of the parliamentary majority to it, of the workers' rights and of the guarantees to which they must perform their work. It is also true that the reality of the labour market, not only the present but also the future, is that of the flexibility of conditions and schedules; it is thank you, Mrs Prado. We live in times when businesses, self-employed people, small businesses, businesses in general demand greater freedom to self-organize, because they work more and more on the basis of their results and less on the basis of work presentism. Markets are currently flexible, types of work are also sound and business models are varied. To propose an improvised legislative reform as you bring, which only serves to introduce greater rigidity and that it is not the fruit of broad dialogue and consensus, where we have to talk to social agents, I think it's not the right thing to do. We will not ask BNG to put himself at the vanguard of labor legislation, proposing future solutions, we do not ask him; we do not even ask him to understand the present as it is. We just want you to understand that your proposal today is extemporaneous and out of place. In fact, we have the impression that the inconcretion with which this bill was presented today, the only thing that would provoke is greater uncertainty for employers and also for workers. Who would be subject to this regulation? Mrs. Prado, you didn't say so. All companies? The self-employed, too? Those who have a couple of employees, too? He didn't clarify anything in this sense, because, if he did, maybe some small business would be strongly damaged by the challenge he knew in terms of management and the company's own logistics. In this sense, perhaps in some sectors it would be more interesting to give new impetus to collective bargaining, as we have already proposed from the People's Parliamentary Group, by the way, to the refusal of the opposition groups. And besides, I must remind you, Mrs Prado, that there is a social dialogue table in Madrid on the quality of employment, with broad representation, in which relevant reflections are being given to improve legislation in this regard. You want to legislate without listening to social agents. I think it would be important to listen to what the social dialogue tables say, to implement those agreements in the current legislation. Look, I have the feeling that, with this initiative, BNG the only thing you want is simply to get out of the picture. Look, the presentation of this bill, the debate that brings us here today, leads us to wonder what really motivates the BNG to bring this initiative, knowing that a debate is already under way in Congress of Deputies, driven by the Socialist Group. I have the feeling that the only reason that can happen to us is to understand that the attitude of the Nationalist Block is precisely that: to want to get out in the picture. BNG wants to appear to have something to say in the national debate, in this debate, when it is not even present at the Congress of Deputies. But, Mrs. Prado, don't be angry. They're not at the Congress of Deputies because they didn't want it because the Greeks didn't want it; the Greeks didn't see it at the BNG a good representative of the Greek society at the Congress of Deputies, they didn't want it; they didn't want it at the elections in December 2015, they didn't want it when those elections were repeated six months later. And so if you in this matter, which I already tell you is in the parliamentary debate, have no voice or vote, it's just because the Greeks didn't want it, they didn't want you to represent them in Madrid. That's the reality. But I'm going to offer you a solution, which I think may interest you. Look, since you can't participate in the Congress of Members in the debate on this initiative, which I say to you, you don't have to ask Congress to accept the procedure because it has already been admitted, talk to its partners, talk to Bildu; there are two Members of Bildu, you are already members of Bildu in the European Parliament, where an adviser has been placed there, and I propose that you, through the Members of Bildu, who are in the Joint Group, bring your contributions and also those of the IGC. I propose that they follow that model, and therefore we will also know whether those photos that you take with Mr. Otegui allow BNG to have political weight, political weight — yes — in Euskadi. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u10	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u11	I ask them to take this Parliament seriously. You cannot accept the processing which has already been admitted to the processing process. And I also ask the Socialist Party for some coherence, because if not, their fellow Members at the Congress of Deputies will think that the Socialist Party in Galicia is not to re-enter through that congress, it is to go wrong, they go worse, because they ask Congress to do what they've done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u12	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica. Author group of the bill, Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u13	Thank you, President. Mr. Tellado, you are the chronicle of an announced exabrupt. It's just that by not getting to the bottom of the questions because it's capable of... well... It is clear that this Parliament has legislative capacity, and it is clear that this Parliament has the ability to raise initiatives which are not within its competence to make it the Congress of Members whatever it does. I started my speech today saying that the initiative brought by the BNG had been transferred by the IGC to political organizations represented in this Parliament and in the Congress of Deputies. The IGC has made it public, and there's the hemerotheques. I really regret, Mrs. Blanco, the paper that you just made here, I deeply regret it, because, of course, the object of debate on this initiative... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u14	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u15	...the debate on what is going on in this Parliament was going on. Look, the IGC released on June 13, 2017, the IGC promotes a bill to establish the daily business workday record; a press release accompanying the literality of the bill, a literality that the Nationalist Block Galego made itself and registered in this Parliament on June 16, 2017. The proceedings were admitted on June 19, published, etc., etc. I don't come here to compete for who introduced you before. I come here to say that there has been a union, the IGC, which, in the face of a problem that is out there, in the face of a problem that is affecting thousands of Greeks and Greeks, which is that there is no obligation to have a daily account, that there is no obligation for workers and workers to know at what time they come in and at which time they end, so there is no way to know what extra hours and which they are not, that in front of that, and that there was a Supreme Court ruling that says it in the explanatory statement, before a Supreme Court ruling that this matter as regulated in Article 34 and 35 of the Staff Regulations of Workers is not clear, and that the Supreme Court itself says that it would be good to make that legislative amendment, the IGC makes it public and transfer it to political organizations in this Parliament and the Congress of Members. And I think it's good for the Socialist Party to echo and do it as its own. I don't think it's right to say it's own initiative, because that's not true. I don't think that's right. Just like BNG doesn't say it's BNG's initiative, because it's not BNG's initiative, because it was the CIG who moved it. [[Applause]] And I think it's a real potato mixture, of course, coming here to be attributed to the maternity or parternity of something that has been transferred to us by a union. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With which, the objective of the BNG was that the debate should be held here, because the People's Party would actually vote in favour if it were not being dealt with in the Congress of Deputies, Mr Tellado? Would you vote for it? No, then don't hide behind him. And I think it makes sense that the debate can be held in this Parliament on issues affecting the Galician working class. What is unquestionable is that there is an increase in part-time recruitment in Galicia, which in 2016 increased by 92.83%. What does part-time contracts mean? In their vast majority, they are not volunteers, they are not workers and workers who demand part-time employment, they are the companies themselves that make their contracts. Why? Because part-time contract, full-time contract, covers half and works full-time. That's the reality. Just like it's a reality that the increase in overtime hours by unpaid workers was exponential. And that's a reality. And that legislative change means Fierabrás's balsam and that's what it's going to solve right away? No, but it's a touch of attention. And it was that touch of attention that BNG wanted to bring this here today, so that this Parliament would strengthen the position of the debate being held in the Congress of Members, to strengthen the position in the debate. The People's Party voted against in Congress and, of course, will vote against today, and I would vote against it even if there was no debate in Congress. That's the real reality. Because, if not, we turn it into a non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado, supporting the initiative that is under discussion in Congress. Let's see what you're voting for then. We're moving it into a non-law proposal to support the debate in Congress. To see they vote at that time, to see what the excuse they have at that time. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Tellado, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u17	Yes, based on Article 76, for allusions or inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u18	Excuse me a moment, yes, yes. If there's an inaccurateness, tell me exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u19	Inaccuracy is that Mrs Prado says that at the Congress of Deputies on October 17, the People's Party voted against this bill and it is not true. The People's Party abstained, leaving the issue at the social dialogue tables. Since the BNG isn't in Madrid, it's not in Congress because the Greeks didn't want it, because Mrs. Prado doesn't know what's going on there. It's too bad.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u20	That's exactly how it was. That is clear, which has actually emerged in the debate and has thus been clarified, let us vote. We must therefore vote on this in the light of the proposed legislation of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Bill to present before the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the establishment of a daily business workday record. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, this bill is not taken into consideration in order to present it before the Congress of Deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u21	Open the doors, please. We continue with the agenda, with point 2, attend Pleno. Opinion of the Vice-President and Chairman of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice, on his own request, to inform the new proposals for emergency coordination
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u22	The Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice have the floor to make this speech.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u23	Good morning, gentlemen. I share in this House, on my own request, to talk about the management of emergencies; to talk about the previous situation, to talk about the current situation and, above all, about the future situation and the need to coordinate so that that that situation that we have raised from Galicia to the future is actually effective and indeed serves what it has to serve, which is something as important as ensuring the safety of the Greeks and the Greeks. This is not my first time in this House to talk about emergencies. It is a matter of priority, of course, for the Government, even though it is not — I think this was the first thing to say — an autonomous competition, or, at least, an entirely autonomous competition, or much less. I believe that to center this audience I would like to begin by quoting, not least, what it says to Law 5/2007, about emergencies in Galicia, approved law — I remember — in a parliament with a majority bipartisan, in 2007. What establishes this law? The truth is that it is quite concrete and quite clear when it comes to distributing skills. Article 26 refers to provincial representations. What do provincial emergency deputations have to do? For nothing but the provision of the Emergency Management and Civil Protection Service. And what does that include? Firefighting services and rescue services. Where? In those municipalities that do not contain their own services. Why can't they count on their own services? Or because they are not obliged, because they have some kind of dispensation; or because they do not reach the population threshold from which it is mandatory — i.e., they do not reach 20,000 inhabitants —. That is, 93% of Galician municipalities must have secured their emergency service, including rescue and fires, through provincial deputies. Article 27: What do the municipalities that have the obligation, the municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants have to do? They have to create a municipal civil protection service and they have to manage their emergencies, as well as prevention, firefighting and rescue services. And what does the Galician Union have to do? Of course, he also has obligations, and clearly sets them out in Law 5/2007. You have a duty to ensure superior coordination and the leadership of civil protection. For what? To ensure a unitary allowance in emergencies that require it. That is to say, guarantee the provision to 93% of the municipalities with subsidiary management by the deputies; in the other 7%, municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants, the municipalities directly; and the highest coordination, by the Galician Union. I think this legal framework is very important to make it clear. And I'm saying this because, from here on, you can actually make decisions, you can achieve coordination, and you can sort of clear up a debate that often gets confused when you say that competition is one, and it's not another. Of course, the Galician Union will not give up — it has never done so or intends to do so — its responsibilities, its responsibilities, which I insist on, but they are. Higher coordination implies shared responsibility, of course, competing responsibility and therefore coordinating different public administrations; i.e. seeking ways of dialogue and collaboration. And that's what I want to pose in this audience. There are directly responsible administrations — local authorities, deputies and councils — and therefore they must be helped, in coordination, to be able to fulfil and exercise their powers in the best possible way. I'm not counting — I think — anything new. I think we've been cooperating with different administrations for a long time in emergency matters. And the progress — of those I also want to talk about, especially by comparing the previous situation with the present and the future to which we want to reach — is always explained from coordination. Let me simply remind you of the situation of the year 1999 — not so long ago, it will now be eighteen years ago —. Galicia had just seven professional fire parks, only seven professional fire parks in the big cities. Then there was some park with certain professional characteristics, but it wasn't a city park. And there was nothing else. There were solutions in some places, when they had a problem they were trying to find solutions. But solutions, of course, that have little to do with those that exist today and those that we want them to exist. Eighteen years later, as I said, what's the situation? For I believe that it is, fortunately for everyone and for all, quite different: 32 parks of professional firefighters operating throughout the territory of Galicia, and they are also coordinated: the comarcas parks, which are the ones that make 32, remaining these 7 -- that is, 25 comarcas parks in four provincial consortia and a single management -- there are 24 supramunicipal emergency groups, there are 226 groups of civil protection volunteers, there is a logistic support group that depends on the Galician Board for intervention in large emergencies, and there is a focal point coordination centre technologically. I mean, the situation now, compared to that of eighteen years ago, as I said, fortunately has little to do with it. And we've moved from "salt yourself who can" to a situation that is obviously better -- there's a lot to improve -- but it has little to do with what we've had a while ago. Of course, in the Galician Union — and of course also in the Bipartite years, in the years prior to the Bipartite and in the years after the Bipartite — I believe that very important efforts have been made. It's up to me to speak on behalf of the Galician Council, I think it's easy to understand when making proposals to responsible administrations. We have made substantial progress: this Emergency Care Centre, on the Road — what I shall soon talk about —; we have promoted the deputies — as I said — the parks of comarcas fire stations; we have put in place the supra-municipal emergency groups, in collaboration with Fegamp; we have done, we are doing and we will make a very important effort to train in Agasp, and to approve this training. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can say that, within the autonomous communities that are not uni-provincial and therefore where there are Members — who are competent here, I insist — probably together with Catalonia, the Autonomous Community of Galicia is what it is doing, what it has always been doing and what it will continue to do, a very outstanding budgetary effort, much more than other autonomous communities in the whole state. Today you can say — and I think that what is measurable is hardly opinable — that about 60% of public spending on emergencies in Galicia comes from the Autonomous Community, that in purity it would have only the coordination competence in the upper eidus, which I had previously referred to, which is the exception to the 2007 Emergency Act. By giving them some figures, in the last three years, in addition to all the actions that I have told them now — 111, training, firefighter consortia — the contributions that are made are: Civil Protection, which is sometimes the great forgotten — thousands and thousands of volunteers and volunteers doing a fundamental job — we have dedicated almost 10 million euros, and practically alone — groups that in most cases have municipal character — 110 totals, 50 vans, 53 boats, 152 trailers — the list is very long. This year 2018, 2 million euros more, something that I do think is undisputable here, as far as competitions, since the clarity of the Law of the Year 2007. But with regard to civil protection, it is especially so. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Union has been doing its emergency duties for a long time — and we have to do a lot more, I insist — and working on the continuing improvement of emergencies in Galicia, looking for that coordination. And the other administrations must do the same. And I think, in addition, after the events experienced in October, there's too much reason. Earlier, but I think that after the fires of October with even more reason and stronger. We had been working on the design of a new emergency map for months before October, telling other administrations that they also had to get involved -- and I think they were doing so -- And that's why today I would appear on behalf of the Galician Council in front of you to move them first — even before the administrations involved — the proposals of the Galician Council, which were at least pointed at the first constitutive meeting of the emergency group that took place just a month ago and which was convened even yesterday in a few days after I realized all this in the Galician Parliament. So I bring this House, ladies and gentlemen, concrete actions to build a new emergency stage. And we believe that you have to spin — to make a global summary but to understand the object of my appearance well — into two fundamental axes: first, to achieve an immediate and effective response in the matter of emergencies within what isocrone is called — what technicians call isocrone, that is, a reasonable time for that response to be effective and therefore lent by professionals and by means of appropriate means; and also to have a lot of impact on the subject of prevention, as a second axis. This honestly here is going to be logically pointed out by the mechanicals of appearance, but the global ideas I want to make here today I think they're supported by a deep study of this subject by whom you really know and know about it. And, therefore, what I ask — and I am sure it will be — is that it is treated with the responsibility that deserves this work; above all, thinking that later it has to bear fruit in the future. I already say that immediately after that we will transfer it to the working group that was set up within the Galician Civil Protection Commission, which I say has been convened since yesterday, and is going to meet on the following day 29. And then we have to move forward. I hope, in addition, that you advance quickly. It's a proposal, in addition — I have to say because, if not, it's very difficult for it to work — which has concrete budget splits of the year 2018. And those who have had the opportunity to be present at the Commission 1st know them. The Galician Union has budgeted the amounts to deal with the part of the commitments we are proposing. And what is to be expected is that the other competent direct administrations will do the same — for that is this group — and so we can take these proposals forward. I'm beginning with the suggestions, with the concrete proposals, which I wanted to put forward. First of all, to give an effective and professional response, the first thing to do, ladies and gentlemen, is to remove the still dark areas on the emergency map, which still exist, and so you have to face them and try to cover them as soon as possible. The emergencies — we all understand this — do not understand administrative divisions, do not understand borders other than those that prevent an effective provision of emergency services. And, therefore, devices to deal with emergencies should not understand these administrative divisions or those borders either. For this reason, what we have to do is put together the means we have, see how they can work better and where it's necessary to put more means, because it does. And, therefore, with this we will avoid, on the one hand, overlaps — that there are them too. It doesn't make sense to be with an overdose of means in areas where at best with a little less is sufficient and at the same time that there are areas where there should be means and there are not or exist in a smaller amount than it would be appropriate. What do you have to do to avoid these dark areas, these empty emergency care geographic gaps? There are several formulas. The first one I bring here is already known. The board pointed it at that emergency group, but I wanted to develop it a little bit more here. The first one is to make a proposal to comarcalyize the parks of the cities. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1999, when the entire development of the current emergency map began, it's true that the city parks, the metropolitan areas next to the cities, were a little side by side thinking that the first thing to do was equipping the villages, the comarcas, a professional emergency service as they now have. And that was the most urgent thing because there was nothing. And the more or less they were taking care of their areas of influence from the cities, because that was not paying attention to what was likely to be had from the beginning, and for many reasons — the first probably budgetary —. Well, now we have budget to be able to handle it and there are seven fire parks that have been operating in cities for a long time, seven professional parks. And if we reached a goal of being able to agree with them on this comarcallization, this would significantly reduce emergency response times in their metropolitan areas, in the municipalities around them. I'll give them some examples. For example, in Santiago Park, where they can be — because it is true that there has already been an attempt at the moment — at least the most advanced calculations or even negotiations would be served all the municipalities around: Milladoiro, for example, in 10 minutes; Bertamirans and Sigüeiro, in 14. These are the calculations made by the technicians on both sides. In Pontevedra Park: Poio and areas closest, only in 3 minutes; Marín, 13/14 minutes; Caldelas Bridge, 20 minutes. In the Coruña, attention to Culleredo in 9 minutes; to Oleiros, in 14. And in Vigo this would make sense, in addition, to the planning of emergency care from a metropolitan area, which was in the planning of the area and which would undoubtedly be one of the services that would make it more visible, comarcasizing the Vigo park. And, ladies and gentlemen, so we could continue with the other cities, up to seven. These are calculations — I insist — made by technicians. Computing an average of 50 km/h emergency vehicle displacement, within 20 minutes city firefighters, from seven cities, would reach a 15-kilometre radius, which is just as much as saying that everyone could cover an area that is not currently covered — at least not covered as it should — 700 square kilometers. I give them another figure: more than 260,000 people would be protected, which is almost 10% of Galician population. It's the people who live in the areas around the big cities. This requires a lot of things. It requires, of course, administrative will, it requires coordination, it requires a series of calculations. Because one thing is clear — and that's what I understand perfectly and have been manifested by several mayors when there was a situation in which city councils had to be held around the cities: one cannot, in order to meet a council that is next to it, leave behind the main objective, which is the park itself, the city to which that park serves. We understand this perfectly, so what we have to do is to provide more resources, to make work organizations, to give more means, so that we can properly address the two areas of the city, which are already being cared for, and the metropolitan areas, the areas that are around these cities. This is worth money. We have recorded, so that we can start doing so from the day that comes into force, the budget, if necessary. I know there's got to be some negotiations, but it could already be done for our band from the beginning. It is EUR 1.7 million that would correspond to the part of the Galician Union, making a proposal for a logical scenario, seeing as the provincial consortia are currently funding themselves, to provide the corresponding part, which is now being 50% in most cases. And there would also be talk -- and this is a plan that should be done in the bosom of the Fegamp -- even I think there are municipalities that would be willing, the municipalities that are now obliged to have firearms park and they don't, and they need to be cared for -- that even the municipalities of over 20,000 inhabitants could also make their contribution. So I'd go down to what they would have to do both the Galician Union and the provincial deputies. We have to talk about it, but if we talk about it and then we look for the money, then we let it pass much more. We already have the money and now we're going to try to talk about it, so we are asking for speed and commitment from the other administrations. And I hope that, in this emergency group that is created, we can do it quickly. I insist, we could have done it since January 1st. I understand that January 1 is a date that is already there, but we could do it, of course, during the year 2018. This would be the first approach, the comarcallization of the parks of the cities. It is clear that, while comarcalyizing the parks of the cities, there will be areas where there will not be — no isochronous 20 minutes — and they will still be shaded. What to do there? Then logically you'll have to supply them with an emergency resource that doesn't exist right now, you'll also have to put money back on the table and resources of all administrations to cover those areas. The Galician Union has made a study which, of course, we will move to that working group within the Galician Civil Protection Commission to which I am referring. But from this joint analysis, I can point out to you that what you give the Galician technicians, the Axega technicians, is that it would be necessary to create ex again five new emergency services, five new groups. We'll see if they're supposed to be subparks, if they're supposed to be supramunicipal emergency groups. That's what we should talk about in that group. But it's clear that there are five areas that are now in shade, that they wouldn't be covered; they're not even covered by the comarcas parks or covered by comarcasmation. So we need to create those ex-new groups. It's five areas, about 40,000 people who would have to be covered by these new services and about 2,000 square kilometers. They do not escape that they are, above all, rural areas, areas located in places far away from the current parks and in places with little population, but which logically have all the right of the world — like what lives in a city or any other territory — to be cared for in a professional way. And so it would be these five areas, divided into different provinces, which would demand the creation of a new service. Just by checking out the city parks and creating these five major groups, which do not exist now, we would go from covering 65% of the territory in the 20-minute isochron — which is what we have now — covering nothing more and nothing less than 90%. It's true that there are still areas that wouldn't have that coverage, but these are areas that hardly have population and so it's not the most urgent to cover now. But we're talking about covering 25 percent more territory. In some cases they have absolutely no population. [[Murmurs.]] If they want, let's put a fire department there. So in the population coverage, we would go from 85% to more than 95% of the population covered. Right now there's 85% and we'd go over 95% and we'd get 100% within 20 minutes. Of course, they're substantial improvements, they're improvements calculated by technicians, which, I insist, are those that know. What we have to do with politicians, what we have to do with administrations, is implement measures to make them possible. And on behalf of the Galician Council, I insist that the budget allocations are in place. We need to know the will of the municipalities concerned and, of course, of the deputies, directly responsible and competent — I insist — for the attribution of a law of 2007 to ensure coverage — that they could have done so, but it is clear that the collaboration of the Galician Union is necessary — of 100% of the population in those municipalities — that is 93% — that they have no obligation to do so on their own. The second approach, after comarcalyization, is the creation of new groups where it is necessary, in shadow zones. The second would be to act on what is currently in place. What currently exists is the twenty-five emergency care groups, the GHGs. Those who have spent time in municipal life or in emergency management know perfectly the genesis of these GHGs. They began by being known Grumir, a community of rapid intervention groups, which were born at a time when there was nothing, with many eves, with a lot of needs for improvement, which came about. And then they evolved into a model that I think is a lot more perfected, which is the supra-municipal emergency groups. But, no doubt, they still need a lot of improvement and a management model, a model of permanence, which we would like at the Galician Summit that was already the definitive one. And here we are, and this is also what we're going to think about in the working group within the Galician Civil Protection Commission. This also costs money. It is necessary to calculate and it is also necessary, of course, political and administrative will. And besides knowing what we have to do with the GHG, we'll also have to know what we have to do with the fire parks, the district fire parks that are scattered throughout the territory. I used to say we didn't have one to have twenty-five in very little time, talking about the effort that was in just eighteen years. Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago I think there's been an audience asked by myself to talk about this subject, and it's already known by the media and there's been a lot of meetings. For a long time, the Galician Council told Members that they had a model change, after many years of working by indirect management — with Members of all political colors, who maintained an indirect management system — that there was no drawback in changing to a direct management model. We've been saying it for two years. And also two years ago, what we just said is that we want a proposal to guarantee, on the one hand, that public money to invest would no longer be — according to everything we are told, on the other hand, would be less — and that also the rights of the workers and workers who are now in the parks will have to guarantee them. You'll have to tell them exactly what this model change is all about. We simply ask for this, we call for plenary agreements and concrete proposals, for which we are still waiting, ladies and gentlemen. And, therefore, we have to say, if we have them tomorrow, tomorrow we can make that model change on the side of the Galician Union, without any problems. But this will have to define it as well. If we want a change in the emergency management model and we want a change for the future and a change that is permanent, this will have to end up defining beyond statements in newspapers, beyond saying that it's the Alliance of Galicia that is opposed to. The Galician Union is not opposed at all. And so we ask the deputies, in addition, to move files at once. This can be done tomorrow if it's really in your will to do what they say they want to do but never concrete. And then, from there, we can also talk about the approval, which is necessary, of the wages of all the laborers of the comarcas parks, as the Deputies of Lugo are claiming. The Galician Board has also this year booked the money needed to make such an approval. Of course, the Deputy of Lugo and the Deputy of Pontevedra—not in Ourense, because it is precisely the reference that is being taken to approve the wages of firemen—, the two Members who have not yet manifested themselves, will have to say, after clarifying the management model, if they are willing to make such an approval. The Galician Union is ready. And with this, I think we'll give definitive stability to the fire department parks. And the third performance would be, as I said before, what it means to supra-municipal emergency groups. He told them we're perfectly aware of the need for a review. And it would have to be, after the evolution of the Grumirs, after the implementation of the GHG, the third and final to give them stability; a resource that undoubtedly covers a large part -- and I think it covers satisfactorily, and should do so even more -- from attention to emergencies, especially in rural areas where there is no commercial fire department. What's our bet? I say: final consolidation. We have contributed decisively to their birth, we have contributed decisively to setting their financing model, not in vain the Galician Union continues to contribute 60%, and I insist on competent Members and Councils. And we spend a lot of resources on their formation in Agas and we spend a lot of resources on supplies of material; in this practically alone, along with the municipalities where they reside, which are not geographically municipalities, they know they have comarcal scope. The municipalities that are GHG holders are providing material and, of course, it is contributing nearly 3 million euros to the Galician Union in recent years in material intended for supra-municipal emergency groups by the Galician Union. What do we want to do now? First, act on its financing. Without a doubt, it is one of the great conditioners who have municipal emergency groups, who equips them with a conjunctural aspect that I think is not the most suitable one and therefore must try to stop these funds from being finalists and turn to a nature — at least in a large part — unconditional, that allows not to be so conditioned — is worth redundancy — for certain tasks that they have to do. And then you also talk to the deputies to reach a homogenization of wages and working conditions. They know that the Galician Union is contributing, as I said, 40%. In the agreement that we signed with the Fegamp, another 20% corresponded to the deputies and another 20% to the municipalities that care for the GHGs, usually the municipality owns that staff. Well, it's true that some Members were assuming 20% that corresponded to the municipalities. Today only the Deputy of Pontevedra goes on to say that he doesn't have to assume that 20%, that they already assume that of Lugo, that of the Coruña and that of Ourense. In the end, it is a decision of the House. I'm just saying that the other three are doing it and that the Galician Union is contributing 60%. And the desirable thing would be a homogenization, thinking that, if not, it would correspond to the Members 100% of the funding of these supra-municipal emergency groups. We should also, in the GHG, redefine their roles and means, both individuals and materials, try to have the same material resources, the same staffing and training in all cases. This has been happening these years, but we have to do it definitely. And, therefore, also advance in the homogenization of their working conditions as compared to the salary. This is going to have a lot of influence — I say — for Members to assume part of the municipalities. GES takes a year. This year, the Rural Council is going to provide a million more to further reduce unconditional funding, but we have this year to define, together with Fegamp and above all in the emergency group, what we want GHGs to be from now on. I say, the proposals of the Galician Council are to make funds — the less unconditional, the better — that they continue to make prevention — that I believe that the councils also agree on this, but that they pay particular attention to emergencies; that they have similar working and wage conditions and that, above all, they do not depend on future agreements, but rather have already, with the sources of funding that are necessary, a commitment by the administrations to be a permanent resource in time. We're talking about emergency media covering a very important part of the Greek territory, especially in rural areas. All this costs money, in all this it costs to make suggestions — I insist — for what they really know. But all of this has to be taken to the Civil Protection Commission, it has to be negotiated with the Fegamp. And the commitment on the part of the Galician Union, at least, is that in the first six months of the year 2018 it is now closed — although there are now six months of the current model – what the GHGs will be here in the future and without deadlines, which will be permanently from 1 January 2019. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, within this redesign and these emergency map proposals, of the Greek emergency system for the future, we should take even more into account the civil protection groups, which are thousands and thousands of people who every day — especially on weekends, but every day of the year — are willing to attend events, complement the professional emergency services and set their time, which is the most valuable thing they have, and their will and vocation of service, at the disposal of others, forming, lending their assignments. And, therefore, the minimum we can do for administrations — our obligation — is to equip them with material resources. I insist, the Galician Union, almost 10 million euros alone. No other administration, no municipalities, practically, except rare exceptions, no Members, thought that it was necessary to equip civil protection groups with material, and it was very necessary, very necessary. It was not to be accepted that volunteers had to go to the operations in their vehicles, it was not to be heard that they had a performance, knowing what they had to do because they had training, and that they didn't have the means to do it. All that had to be done. And I think you can see, by speaking, that with the vast majority of volunteers and volunteers, that before and after in the matter of material is very familiar. It was a debt that we all had pending and that, of course, the Galician Union has settled. I think that from now on we should do it all, not just the Galician Union, and bear in mind that obviously the emergencies in Galicia cannot drive, not much less, exclusively on the volunteers and volunteers of Civil Protection, but they are an important complement that is sometimes not taken into account enough. Another proposal we want to make is the empowerment of the new road focal point, the new emergency centre on the road. It will be the year 2018 the first full year of operation of this new center. It's been operational for some time -- they know it started in 2017 -- but in the coming months, it's going to be when all the targets are unfolded and all the goals that this centre was born into are met, and therefore the improvements that are expected in relation to the previous situation. And the fundamental improvement is the integration in your day-to-day, in your operation, of the different emergency care resources we have in Galicia, i.e. firefighters, GES, marine rescue, Civil Guard, National Police, Adscript Police Unit. All these bodies, ladies and gentlemen, should, and are going to have this year's representation in this operational center. This will speed up, improve, significantly manage each emergency. In addition, this will join the road transfer during 2018 from the other large emergency center in Galicia, which is 061. Of course, this integration will be very relevant when it comes to speeding up call attention. It will allow for much more optimal execution and new organizational formulas; for example, what is called the "participation room", which consists — in a very short way — of what will be operators who heed the warnings, i.e. incoming calls, and then will be derived from other operators who, in a specialized way, can mobilize resources. And, of course, the demand for exclusive attention to mayors and mayors through 112. The centre has registered its telephone numbers, which they bring, and therefore when a mayor or mayor calls 112 he will always and exclusively be attended by the technician who is currently on duty without entering by the normal call system of the rest produced in 112. These, ladies and gentlemen, would be the major features — and, by the imperatives of attendance, to realise, of course, much more in the working group — the proposals of the Galician Council to further advance in the coordination of emergencies with regard to professional care, effective attention and reasonable attention, within the time of the twenty minutes. Another big issue would be prevention — I think it's as important as attention — a proper prevention for later attention, when it comes to it, to be attention derived from the fact that prevention could not prevent certain situations. How do we want to do this prevention? The first and fundamental is through training and information actions to society. Emergency services must — I believe that they are increasingly being taken into account throughout Spain, across Europe, and I am sure that all over the world — to seek to inform the population, to seek awareness-raising, self-protection campaigns, to know what to do in order to avoid certain risks and how to act when these risks occur. This then makes it very easy for emergency services to work when they have to intervene. So, since the Galician Union, we have committed ourselves to moving forward, in a coordinated and dialogueal way, talking to the whole civil society, with associations, with collectives. A little bit about what is done in road safety campaigns, I think you can do security campaigns in many other countries: teach the population to analyze risks, view them, know what to do to avoid them or methods of communication and training. I believe that everything that has to do with communication and emergency formation is fundamental, and that can and must be advanced on this path. Another way, within prevention, would be to review compliance with the regulations and promote the development of protection plans for those centres that generate a potential risk for themselves. So, we've been focusing on this facet, working on the revision of special civil protection plans, participating in accident simulations, in external emergency plans, in plans to prevent the breaking of prey. In the coming year we will continue to do so, we will continue to review the Territorial Emergency Plan of Galicia, Platerga, implementing emergency plans in different companies in which it is required to do so and promoting above all — and this is another task of coordinating and raising awareness of municipal officials themselves — the development of municipal emergency plans. The obligation is that of the municipalities with more than 20,000 inhabitants. It means that, from now on, they're going from 50%, but not much, the municipalities that, being obliged to have this plan, they have, and that have reviewed and updated it. We should get to 100 percent. It's a legal obligation. If we don't get to this, it's very difficult to make other ideas. And, of course, we must continue to implement them in municipalities which, although they have no obligation, obviously have a huge advantage if they have their emergency plan in force and up-to-date. Today in Galicia there are 43 municipalities that have it, and I insist that there should be many more. And the third axis in prevention would continue to enhance the use of new technologies. Here you have to see a lot of the progress that is being made in R & D, because of course they have application in many fields, but in the field of emergencies it's essential, in intervention but also in prevention. We've all seen these days — and that's going to go further — the huge utility of drones in collaborating in the search for missing persons, but also in analyzing risks, in giving vision and analytical capacity reaching angles and reaching perspectives that up to now could not be reached. Also in the field of logistics and transport in emergencies I think the field is vast. We'll keep betting around, taking advantage of the pole and the bet that he made Junta in Lugo. And, of course, the involvement of Axega on this topic is being and is going to be fundamental, in addition to all the applications that have new technologies in emergency care management platforms, tracking emergency vehicles, easy, fast and secure communication between what is intervening in emergencies and the focal point, I think you can do a lot of things and of course we're going to try to do everything possible. So, ladies and gentlemen, I say, in summary, these are the proposals that the Galician Union wants to make in emergency matters. I wanted to start the appearance — I say it because I think we've wasted little time discussing who the competences are — saying that the competences are what the emergency law says they have to be. By applying them strictly, will we come to a solution that guarantees the safety of all the Greeks and the Greeks? Of course not. In the end, all administrations have to be involved, and the administrations that have more resources, also more responsibilities, the first ones. So, the Galician Union — I mean — has 60% of the emergency investment, the administration that, according to that law, would only have to do the coordination, that we are doing and we are going to continue to do it. What is more, we're going to increase the budget resources that the Galician Union devotes to emergencies, we're going to do it in a coordinated way in the proper organs, trying to avoid the political struggles and think that we're playing a lot. He said that emergencies don't understand administrative borders or the political colour of administrations, they only understand to be well-attended, well-planned, well-managed and well-supported. The Galician Union has a lot of hope that the work we can do, with concrete proposals, especially during the first half of 2018, will have its fruit. Already in the same year 2018, I insist, the Galician Union would have supported the budget to do so and I hope we can execute it. But since 2019 and so on, you have to complete the emergency map and, even with the improvements that will have to be done — logically this is always unfinished — to say that a Welshman, living where he lives, has really guaranteed professional attention in a specific response period, I think it would be a huge step and a great service, that at times at best to some — hence not to the Unity of Galicia or myself — may seem not so bright, because it seems not so well known, but that the day they need realize that the work that has been done, that the resources they have dedicated themselves and, above all, the political will that could be put on — which is what corresponds to us — renders, and always renders. So this was the reason for the appearance, this is the reason to make these suggestions. And what I hope is that we can move forward, and move forward quickly, leaving aside political differences. Of course we do, but I think in a series of things political differences make little sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u24	Thank you, Vice President. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u25	Good morning. Mr. Rueda, I have to say that I thought it was disappointing for you to intervene and very unnecessarily. Because you've come here to tell us a number of measures you've been announcing in recent months. And besides, it was disappointing because you did an exercise, we can say, Houdian, of escapism. He blames the others, it's the deputies and the municipalities. The Board does not assume its responsibilities. Look, it was you, besides, very little needed when you talked about the competitions. You began by saying that the issue of emergencies is not of autonomous competence or, in any case, not exclusively autonomous. In this second, we can give you some reason, but in the first, to say that emergencies are not autonomous competition, I think it's very serious to have a maximum responsibility for this matter, as you are. Because, moreover, I remind you that the law, in Title II, the Emergency Law — which, indeed, is of the year 2007, of the time of the Bipartite, because the Bipartite also made laws; in addition to other things that you blame, you also made laws, and advanced laws — clearly establishes the competences and the administrative organization. And in that title there are five chapters, and more than three refer to the responsibilities and competences of the Galician Union. So don't break the bulk and assume responsibilities. Then you did an exercise of inaccuracy, because you talked about 90 percent of the time of fire-related emergencies and rescue, that is, firefighters, fire parks, the map... and there's more emergencies than those. Emergency is much more than that. The law talks about many more questions. There are health emergencies, where there are also many lacks of territorial coverage. There are also isochrons that are not met, there are emergencies, for example, that have to do with maritime rescue. There are many more that must also be addressed, and you have made an intervention that is too limited to a part of the problem. You, moreover, come here to this appearance forced by a reality, which is that of the scrupulous and horrifying failure of the Greek emergency system. And I say "system" and not "model" because there really isn't a model, it's not a model, it can't be called a model. And that failure was clearly made manifest, in addition, because of the fire crisis of October 15. This crisis highlighted the shames, revealed the deficiencies in the operation of this system, in which it has the greatest and highest responsibilities for the Union of Galicia. Because the response to these kinds of crises is from the Junta, the Galaga Emergency Agency. For that we have an agency, precisely, that has this competition. And that reality, in addition, put out the staff working in emergencies in an unprecedented public presence in which the representatives of the 112 Emergency Service, the municipal and comarcas fire department, the brigadiers and forest agents described the situation as "disaggravating, improvising, disordinating and misappropriating resources." That is, there were resources, especially in the municipal fire parks, in the Coruña, in Lugo, in Ourense, in Santiago or in Pontevedra, that did not mobilize themselves or that, if mobilized, was on their own initiative of these parks, not on the initiative of Junta de Galicia. And, as I said, the ultimate responsibility is for the Axega and the General Emergency Management, which we also have a General Emergency and Civil Protection Directorate. That's why it's the competence of the Board and of you, Counselor. There were obvious operating failures that were reported by these collectives, also by mayors, by numbers of agents. One of the clearest examples was the collapse of the 112 Emergency Care Center itself, where you've been waiting for more than 20 minutes, aggravated in addition to that collapse by something also unusual, which was that the president of the Galician Council encouraged people to call, for any situation, on this phone. And he was also aggravated by the shortage of staff that day, with 6 workers in the morning and 14 in the afternoon in the face of a situation of really serious crisis that needed the maximum number of troops. Also because of the failures of the computer platform, which is a subject that is repeatedly denouncing the workers of this service, or because of the absence of a direct channel of communication of emergency operators. You spoke now that mayors would have a phone, but there are other services, many other services, which do not have a direct channel of communication, and are operational services of emergencies that do not have a direct channel of communication and have to wait for it to be free from line. So what happened was a screech, horrifying structural failure of the emergency system, coordinated, or not, disappointed, by the Galician board and the Galician Emergency Agency. And a proof of this, of the deterioration, of the mismanagement and failure of this system was, recently, also resignation or cessation, I don't know how to call it, of the manager of Axega, who also highlighted that situation. And the reality is, this isn't the first time that happens. It's repeated every time there's a disaster or an extraordinary accident, it repeats the same situation. It passed with the Prestige, it passed with English, it passed with Fandicosta. And we see that after these disasters, no action is taken. The same deficiencies, the same eves, the same deficiencies, the same inefficiencies. The purpose of the amendment was announced, but then the reality is that everything follows the same to the next catastrophe, in which the same signs and weaknesses are manifested again. Now you come to us with an ad, which has already been in the press these last few weeks, from reviewing the emergency map, from checking fire stations, from GHGs, etc., and so on. And this situation is something that is perfectly known, the lack of coverage, the lack of response in this particular area of emergencies, which is an area where we have been talking about this for nine years and you have not put the solutions or taken the necessary measures. And it turns out that now, as there was an incident in Tennessee in August and there were some furious criticisms of the mayor of Cerdedo-Cotobade — which is also a fancy council for you — who first pointed to the wrong direction but then pointed out that the responsibility was for the Union, or, in any case, of the county parks and the coordination of the Union, now you find that they are going to study this issue. It looks good, but it's been a long time since this happened and there's been no response from the board. Well, there are many more duties to do, Mr. Rueda. And the answer you give in the budgets is the decrease in expenditure. Expenditure on emergency budgets is low in 2018 compared to 2017. They'll say it was because in 2017 there were extraordinary expenses, but there are also extraordinary situations to be faced that justify an increase in budgets by the year 2018. The responsibilities that must be done are to advance to a real integrated emergency system. The current system is not an integrated emergency system, because it's an uncoordinated system, it's a system fragmented from a functional, competitive and operational point of view; it's a privatized system, both in the management of 112 and in the comarcas parks -- I don't blame Members alone -- and it's a system without operational integration in the same space as the new road building, so 8 million euros were spent there. When are you going to integrate into that single operating center, all the services, not only, as you announced now, the 061? When will they use emergency skills and legislation to integrate health emergencies, maritime rescue, 085, firefighters, security forces, etc.Is that what you're talking about? We need a single operating command, a qualified operating address that integrates the controls of the different emergency services. And that's something that's also implicitly recognized in the 2018 budget memory. But there are more duties than you haven't talked about in your intervention, Mr. Rueda. We have to develop the law and enforce the law, which has been pending in many respects since 2007 — 10 years ago. Look, the third additional provision says that "the Galician Union will push the necessary actions to homogenize within three years the benefits and conditions of work throughout the territory." He's not doing it. Within a year, the Galician Union will promote the development of a regulation on firefighters and volunteering. He's not doing it. Article 38 speaks of "recovery plans". They're not doing it. And we're seeing how there are many municipalities that still have the recovery of basic services and basic infrastructures pending because these plans have not been made. And I'm not talking about help, I'm talking about recovery plans under the law. The same applies in the case of the Territorial Emergency Plan, the Platerga, which is the year 2009, or the Special Forest Fire Plan, of which the latest update is the year 2015. And there's a lot of still pending issues: protection and self-protection plans, information to the population, actions of the security bodies -- look, you've announced here a number of information and protection measures, but that's already in the Platerga, they're already included in the Platerga's information actions, the warnings to the population, the actions of confinement, withdrawal and evacuation. By the way, it is also mentioned that, for each of these measures, the Directorate-General for Civil Protection, the competence of the Galician Union, will be drawn up by the Directorate-General for Civil Protection, a protocol for specific actions. And we missed a lot, in the emergencies of October 15th, these specific action plans; for example, in Nigeria, in Chandebrit, with the terrible consequences of this failed evacuation that took place in this parish of Pontevedra. And it seems to us now that, above all, with their collaboration, they want to give a prize to the state's security forces and bodies who acted in that area. [[Applause]] So, Mr. Wheela there are many things to do, there are many pending duties to really change the system and have a real integrated public system, coordinated with a single, effective and agile emergency control; a fundamental public service and a strategic issue for the protection of the population and for the security of the population. So we ask them to step up, work hard and coordinate and push, because it's their responsibility, a solution to this issue, not only what you talked about emergencies and rescue related to fire stations, but the whole set of emergencies and civil protection. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u26	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. I, as a preliminary and also my companion, commit myself as a member of the Party of the Socialists of Galicia to the state pact against gender violence, and promise to work for and to improve and enrich the same from both a collective and an individual point of view. [[Applause]] Mr. Vice-President, already entering your audience, would welcome this attendance, because we had in principle the illusion that an analysis had been made, from the very perspective of emergencies and civil protection, of what happened in a situation that we can call a catastrophe, such as the one that took place on 14 and 15 October. But I think it changed the focus precisely from this appearance and at no point came into this situation to analyze. It has done some analysis of some of the partial issues of Galicia's emergency and civil protection system, but it is really frustrating that in this House at this time there is no analysis, from the perspective of emergencies and civil protection, precisely of what happened on the 14th and 15th of last month. Because you really, since the Greek Government, in this wave of fires, besides trying to permanently blame others — with certain doses, often excessive, of prepotence — were not attacking and still not attacking precisely one of the most important facets of the event these two days of October. The question is always to what extent Galicia's emergency and civil protection system has been able to give an effective and comprehensive response — and I insist on the word "integral" — to this emergency, to this catastrophe. As I was saying in your audience, it's not about political colors, it's not about competences, so I don't know what comes to make a partial account of precisely the distribution of competences to local corporations by the Galician Emergency Act of 2007, when precisely the powers assigned by Galician Emergency Act itself are not taken into account. Article 11, since we are reading articles, points out in a powerful way that "the Council of the Union is the senior body for the direction and coordination of civil protection and emergency management of the Autonomous Community of Galicia". Article 12 clearly points out that, "while the senior executive and coordinating authority of the Union, the person holding the Presidency of the Union is responsible for exercising the sole command of intervention services in response to emergencies in the cases provided for in this law." And Article 13, to congratulate you, states as the person who holds the Council of the Galician Union that has assigned competence in the field of civil protection and emergency management — you, Mr Vice-President — is the body responsible for the policy of civil protection and emergency management in Galicia. I believe that the allocation of functions, competences and responsibilities by the legislation adopted in this House is clear. That's why you have to give, and it still has to give, in this House the answer to many questions and uncertainties arising from a questionable management of emergency devices during the 14th and 15th October. In spite of the fact that the three political groups in the opposition to this House called for the urgent appearance of the Director General for Emergency and Internal Affairs to account for the operation of the device during those two days, the Government of Greece did not consider it appropriate at any time to access that meeting, which had to be produced, in fact, on the basis of urgent questions raised in the last Commission 1a. Basically, the general director's response was that the device worked reasonably well and without lack of planning. Some questions we asked the manager, in the absence of sufficient answers, let's ask the counsellor again now. First, do you really consider that the emergency device was able to give an answer — including the word — integral during the October fire strike? Second, do you really consider that the level of fragmentation of the services mobilized to ensure an effective response was integral? Third, did you really operate the single command during this serious emergency? Did you properly operate the forest/urban fire interface during this emergency? Is activation of emergency levels correct? Do you really consider that the Galician Radio and Television Company fulfilled its reporting obligations that evening of the 15th? Why did the rescue and firefighting parks in some cities take more than 10 hours to be mobilized and, however, emergency services in Madrid were mobilized? Is it correct that there were 7 operators in room 112 during the morning of Sunday 15? Was there a proper technological integration of the 112 and 085 platforms? Mr Rueda, we trust that in the committee of study that has just been set up in this House to analyse precisely what happened in that wave of fires and to bet on changes in the forest area, a very important chapter is also devoted to Galicia's emergency and civil protection system, because many questions are still being asked and very few answers are being answered. Because, Counsellor, the occurrence of the October fires shows, at least, that the European model of comprehensive response is not functioning in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Decision 1313 of 2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council focuses on the importance of taking an integrated approach to emergency and disaster management. The Resolution of the European Parliament itself of 5 July 2011 on the universal service of the 112 emergency number, considers that this number created by Council decision as early as 1991 so that citizens can have access to all emergency services — firefighters, police and medical emergencies — should not be confused with other figures that national authorities can maintain. Our 2007 Emergency Act itself provides, among its general principles, the guarantee of an integrated system of civil protection and emergency, and it must be unified to channel the incidences and alerts that occur through the single European number 112. Do you think the profusion of emergency numbers — 112, 085, 061 and the announced telephone, now, of mayors — ensures that citizens always have clear to whom to call an alarm or a sinister? It will be a matter which I believe will have to be dealt with technically in these committees. But the other question that concerns us in a very special way is whether the levels of activation of emergency plans were right, and whether they were properly coordinated. They told us in this Commission 1st, through the Director-General, that they activated for several hours on 14 and 15 the Level 2 of the Peifogue, of the Special Civil Protection Plan against the emergence of forest fires in Galicia, with which the management of the plan solely corresponded to the territorial delegates of the Union. Didn't they ever consider it necessary to activate level 3? Why? Didn't the alarm situation seem sufficiently serious to you that Sunday, which was taking place in relation to people, goods and the urban impact of forest fires? Have you not considered the President of the Board, nor have you, sufficiently serious the emergency situation during those hours in Galicia? Because, according to Galician Emergency Act, you were and are responsible for the device. You didn't think at any time, neither you nor your advisors, that we were facing an emergency of interest from the Greek provided for in the Platerga itself? Because the initiative to activate that level is yours, Mr. Counsellor, under the direction of the plan, which is from Mr. President. Because, on the contrary, the Council of Ministers of the past Friday 10 did agree that the Autonomous Communities of Galicia and the Principality of Asturias were declared to be areas seriously affected by an emergency of civil protection. Even the government delegate himself, in an interview this weekend, remembered how 2,100 people had to be evicted, making 8,000 aid in difficult conditions, and many extremes, in this disaster situation. Mr Vice-President, you and Mr President may not have been aware of the circumstances on 14 and 15 October. The list of the 30 measures included in the proposal for a forest agreement which the President of the Board presented before this plenary in his past appearance only includes an emergency measure, precisely the single command for all emergency services. Why, if this obligation was already established in the 2007 Emergency Act itself? Or do they really know that they didn't act properly and now they have to present as a measure what was a failure? It signaled before the urban/forest fire interface — since it did not speak at all — did not work. A lot of orders, a lot of personnel, a lot of emergency technical directors, consider top priority not to review the emergency map but rather the model of rescue and extinguishing Galician fires. Forest firemen are not receiving the necessary training to be able to act in the urban area. The interaction between the two areas in fires lived and suffered on Sunday 15. Urban, regional and provincial parks respond to different performance protocols, to different management models. Fragmentation — as has been reported on many occasions — of both the public entities involved in the response — Together, Seaga, Tragsa and local entities — or of private management in various areas, cannot at any time guarantee that comprehensive response of extinction services under a single model. We have to walk not only towards a new emergency map, we have to walk towards a unique and public model of firefighting and rescue services with unique organizational and functional dependence. Other communities have established it, even the Community of Madrid, Valencia or the Basque Country. There are models where we can inspire ourselves to really bet on that new needed model. Unifying protocols, ensuring approved isochrons covering the whole territory — as I was saying — to stabilize many brigades, which rotate 3,000 workers each year, and carrying forward a comprehensive ongoing training programme are challenges that must be addressed for a key sector at critical times for the population. In addition, our parliamentary group has requested a report from the Galician Civil Protection Commission to assess the changes to be made in the Galician emergency and civil protection system because of the incidences, possible errors in command, communication and insufficient resources placed in manifests during the 14th and 15th days. And this report should focus on many of the issues we have announced: territorial coverage, risk analysis, service operation, operational coordination, resource inventory, programme of implementation and financing of the system. We sincerely hope...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u29	...that this time we can learn from the event and we can know the results of the report we request, which could well be integrated into the conclusions of the study commission that has been created. That is why, Counsellor, it is really disappointing that in this audience there has not been even the slightest allusion to a problem as serious as what Galicia suffered on 14 and 15 October from the perspective of emergencies and civil protection. They still do not perform any critical system revisions. I don't know if it's fear, impotence, or really, like many times, sovereignty or precisely prepotence. Will they continue and continue without taking any political responsibility for what has happened these days?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u30	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u31	Will they just continue to hold others responsible or will they continue to feed the story of the incendiary plots? Which, by the way, will have to wait for the judicial bodies to make a decision on it. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u32	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. Mr. Vice President, when are you going to take off the hairdresser suit? Don't you see the entrance isn't now? When will they cease to disguise their own incompetence in the management of the fire strike, first, through the manipulation of information, then, through the inability to manage the situation with the municipalities and now disguise it by means of a plan that apparently has nothing to do with the event on Black Sunday? Why don't they take away the disguise of their own incompetence and recognize what happened? Because only by recognizing the causes of what has happened can measures be taken that are effective for the future. Let that disguise that they have set up to try to manipulate public opinion, as they did on Sundays of black fires, as they did later, doing one of the causes, the only cause of the fires, and looking for solutions. But to begin with, let's do it by bringing here a rigorous analysis of which were the causes of these fires and what failed on their own devices. Because there were things that depended on you and they gave up, as a result of their incompetence, as a result of the abandonment to which they had subjected the whole emergency system, which failed. And that's why they're now presenting differentiated plans that involve an amendment to the whole of their previous emergency policy so that this doesn't happen again. But this is something that has failed and that is not due solely to the emergency system. You forget – even though you are also in your negotiation – information manipulation, which is also part of the management of an emergency. You preferred to manage public opinion instead of managing a catastrophe. They were able to help effectively, through a public service such as CRTVG, to contribute to the fact that the emergency was taken more easily by the affected population and they gave up doing so. They preferred to disguise themselves and preferred to disguise a reality that more than a million Greeks and Greeks saw directly through their windows, or that they saw it in the streets or at the foot of their houses. And this, therefore, prevents us, and prevents you, from doing a rigorous analysis of what happened and therefore confront with all the consequences of the wave of fires. People felt abandoned by their incompetence, by the incompetence of the Galician Union on the worst night of our country's recent history. And the emergency service failed what you came to talk about today. First of all, because of recklessness, because of political civil protection orders which, for example, did not prohibit or did not suspend the hunting day that began that weekend. Nor did they suspend the possibility that the hikers were on the mountain, which could cause a real catastrophe. They did not mobilize — you do not refer here in any case — all available material resources, we have already denounced it on several occasions. You haven't said anything about this now. He meant it, but for something else, not what we're dealing with. Not all available troops were mobilized; for example, in the fire department parks, the ones he spoke about. As a result, only in the province of Lugo do we no longer have six nodrices, which had the opportunity to assume more means of reinforcement in the extinction of the fires. They lacked material means of citizen protection, despite the fact that municipal and civil protection groups did everything they could and put everything on their side. They were disappointed, because the only operational emergency command was missing, something that gave rise to that contradiction that, on the one hand, they say it exists, and on the other hand, they say they're going to put it down, they announce it as one of the 30 measures of the other day of the Feijóo Government — but, of course, you haven't mentioned it either in any case. And they lacked material means to support that action by these municipal groups, they lacked masks so that the people could defend themselves from the fire, they lacked batalums, everything was missing. The evacuation protocols have not been activated, nor have you explained here why that happened. Why didn't the Peifoga protocols activate? They didn't activate for a simple reason: because there was no coordination command. And less bad than you when you read the law, you recognize that at least the supreme coordination of commands, and therefore that single command, should belong to the Council of Galicia effectively on the weekend of the fires. And yet it was not. And this has helped to put a greater risk or significantly increase the risk of fires alone. It's a mismanagement of the resources available by your advisor, of which you are responsible, without you coming here to make a single mention of that spooky failure that I assumed your incompetence. The absence of this single emergency command has resulted in greater ineffectiveness of available resources, the inability to coordinate urban controls with rural extinction controls, the inability to coordinately manage services and available areas. Is it acceptable for these emergency controls to act like this, uncouthly? Is it not possible to directly acknowledge this existence of disunity and to assume political responsibilities or to make others assume them? Were you the direct responsible for this disappointment or was you Mr. Minor? Who did it well or did it wrong? And if he did it wrong, should he continue at his post? We say it at the time: no, political responsibilities must be assumed. There has been a collapse of the information and emergency services. The 112 and 085 telephone services have been collapsed all Sunday afternoon, all Sunday afternoon! There was a lack of state security forces and bodies also to regulate road traffic, there were no means to regulate that traffic, to order people out of the nucleus. There was no protocolization of a rational evacuation of the nuclei that were threatened. There were no material means, there were no security forces that could handle this. Do you still think that the single command worked well as it worked so far, that is, in paper and without direct existence in reality? Then you decided to disguise reality, first of all, during the day itself by means of the information manipulation that I submitted to a CRTVG which, as a public service, should be teaching people how to do in case the fire approached their homes, such as establishing security measures to close inside them, saying where there were cut roads, where it could be evacuated, where there were urban parks or where the fire entered the cities. And none of this they did, they preferred to manipulate and disguise normally what everyone saw, and everyone perceived for all their senses: by smoke, by fire, by the emergency they saw in the rest of the neighbors because something happened, or by the rest of the media that didn't have the public service obligation that CRTVG had, which also depends on you, and they didn't. They preferred to disguise the causes as well in the days ahead, attributeing them to an incendiary terrorism that seems to you to be erecting a single case of the fires that were unleashed. That's right, from the plot investigation today, we haven't heard anything, either, despite the fact that it also depends on your own department. Incendiary plot, yes; but research without means. On the other day, the president of the board realized within his own measures of the creation of research brigades that reproduce some that already existed almost ten years ago, and of those that you did not realize on the occasion of the budgets. But don't worry that In Marea does contain effective amendments in that sense for the creation of that body. And all of this despite the fact that it is also part of its own negotiation. We must not forget also that you had so far, and they have, bodies that have judicial police functions and, therefore, to investigate and assist judges and courts in investigating these functions; and also the prosecutor's office, which specializes in the environment. Management in later days was not much better, because it was not said to be the same as catastrophic. The abandonment that the municipalities suffered by the Council of Galicia was not limited to the lack of uncoordinated means at the very moment when you managed the wave of fires but in later days. You came to the province of Lugo, to Cervantes, to announce the opening of an office that was only open for a week; in hours, by the way, where people are in the labors of gain and cannot attend, and besides, with informational functions only and where no administrative record could be initiated. And besides, without such a change in those requirements in order to be able to access the aid, in some cases, that make them absolutely insumable. Apart from a period of aid that is absolutely ridiculous. Beyond the fire, beyond that weekend, what we've seen and what you've come to recognise here implicitly, disguise as normal what it isn't, is that we lack a unified and effective public emergency system capable of addressing situations that can happen again in our country. We need to end up with a deregulated and segregated system, we need to develop an Emergency Law, which, since the year 2007, has many sections that are completely intact from that moment on, those that you realize through your reading, but which you know well enough that they have not so far had a correlation in relation to the development of the powers of the Council of Galicia. There is also a desire that every council, parliament, including the Union, should create different bodies to provide fire prevention, defence and extinction services. Only in relation to the fires can we count public firefighters in municipalities of more than 1,000 inhabitants, private districts, municipal emergency groups, joint squads, municipal forest brigades, Seaga brigades, Tragsa brigades, Civil Protection... that is, a series of atomized media as a result of their inability to unitarily articulate a whole operation that should have in the single command a reference. And it doesn't have it, despite the fact that Platerga, Infoga, Pladiga, Peifoga and the Emergency Act establish the necessary collaboration and the necessary coordination through a single command, which, as you read at the beginning of the appearance, is its function. So it was their abandonment, it was their abandonment, it was their incompetence, it was their inability to do so, which prevented us from having adequate coordination of all available services. There are more laws that are not complied with — he did not refer to them — Law 3/2007 on prevention and defence against the forest fires in Galicia is not complied with. You didn't speak, either, or simply made a tangential reference, to the firefighting service of the comarcas parks, which is done through the privatization of the service. General interest and business are sometimes bad allies, because they don't seek business to protect general interest but to protect their own particular interest. Emergencies require a single command and the coordination of all bodies, and in that we seem to agree and assume it implicitly, even if they disguise their lack of responsibility. There is a need to fight the atomization and privatization of these services. A matter of public interest cannot be linked to private interests. It is necessary to commit ourselves by the institutions to the collective firefighters. And that's why we don't understand your nominal assertion that if you're going to deal with the pay balance and the recovery for the public of the privatized parks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u35	...when they haven't really put the means up to now, even though other administrations have already done so since the past course. The catalogue of emergency resources, so far existing only on the paper, it is necessary to put it forward, it is necessary to bring forward the only operational command, it is necessary to invest in forest fires research, unlike what you have done, it is necessary to refer to those measures announced by the President of the Board of Governors of whom you have not realized, and it is necessary, above all, that all this can be spoken briefly and peacefully in a national pact by the territory. Our country's emergency management system must be part of that study commission in which all of us have to approach, and we all understand that it can be significant to improve the management of our own fires.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u36	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u37	I'm leaving for the next turn a series of proposals that, like In Marea, we have to make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u38	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vice-President, first of all, I would like to thank your voluntary presence for talking about emergency management. I thank you, Mr. Vice-President, for your constructive and proactive tone, recognizing that Galicia has made a great deal of progress in the field of emergencies, not only with the People's Party governments, but also with you here in recognition of the Bipartisan Government, when there was also a wave of very important fires in Galicia, and in the edition of emergencies, despite that, some progress has also been made. So I think, if that's the tone, we should all be constructive and not listen to some of the things we just heard here. And you come, Mr. Vice-President, here with serious and concrete proposals. Someone said none. I heard at least three blocks of proposals. On the one hand, the elimination of the dark areas of the emergency map in two areas, in the search for fire stations and in the creation of new services for emergency care in the deficit areas of the same. Second, action on emergency care groups by determining the firefighter management model, reviewing funding, competences and approval of GHGs and in the field of civil protection volunteers. And thirdly, boosting the new road coordination centre. Those who said there were no proposals, I think they weren't in this room or, at least, were absent from thought. Or it might also be that they had brought their intervention in writing and did not care what Mr. Vice President had said, because they came with their speech and no one would change that intervention. Certainly, Mr Vice-President, Junta makes an effort to finance emergencies, because it is true that they fall within the competence of Members and Councils. Yes, Mr Bará, yes, because you well know that for municipalities that are not more than 20,000 inhabitants it must be the deputies who act. And you, who vice president of the Pontevedra Parliament, should tell Mrs. Maria Carmen Silva that she stands before the Deputy and assumes her powers, that she is not abdicating all the time in the hands of the board. Because, among other things, this fire strike has been very important and has affected many municipalities in the province of Pontevedra, and something will have to do the deputation and something will have to do the Town Councils. It cannot be that the Union, which has powers in the field of forest policy, is responsible for all the evils that happen throughout Galicia. No, each with his own responsibilities. And I think that's the only way, recognizing each one's competences, we're going to solve some of the problems we have. Because I remind you that Mr. President of the Crown Parliament, who has appeared in this House a few days ago to account for his budgets — others and others have not had the courage to do so — acknowledged in this House the work he has done for the Emergency Board and acknowledged the work and collaboration of the Galician Council with the Emergency Councils and with regard to fire extinction. And why do you recognize him? Because you know that Parliament also has powers and that, without the invaluable collaboration of the Galician Union, the work that has been carried out since the deputies could not be carried out. The Vice-President has also been very clear about this on many occasions in this House. And you've said that if the model you're proposing now is a direct management model, Junta is willing to continue funding emergency services always and when the cost doesn't increase. But not only does Mr. Vice-President of Galicia say it is that his colleague of the Pontevedra corporation and Vice-President of the Pontevedra Parliament also said the same thing: that whenever the costs are not increased, it will also be valued... No, no, it's in the hemerothecary, Mr Bará, it's in the hemerothecary. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not making anything up. He said exactly that if the costs didn't increase, they'd go for direct management. What's wrong? That you in the election campaign, as everything is good and as you rally everything is worth it and they bear everything, because, of course, they tell the firefighters, to have them happy, that we're not going to direct management. Tell firefighters what's going to happen with their jobs, because it's a fraud of law to pass a worker from a private company to a public company without going through a process of public selection, transparent, competitive competition and equal conditions and opportunities that other citizens want to introduce themselves. Mr. Bará, that's what you don't tell the firemen, that's what they don't tell them, because maybe some of them don't have a job, and the rally doesn't work as well when they say these things. One thing is talking when you're in opposition and another when you're in government, right, Mr Bará? Just like the Lord of the Tides of Podemos, who are also in the Deputy of the Crown and are also saying that of direct management. Hey! Do it, do it! Why don't they do it in Coruña? Why don't they? Why don't they do it in the Crown Deputy? See, it's always Join's fault and it's always PP's fault. No, it's not a popular party whim. The 2007 Emergency Act, which includes both types of direct and indirect management, is their work, not the People's Party's work. Stop saying that privatization is the People's Party's business. No, ladies and gentlemen, privatization, if you call indirect management privatization, it's from all administrations of all political colors. Because all those who are sitting there belong, belong, or, in some cases, have mayors and mayors who are in administrations that subcontract services, or don't they? Aren't there any companies in any of the councils you're in? Mr. Bará, have you hired no company at...? Oh, of course, so privatize! In the Town Hall of Santiago we already know that they privatize up to participatory budgets, privatize democracy, privatize everything. But no, the big privatizers are those of the PP. Look, that speech is no longer silent in citizenship, because citizenship is smarter than you... you have people for fools, and people are not stupid. Citizenship knows perfectly well who it is who and what it is that they do. Look, Mr. Vice President, you came here with proposals. And I've only heard some reflections that could change on proposals by Mr. Díaz. Then he came here with a destructive speech, of criticism, absolutely criticism, Mr Bará, with zero proposals. And Mr. Villares what he did was to put bile through that mouth, as usual in it, and describe the apocalypse. He came with Tomás' suit, Tomás de Torquemada, Mr. Villares. Today you put on Tomás de Torquemada, the great inquisitor. Look, no, you're wrong many times on stage. You came here today to describe a situation that everything is very bad, that everything worked wrong... Look, neither are we so bad nor are you so good, Mr. Villares. So, please, and if you have any proposals, I invite you to do them, because that's what this is about. Look, the president of the board, when he came here on November 7, said there are three spaces where we can reach agreements on extinction, fire prevention and forest policy. One, in the Law of Measures, which we discussed yesterday for the first time in this House, where we can reach agreements and we can have some consensus to put in place forest policies in the short term to reach conditions at the time of maximum risk, which is summer. Another, at the presence of the vice president today. Make proposals in a positive way. How much does it cost them to make positive proposals? Or don't they have them? So if you have them, tell them here, tell them here, which is where we have to debate them. And also in the study committee. Because, of course, Mr. Díaz also said, "He didn't say anything, everything he said has already gone out in the press." Man, it's just that, Mr. Díaz, of course we're not going to invent anything! You're not going to make it up either. I suppose the Socialist Party's proposals will not be so innovative that we've never heard of them. And of course you have to talk about things you've already talked about. But if I don't say it in the House, it's a sovereign because it doesn't bring proposals and it doesn't say them in the House and if it tells us about them in the media. If you tell them in the House, of course, you come here to tell us what you've already said in the media. Man, be serious, please, be serious. When the vice president comes to the Chamber, he's telling the Legislature of the things the Executive is doing. Or have we forgotten the separation of powers? Or have we forgotten that the Government has to appear in this House and give this to Members and Members? If he doesn't, it's bad; and if he does, it's bad too. Well, agree and tell us what to do. And we all have to be responsible, everyone, from the public servers we're in politics to the public servers that are in the brigades, those that are in 112. It was said here today that 112 was collapsed. Look, 112 gets an average of 5,000 calls on a weekend, about 2,500 a day. That weekend you received 12,000 calls, most of them on Sunday afternoon. It's impossible, not feasible, that 100 calls per minute are answered, that there's no kind of collapse. Hadn't there been a collapse in Asturias, which also had a fire strike? It wasn't as important as ours, but they also had it. We multiplied 150% in 112 the staff to attend; in Asturias, 60%. What's the matter, that there wasn't a crash of calls when it was 11M in Madrid? What's the matter, that there wasn't a collapse of calls when the floods of Valencia went? But what country do you live in? Is it PP's fault? No, look, it's just, unfortunately, when there's an eventuality of this caliber, of course the services are collapsed. And they're not collapsing because the president of the board says we have to call 112. That's where we could be! I believe that citizenship is sufficiently prepared to know -- others know they don't know, but citizenship knows perfectly well -- that 112 is the number of emergency calls, and logically they call regardless of whether the president of the board says it's the number of emergency calls. And I'm saying this because, look, while Galicia was still burning, as the families watched their dead, you gave them to the school doors on Monday. Monday, Monday, my son at the school door. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you guys on Monday afternoon were behind the signs, behind the signs. [[Murmurs.]] That's your proposal. What's your proposal? Criticizing Join, criticizing PP. No, look, our proposal do you know what it is? Solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. Could it have been in the system? Sure. Can we get them better? Sure, with your help or without your help. We're usually already used to not having your help. Unfortunately, it usually happens, ladies. It often happens that the PP is all alone and with criticism, with the bile and the apocalypse that you describe day by day. But we're used to it, gentlemen. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Bará said there are many things left to do and many duties to do. I'm looking for proposals, Mr. Bará! Say some. Oh, no! Of course!, he said, "We ask them to get dizzy," said Mr. Bará, "We ask them to get dizzy, ask them to worry and ask them to take responsibility." You're a concierge in a county too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u40	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u41	What's the matter? Town Councils don't have powers, Mr. Bará? What's the matter, the Deputy of Pontevedra doesn't have any competences either? And Mrs. Maria Carmen Silva has nothing to do in this matter? Are you abdicating your responsibilities?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u42	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u43	Let's see! I know, Mr. Abel, that they won't let him speak, but I don't blame him. It's your group's business.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u45	I know that if they don't let him, it's not my fault they won't let him speak in their group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u46	Quiet. Finish it, Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u47	Yeah, yeah, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u48	No, it's over now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u49	Same respect as...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u50	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u51	I understand it's difficult sometimes to listen when one doesn't let him speak. Look, just like the brigadiests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u53	...which they put behind this sign on October 13th, on Friday. I spoke the other day here from Mr. Peter Brea, but it's that Mr. Peter Brea, who is a chief of staff, responsible, representative of the IGC-services, on October 13 in the morning he was in front of this placard at the General Montes Directorate asking for more staff because there would be a disgrace...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u54	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u55	...if the wind didn't stop.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u56	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u57	And this gentleman in the afternoon...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Prado, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u59	...called them to join the device and didn't enter it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u61	I ask for responsibilities for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Your time is up, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u63	Also for public servants. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u64	Thank you. Replica by the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, of the Tide-Power and of the Socialist Party, especially of the Tides of Podemos and of the BNG, because it must be acknowledged that Mr Díaz Villoslada — I at least understood it — some constructive proposal, some kind of hand — at least I understood it, I hope I understood it well — if I had. But in general, I ask a question here: when we have the working group within a week, precisely to coordinate emergencies, for it to work better, so when any sort of very serious or less serious event occurs, but in the end all are serious if they affect people's life and integrity, what do I have to say if I want to say what you moved me here? Because in the end it was what I tried to transmit: it is that the proposals are made by the technicians, but the ultimate responsibility lies with the politicians, with the ones we have responsibilities, or with the parliamentary groups or with the administrations, with much more executive administrations at least, but there will be political consensus, especially when we are talking about involving administrations of all colors. What do I have to say? That what they say to me here about everything they have proposed are things — the softest — known, as Mr. Bara says, things that have already read them or have they been pointed out in the media? What am I to tell you here?, if that was already in the press, you've heard of it, it was nothing new; it was so not new that in interventions of a quarter an hour—it seems to me they had—not a minute, nothing; it's the same, it gives them exactly the same. What do you need to talk about in the future to better coordinate emergencies? Not a minute. They don't care exactly. It doesn't seem to you that this should have any attention, because it doesn't serve what they came here for, for that of escapism, that of houdinism, all that I had written, I had said what I had said. Why are we going to talk about the future? So why don't we talk about getting better if that doesn't interest us, if it doesn't produce wear, if it doesn't give them political bills? Why are we going to talk about all this? Well, look, I'm going to talk the same way, and I'm going to tell you that I'm very sorry, but that that matter didn't interest you, that I hope you're interested if you have to do it, to see if there are more responsible people in your parties. That here some people are fighting politics, also with emergencies, nothing more. Well, I hope I'm more lucky with those who really had to execute things than this message, that that's not the criterion of acting. I am not surprised after Mr. Rodríguez — who is not now — laughs at me when I say, "No, there may still be a small part of the operation that remains uncovered." That's it. But how are you going to leave everything uncovered? But if I talked about covering 95 percent and they didn't give him a minute. But they care about all this! What a pity, really, what a pity, truly! Look, they told me we weren't able, that it was a disaster all 15th and 16th. I have no problem talking about the 15th and the 16th. I came to talk about the future, of course, by analyzing it — I said in my speech — seeing what happened in those days, too much reason to act and act as soon as possible. That we had to act all before? Of course, but we'll always be on time. And I didn't say we didn't have any competences, Mr. Bará, in matters of emergency. So what do I do here? Now, I have the powers I have, I have the powers I'm asked for. By the way, you are a concelebrant at the Pontevedra Council, affected by some proposals I made here: no word. But to me the mayors at the Fegamp ask me to talk about these issues, and before I talk to them, I think it's a symptom of respect and a symptom of intelligence — that I thought — because I had to take the back on things we should all agree on, and that's why I saw them tell them here. And those are the emergencies I have to talk about. But they weren't interested in anything at all. And of the 15th and the 16th, of course, we learned things. Of course, from any unfortunate event — since 15th and 16th was — we have to have consequences, and of course we all have to improve, and each one within his own responsibility. And I continue to say what the law says, which is very soft—for that reason the laws are made—that the responsibility of ensuring emergency provision in the councils is of the deputies, and in the large councils of the big councils, and the board will have to coordinate the benefits that others have put before it, it does not have to put them out again, that we are doing so, because if they are not put. But it is that these are the competences and, therefore, I come here to exercise the powers of the Council of Galicia, with all responsibility and with all the constructive spirit, which I see that you have not been able to have. They say it was all a disaster, with regard to emergency care; everything, of course, was the fault of the Galician Union. If the Galician Union had everything right, nothing would have happened at all, practically, on the day of the fires. That's what makes anyone listening to you want to do an abstraction exercise, which I know is very difficult. Look: "It gives me the feeling that yesterday was unstoppable. Factors were combined against which the most advanced societies could do virtually nothing. In Galicia we have a good extinction service. Man is not always able to control fires, neither with technical advances nor with large budgets, neither in Galicia, California, nor Australia. Sometimes it's an impossible risk to contain." That's what the Galician Environment Attorney said, right. There are times when situations become very difficult. And of course, coordination is always better, of course, that the powers we have to exercise each other are better. But that's what you say that everything was because the Galician Union has failed sharply, when you in your powers have exercised them perfectly, and it was a perfectly controlable event, it's an absolute lie, and I have to say it here, and as long as we don't realize that things are like this, we're not going to improve anything at all, Mr. Bará. So, let's put all the batteries, all of them. Of course the Galician Union put them on. You're going to put them on, too? Were you going to put them in Pontevedra Town Hall? You're a conciliator, governor. I'm telling you, when you get out here, you'll tell me what you want here, of course, but so do I. So I say, will the Pontevedra Town Hall comarcalyize the fire department? I made a proposal here, you didn't say anything at all. Hey! The mayor's always asking for it, and it's unnecessary. And the mayor of Sardinia-Cotobade could say that Junta could act better, but he also put them to you fine, with reason, because they told him that, as there was no danger to human lives, you didn't go out, and that's it, and he could already burn and what it was. That's what happened, Mr Bará, and that's what we have to try to avoid. So are you willing to avoid it? We do. I hope you too, and fast. It will cost you money; you, no; to us, yes; to the deputy of Pontevedra, neither. You rule in the Deputy of Pontevedra. I know you are not a Member of the Parliament of Pontevedra, but it is Mr Mosquera. Didn't you talk about it? Can't you tell me here if we're really going to be able to do it, if all these proclamations that they make are really going to be able to become something concrete? So we have to talk about it now to deal with emergencies, that's really important, to analyze what happened, now and in all episodes, of course, in October and in all previous, and unfortunately in the future, so that it takes us better prepared, that we can say that all we could do is start. That was this show, Mr Bará, and not anything else, really. That's why it's a little disappointing, or very disappointing. You tell me about the privatized system. Mrs. Prado has already told you: like those you have in Pontevedra Town Hall. Or what? That there are good privatizations and bad privatizations? If this doesn't suit you, we've been waiting for you to return it for two years, we've said there's no problem, Deputy of Pontevedra. Now tell us we have to wait until I know how many years. And why? Let's do it as soon as possible. Hey, if you proposed it, it's because you thought it could be done. Or does the President of the Parliament have to come here and say that he wants to change the system, but then he says, "No, that's for a few years"? And he said one thing to the firefighters, another thing to us or me and finally not to tell the truth to each other. That's what's happening with the privatization of firemen. That goes through all the parks, not just the Pontevedra parks. Tell me I announced the 112 emergency systems were going to be unified. Yes, yes, the police and the Civil Guard are going early in the year, and I hope the firefighters go. Will you allow a fireman in Pontevedra to be on shift at CIAE 112 to meet the firefighter's emergencies? I understand that yes, I thank you very much, I hope the rest do the same, and that when we ask you to cooperate, and indeed, for the common good and for the management of emergencies, you provide your means. Or is it going to be everything of the Galician Union? And there I have nothing to say again. A lot of criticism, but when they also have to take a step in the exercise of their powers, they're not going to do anything. We're going to ask for personnel, just as we asked the National Police, just as we asked the Civil Guard. We wait for your answer and we'll see if those commitments and those promises to do everything in his part are true or not true. Tell me also about the plans for recuperation of the municipalities after the disasters, which are in the law. Yes, yes, that's why we took the help out; the 30th is over. By the way, there are a lot of requests for municipalities to repair municipal damage. And I'm not talking about the private ones, who are being treated today exclusively by the Galician Council, and I hope that also by the state, after the help you've taken. Of the deputies, because we followed those who had to, because they were especially damaged. The House of Ourense has already said that yes, without any problem, and the Parliament of Pontevedra has done that thing of birlibirloque where in the end he has done absolutely nothing. We will address the Members with this quantification of damage that is happening to us through the Fegamp, to see what Members can do, to see if they're taking a hand, to see if that willingness to participate in the recovery of municipal goods, especially small councils, is true or not true; and there are too few days left to know that, Mr Bará. So I'm telling you, I'd like you to tell me that we're really going to be able to do comarcallization; that's more, if we can start with Pontevedra. The Town Hall of Santiago, well, I already have, we've started to be constructive. I'm grateful, in the minutes you have after, that we can draw some conclusions already and that I can't get there to that commission and say that I have no idea what the Pontevedra Town Hall is going to do, because whoever could say so or at least suggest it didn't say anything at all. Then I appreciate it if it's going to be concrete. Mr. Villoslada, I say thank you for your constructive tone, which I understand. Indeed, not only in the committee that will be set up in Parliament, but also in that working group set up within the Galician Civil Protection Commission, can many proposals be made; look! it's time to do them here; nobody has the absolute truth. Now, we're going to have to start making proposals to look forward, because if everything is to criticize, it's all to say that the blame is always on the Galician Union and that these powers that are attached to the laws actually don't paint anything, because coordination has to take everything, they're Greek powers, we can't agree. But, if there's really something else, that's the place, we have to move forward very fast. But they also have to tell the Deputies, who are approving their budgets; that of the Coruña we know him, that of Pontevedra and that of Lugo because they decided they didn't have to count here; perhaps one of the reasons was because they have nothing in their emergency budgets, to meet the new proposals; I hope it wasn't one of the reasons and I hope that, when they have to approve the budgets, there are the amounts. And we're talking about that the Galician Union has almost two million euros plus -- someone said around here that it had lowered the emergency budget -- two million euros plus, to meet the comarcacalization and wage equality of firefighters. I hope that it will also be done by the Members, who have to do it, which is the four of them, to make those proposals. So Ourense and Coruña's have already come to tell us; the other two perhaps that was the reason they hadn't. Tell me they didn't mobilize the cities. Listen! If you like, I remind you: the mayor of Vigo in the morning — that Mr. Losada doesn't get nervous — saying that no one asked the firefighters and in the afternoon asking UME. The Vigo firemen mobilized in the morning--for if he does not get nervous, I thank him very much; I thought so, because he always does; but look, okay; for then, Mr. Villoslada, only goes for you. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] The mayor of Vigo in the morning took a note saying that Vigo firemen were acting in Mos, in the Ponteareas area, that no one had asked them — that is, they didn't tell him — and in the afternoon he was asking him to send everything he had. Do you realize, with this, that there has to be some coordination and less demagogy, especially at important times, and try to get everyone right? All the cities were mobilized. Of course there was a coordination to move firefighters from the parks. Look, what can't be done either, as Mr. Villares said about the nodrices of Lugo, if you want us to bring all the nodrices from Lugo to Pontevedra in case you're producing a fire and we leave Lugo without any nodride for the fires of Lugo. Is that what we had to do? Is that what you told him, what you're telling him, what you have to say about Lugo parks? I don't think I told him that. Well, if you're saying that, it's a huge responsibility. We leave Lugo without any means, we bring them all to Pontevedra. Hey, those of Pontevedra who are delighted, but those of Lugo don't know how they would feel. So think a little bit about the things you say before you try to make a sentence to draw political recede and nothing else, because in emergencies you have to be especially objective. Tell me, too, Mr. Villoslada of unification — if I understand correctly — of all emergency phones, also of the 061. Are you in favor? I'm very glad, because this is a subject to be raised, it's a very delicate subject. If at least the Socialist Party agrees, there is already a political party position on the integration of all numbers. It's good to know, if that's what he said. And then, with respect to the mayor's phone, hey, it's not a different phone, it's 112, they call 112, but 112 pulls them out because they have the numbers that the mayors themselves gave him, it's not a phone anymore. I suppose you either didn't understand well or I didn't explain well, and I don't have a problem with doing it again, but it's not a different phone. And of course also, the means of emergency are going to have a channel of their own. In fact, it's necessary that they don't have the same channel that citizens have when they call 112 and they're going to have it too, and they're in conversation for that, partly because some of you have suggested it -- I think Mr Bará. Ask me why we don't activate Level 3. Listen, because the levels that activate them and those that decide them are the technicians, and the politicians will have, in the part that affects us — because we are also administrative responsible and, therefore, we have the capacity and responsibility and the obligation to activate the means of administration — we will have to run those levels when they are activated. But going from one level to another if you think it's political decisions in the middle of an emergency, and more like an emergency like the one that happened on 15th and 16th, if this works simply by political decisions and you don't consult technicians and you don't consider objective circumstances and the means that there are to mobilize and can be mobilized, and you think it's just a political decision, it doesn't understand anything; then I'm not surprised that you say the things you say; because you said that I had the responsibility to activate one level or activate another, and that there was evacuated. Look, level 2 is to evacuate, Mr Villoslada, and if you read it — and I'm sure you read it — what the situation consists of every time you activate a level, tell you that level 2, which is already a bad enough level, is precisely to make evacuations. And so, if we don't go from one level to another -- which we're also talking about Infoga, not Platerga -- then you'll have to see that levels can be evacuated or not, it's because the technicians say when it comes and when it doesn't, and then those who stand in front of the devices, which are administrative and political, will have to run what the technicians tell you. Tell me that the Council of Ministers agreed to declare Galicia as an emergency zone as an argument to say that we were wrong not to declare level 3. Hey, it's all you need to be able to help. And that we have already done so before, a week earlier — we are waiting for some Members to do so — but the Galician Council has also stated in Galicia — I do not remember the number exactly now — around 140 municipalities especially affected by emergency situations, which stems from the need for assistance. We did exactly what he did. But that doesn't have to do with levels. The levels, the declaration, the circumstances and the convenience appreciate the technicians who are in the emergencies, the technicians who were there at the advanced command stations, those who had to mobilize resources in such a difficult situation as the environment prosecutor described earlier that the situation was uncontrollable, either in Australia, California or Galicia. And that's why. The public emergency model. It's over. I say the same thing again: we've been waiting for two years for the park management system to be decided, and if that's what it is -- because I don't know if it's what I understand here -- everything can be talked about, so I thank you for your constructive tone and for taking the proposals there. If what we're talking about here is to assign to a single administration all emergency bodies to manage all emergencies, that's a model that exists in some autonomous communities. I agree. But that means a budgetary waiver of many public resources from other administrations, transferring those resources and there's that ability to unify, because there's already a single command in this kind of emergency; another thing is that bodies are not unique, that's true and we all know it. But if we agree that it's a single body, hey! it's okay. But I suppose you, when you propose this, have already spoken to the administrations that govern or the Government of the Socialist Party and also to its partners, that this will be very difficult even, more difficult yet, and more attentive to you in some of those administrations, and that they tell you that there is no problem in transferring to us the vast amount of resources that would be needed. Look, if that's the case, everything can be talked about, and it's all settled in Galician Union. But we're talking about economic transfers. Is there something ahead? I suppose so; if not, you wouldn't put it here, and if there isn't, look! for you start to think about it and take it to that group that we've formed and everything can be talked about. Mr. Villares, the truth is, you had the joke of the written day, you called me "pelier", you came here, at last, you always have that lack of original respect in order to be able to seize yourself and give yourself some security in your intervention; I suppose you'll go there from then on start on plan to destroyer, so much so that you've had to say that you'll finally make proposals in your last intervention. Look, I wait for them, because I made them from the beginning, from the beginning. And you have responsibilities of government or co-government in many administrations, starting with parks, which are asking for comarcaalization. And I want to ask you the same answer again: if you are capable — I have my doubts, I say it with all respect but with all sincerity — that you can influence something, for example, the mayor of Santiago and some other mayor, hey!, let's move on in comarcacalization, see if we're able. See if in that second part he says to me, "Don't worry, that I comarcalization I think it's necessary and I'll do what's in my hand, if there's something in my hand to be able to move forward"; or on the other hand, "I don't like it or I can't do anything." Because in the first place, I have to tell you that, apart from telling me those things like I had to take all the means of Lugo to take them somewhere else -- I say, very well in the other provinces -- it's less bad that there are technicians in charge of emergency devices, and so it's what they say. If there were politicians — and politicians like you — I suppose they would make such decisions. But there was a single command; I say: there was a single command, and therefore that one command was what made the decisions. Tell me we want to ignore all this, we don't want to give him any importance. Hey! I had eight appearances — I'm talking about myself because it's the situation I know best — between 2 p.m. and 12 p.m., eight public appearances warning of how the situation was, recognizing its cruelty and trying to give all the information that was transmitted to me by the technicians. But if you, of course, come into that story, because if it happens to you that we didn't want to give him any importance and that we were going through everything and that we wanted to give that impression of normality from the Government and also from the public. By the way, several of those shows were in the Greek media. You also say there has to be a single emergency care unit. Well, I'm telling you the same thing. Look, if you're willing to make those budget transfers, let's start talking too, let's start talking as soon as possible. And then the usual one, in that style that you have, those private business innuendos -- the interests in the county parks. Hey! do your best, if you have any influence, which I think you don't, but do your best to get those who have to take steps forward in the administrations where you have something to say to reverse the direct indirect management system that they do as soon as possible. Two years waiting, two years telling the firefighters stories, telling us stories and finally not doing anything. That is the wage balance, which you — you said — that Lugo's deputy has been planning since last year. And why didn't he pay them? Do you think the Lugo Deputy can't give them the part that the firefighters decided because he doesn't give it to the Galician Board? I could have done it from the very first moment. Another thing is that he put it there and with the excuse that the Council of Galicia is still looking at it, as they said, because then they don't do anything at all. Tell them to pay them now, we have the money to do it now. But first we define the emergency management model. If you're so interested -- we're certainly -- in the pay balance, take steps as soon as possible to decide on the management model and start by 2018. But all that, Mr. Villares, would be if you really wanted to get something constructive out of this whole thing. As I saw it not, clearly — and its beginning was the best show and the development of its intervention as well — I hope that at least in the last intervention it will fulfill its word and make some sort of proposals. I insist that I did them from the beginning. I have here the means that they mobilized, but it's very long, and you said you didn't mobilize practically any means, that everybody was in the firehouses without doing anything, waiting for nobody to call them. Look, it's not like that. One respect to the professionals, at least one respect to the professionals, I know that the Council of Galicia and I personally have very little, too much! As you said, recognize it, making proposals for the future is like making a whole amendment. It's no wonder some are moving so little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u66	Thank you very much, Counselor. We started a special round of clarifications, with the Government's duplicity. On behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u67	Mrs. Paula del Río, well, Paula Prado del Río, Prado del Río, I'm just going to mention your statement to tell you that this Member and other Members of the BNG have been on Sunday 15th, going through the Town Councils, interested and worried about the situation. I myself have been with two mayors of the People's Party, the Soutomajor and the Roundup, and the next day we were actually in front of a banner, because yes, we have a right to criticism, to denunciation, to mobilization, it's a democratic right, it's a democratic right. [[Applause]] You don't seem to realize we're in a system, supposedly democratic, where we're still being made manifest for now, for now, for now; we'll see where things come from. Yes, you may be worrying, moving, talking, interested, and you may also be, when the risk has passed, when it already rains, which is your Emergency Plan, because we in Niger on Monday night were under umbrellas, when your Emergency Plan had passed, which is rain; that's your emergency plan, that's your emergency plan; that's your solution to the emergencies; it's that rains, it rains. And by the way, Mrs. Prado del Río, I'd like you to explain to me: why do you have personal data on the work and working hours of a brigade worker? Or do you, who are so law-abiding, have privileged information about working hours? [[Applause]] Or do they violate the Data Protection Act? [[Murmurs.]] That's very serious, and I hope we get an explanation on this serious violation of a worker's rights. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mrs. Prado del Río, yes, it's not everything, it's not everything, it's not everything. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Rueda, this appearance I suppose it was to talk about the past, because very serious things have happened recently, and therefore we have a right and you have an obligation to talk about what happened, and also from the point of view of the future, of measures towards the future, but do not prevent us, do not suppress the possibility and obligation to talk about the past, because, in any case, by analyzing what happened, we can improve the provision of this fundamental service; as you say, that it takes us better prepared for again. Indeed, but it's already raining on wet, because we already have a lot of critical, catastrophic and extraordinary situations and we always end up the same, to see if we're getting better. But really what they show, after Fandicosta, after Angrois, after the Prestige, is that the situation hasn't improved. So you have to assume responsibility, at most responsible for emergencies in Galicia, which is an autonomous competition, actually shared with other administrations, but an autonomous competition. And he has to do self-criticism, because the professionals told him; they talked specifically about chaos, improvisation, disordination, misuse of means. There's a lot of things, Mr. Rueda, to get better. Computer platforms failed; the communication system failed; there was a late, partial and still above-handling response, using the public media in a perverse way. When they had a quick response — which must be recognised — it was to pay EUR 7,000 to newspapers printed to publish the Feijóo statement on fires; in this they were extraordinarily agile and fast; the same Monday these announcements were already in the regular press. Look, we have made concrete proposals, we have told them of concrete proposals, which are going through, firstly, something very simple, which is to comply with the law, to comply with the law, to develop the standard and to comply with the plans that are adopted. With this, we'd move on. And I mentioned several questions, several articles and commitments of the law that are not met. Mr. Rueda, you're asking me about the comarcaalization of firearms parks. I suppose you have a working group where you're going to discuss this issue, you don't want us to discuss it here, but I'm telling you what the BNG's position in this respect is. BNG's position is favourable to the comarcaalization of municipal firefighter parks, as it is not! We need to make the services we have more efficient, the operations we have. What the vice president of the Parliament and Councillor of Pontevedra said was that logically this should not entail an added cost for the Council of Pontevedra, which is already investing a lot of money in that service. If the dimension of the service is to be expanded, they will have to collaborate, in any case, with other municipalities, with Parliament, with the Council of Galicia or with the appropriate ones, but the Council of Pontevedra is already making an effort. And that was what he referred to in his statements. Of course we want that comarcalibration. Look, I made concrete proposals. First of all, homogenization of firefighting services, regulation of the professional firefighter. Tell me, if it can be in your answer, when they're going to do this. I told you about the recovery plans, which are not help, they're not help calls. The law makes it clear that recovery plans are plans to be developed by the Administration, in collaboration with the municipalities concerned, to seek the recovery of the services and infrastructure affected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u69	They're no help. And just as with the issues related to public information -- which has failed strictly -- with protection, with self-protection, because we are faced with a reality that we cannot circumvent, which is having new forms of fires affecting the population and inhabited areas, and just as there are other countries that have exceptional and special plans, for example by the condition of earthquakes, here we will also have to make a specific preparation for population, training and self-protection for the whole set of operational services to react to this type of disaster situation. So they have a lot of homework to do -- that's what I told you in the first intervention -- and many of them are simply related to compliance and development of the law. And then, of course, the need for a public system, integrated, coordinated, effective and with a single operating command, which we haven't had so far.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u70	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u71	Thank you, President. Mrs Prado, we already know — we are accustomed to that rhetoric or dialectic — that what the Government brings or what the People's Group brings is constructive and what it brings to the opposition because it is destructive; it plays in that dichotomy usually. And that is to confuse precisely the work of opposition with the work of opposition and control to the Government. And in that sense I always draw attention to that issue which we have discussed in Commission 1a. What I do think, Mrs Prado, is an exercise of absolute cynicism is to talk about how it happened on the 14th and 15th days and how they talked about what happened in the 2006 fire strike. I think he was quoting Torquemada, but the inquisitorial work of shredder that they applied in 2006 is in the hemerots. [[Applause]] Now I understand that they want to pass with the greatest smoothness about what happened on the 14th and 15th days. In fact, the vice president's appearance did not address the first intervention, indeed, the event. And in that sense we would also ask for some consistency and know how to be when the opposition is claimed so much to know how to be before the catastrophes are over. I would ask you, Mrs. Prado, and I would even ask the Bureau of this House to withdraw from the Journal of Sessions the personal reference to a fire-fighting service worker. I am a request to the Presidency of the House, because I think it is neither respectable nor reasonable, in terms of parliamentary debate, to use a worker's attitude to try to focus on a general problem. I ask the People's Group, I ask the Vice-President to urge the People's Group to withdraw that serious accusation and use of people, as by the way - and I must say so too - he has done in a more or less veiled way in his presence the President in reference to the mayor of Niger. They're ways of getting them out of the way. And by the way, I can't understand -- well, if I can understand it coming from you -- how it bothers you so much about demonstrations. Does it not seem reasonable to you that in a situation of alarm, of emergency, of social alarm as serious as the one that happened, people go out into the street and manifest themselves, protest, present their concerns? Like it happened in the Prestige. It's legitimate. Society has a need to express itself. That they don't bother them so much the way to express themselves publicly on the street. This is precisely compatible with the actions of government, with the actions of the public authorities. I don't know why they're so worried about this. Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Rueda... yes, no, I say it in case there's some sort of interpellation, because it's almost better to wait another time, isn't it? [[Murmurs.]] I asked several questions; some had answers, but others -- I think the most important -- no. And I believe that, without prejudice to the fact that we have to carry out the necessary work within the Galician Civil Protection Commission, in the working group, etc., and so on, there are questions that need answers at this plenary meeting or at other plenary meetings. Because I really still have doubts about whether you really are clear that the response system of day 14-15 worked in a way I don't say effective anymore, but in an integral way so that it can be effective. If there has really been a single command, because if there has been a single command — I insist — why has President Feijóo offered in this House, in the thirty measures, to be operational the only command that established his Article 12 of the Galician Emergency Act? The single command, distributed among territorial delegates, really worked as such one command? I don't doubt that the level activation decisions depend on the technicians, so it should be. But I have doubts that there is a proper coordination between the Platerga and the Pladiga, and the Pladiga and the Peifoga. I mean, I think we have to go ahead with an analysis of precisely the coordination of what is the general planning of emergency and civil protection. As I was talking about a concrete park, I'll tell you about another concrete park. Tell me — how many of us do I believe that everyone we know of the city — that the Fire Service — spoke of Vigo, I speak of the Coruña — was not mobilized for more than ten hours, and the services of Madrid arrived earlier. I can't understand this way of working on emergencies. Another question that had no answer is precisely whether there was a proper technological integration of platforms 112 and 085, because there is no, there is no. You were talking about certain decisions to improve training in the future, in the area of isochrons covering all shadow areas, in the area of emergency map, in the area of prevention. But he didn't tell me at all — and I think it's essential for us too — of the necessary integration of organic and functional management of all fire extinguishing services. We cannot conceive of the extinction of fires and rescue from a purely urban perspective. And on the 15th, he showed that this interface didn't work. So we have to make a decision to go to a new model, public and unique — as I told you in my intervention — to carry forward precisely an integrated emergency management system in Galicia that is able to meet the necessary training all the problem of fires, whether they have forest incidence or have urban incidence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u73	He always talks about other Members, they never talk about the House of Ourense; I don't know if it will be because they rule it. But I think you should tell him a lot of things you have to worry about. I believe that, if you are going to work on training, on integration of extinction services, that is, you cannot give the situation, as we have known recently, of certain actions of the Labour Inspectorate that are demolition in the prevention of work risks, precisely in many of the bases of extinction of forest fires, or, without going further, the critical situation that was presented in these weeks, in these months, precisely the base of Xinzo de Limia, where there are piled up...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u75	...of retardants, of explosive bombs. I mean, they're not situations that help at all with an integral conception of an effective Galician emergency system and, as I say, integral. There's a lot to be done, Counselor, and what if we ask are answers to those questions and always more self-critical than we've been used to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. I was speaking of Mrs. Prado de Torquemada. Burned is Galicia, ma'am. That's the problem. Also your image and management capacity. But beyond that, Mrs Prado could go through a real Torquemada, but, as you are more modern than that, they are all worthy of the same political party of the political police of Fernández Díaz, who investigated and used public resources from the Ministry of the Interior only and exclusively for political and not judicial reasons, and not for criminal investigation. And that's why he comes here today and shows a photograph of a person who's exercising a fundamental right. And, therefore, we don't understand very well what it means to these nightmares beyond trying to increase the population that democratically exercises its rights. [[Applause]] The apocalypse of what you're talking about was the one that lived a lot of people and perceived by their own senses almost a million Greeks. The thing is, they don't like listening to reality, they don't like listening to what people think. We've come here to bring the opinion of many other people who aren't you. You want people to think neither mind nor mind. And that's why they pick up and disguise reality through the manipulation of CRTVG, but they can't help but, up until now — for now — that we come here and betray the opinion of many people who have come to know directly what has happened and who do not comply and do not resign to their information manipulation. Mr. Rueda spoke of what the Environment Attorney said, but what the Environment Prosecutor says is compatible with his own area of responsibility, because you have the responsibility to coordinate the available troops, that only operational command that exists on the paper, and therefore you have an obligation to make it real. It's also within its own scope of action not to manipulate CRTVG and put public media to the service of public interest. And it's also part of its own scope of responsibility for compliance with the applicable laws. To begin with, the full development of the Galician Emergency Act of 2007, and then others like the forest fires. Is this your responsibility or is it not your responsibility? And if it's your responsibility, what are you doing not to do it? You were asking for Lugo now. I said it, I think it's pretty clear, but I'll explain it again, don't worry. There were materially available troops who could not mobilize for the fires, not only in Pontevedra, in the province of Lugo itself, where they also lacked, because there were no personal forces to do so. And if those personal forces were available -- and it depended on you who were available -- then those material means could have served to increase the device of the fight against fires. And he doesn't just say it in Marea, the firemen themselves, who also pulled out a communiqué in this sense. And as for the county parks, don't worry: here's one of our proposals. From the political space of the Tides it is fully prepared to carry out all that is necessary to improve the effectiveness of the fight against fires and to make a public emergency system unique for all of Galicia. And as we move forward in proposals, also Mrs Prado's suggestion regarding the county parks. I came here to explain to us that the systems could not be published on a question of personnel. I recommend that you read the judgment of the Comptrollo-Administrative No. 3 of Valladolid number 150/2017, this same month of November, where you recognize the ability of the Public Administration to move from an indirect management form to a form of management directly in this municipal case; of course, at a price followed by the instances of the Ministry of Business itself, which was intended to prevent the repatriation in that case of the water service. In connection with this too, and also with what Mr. Rueda said in his appeal, we are indeed criticising the Provincial Deputy of Lugo for not paying the wages to the workers and not equated them with those of Ourense province. In fact, In Marea, from a band, has already planned for 2017 those increments, which you now have in 2018 says include in the budgets. And we also criticise the fact that they were no longer paid in the U.S. part last year, because they were not given by the MP, nor by the MP, who had already arranged them last year. By the way, we haven't just seen the causal relationship that you see and that Mr. Balsairo sees in Lugo between wage equality and recovery for the public of the service itself. The services may be in the indirect concession scheme and, as soon as there is no relocation, if they produce a wage equalization of services that are being rendered on equal terms in Ourense than in Lugo. More positive proposals do you want? Well, in emergencies and fire extinguishing, the need to specifically contemplate the risks of emergencies in industrial areas, not only in the custody of critical infrastructures, to which you referred. More necessary than ever before, municipal emergency plans, which are, in addition, endowed with substantive content where all the people responsible for them know how to act in case of emergency. More emergency proposals? The need for the single operating command to be real, for the emergency law to be fully developed, for protocols already in force on the Pladiga, Platterga, Peifoga, etc. In the budget, a real budget to make simulations to the civilian population, both of how they defend themselves in housing and how to make evacuations, especially in the most conflicting places. The provision of material means, also basic protection, for the population in civil protection equipment. And also implement in the emergency protocols in the presence of animals with respect to animal protection in emergency services such as 112 to activate the necessary specialized means where necessary. And to take account also of these emergency plans of public interest entities working in animal protection and which could be useful in managing these catastrophes as well. As well as the measures you've taken...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u79	...—if—partly—referred on the dissemination of new prevention measures, this is a measure envisaged in the Pladiga. And on the awareness-raising measures — some of which he referred to, the others not — we want to remember that they are also on the Pladiga and that in addition to the Marea initiative, he reported that last year 2,000 schoolchildren less benefited from these awareness-raising campaigns, to which the People's Party was not aware. Nor does it seem reasonable to us to comply...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u81	...... yes, yes, I'm done with that 90% saying that the other areas are not priority because few people live. To us 40,000 people still look like an important number of people. And it seems to us that this criticism or disillusionment goes in line with what the Rural Media Advisor also said just three weeks ago, openly criticising or disposing of the means that are destined for places where few people live, as if these people weren't Greeks and Greeks who deserve the same social protection and the same social and fundamental rights as the rest of Galician citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, those who don't like people to think and think, do you know who I am? They are the Breogán Riobóo, the Dante Fachín, the Carolina Bascana, the Silvia Jáuregui, the Manel Consola. The unique thought belongs to your organization, Mr. Villares. [[Applause]] Those are the ones who don't want people who think and think differently. Look, Mr. Díaz, I didn't say exactly that you didn't have a proactive spirit, on the contrary. No, no, of course, I understand that you likewise stood up as a defender of the whole opposition. As you also stood up in the voice of the whole Socialist Party and then they told you it wasn't. But look at you, precisely you, excluding him from those who have not made proposals, from you excluding him from the destructive opposition. And you come here to defend those who destroy, and you come here to defend the Torquemada, there you, Mr. Díaz!, there you are! Look, tell you that we have to be able to take the words off a union officer. Look, about that gentleman who's a union manager, who's a worker's representative, there are workers who don't feel represented by him. And just like some of them have data from 112 -- and seeing where they got them from -- others talk to comrades too, and the comrades talk and they don't feel represented by a gentleman who comes out in all the media saying things like, "Fire the mountain and the board doesn't answer," "we believe that there are brigades, people in the mountain to put out the fire," and then when they call to put out the fire, it's the first thing not to go. [[Murmurs.]] Well, there are Seaga workers who have a real public service vocation that they don't feel represented by a gentleman who isn't a real public servant, because when they call to put out the fire it won't go. [[Applause]] And of course I'm not taking it off, because just like we're talking about Carlos Faílde and you don't take what they said about Carlos Faílde, who is also a worker, because we're not going to withdraw... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u84	Quiet, please. Listen to who's in the use of the word, just like you heard in previous interventions, please. Please listen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u85	So, if everything goes out in the media, with interviews on the radio, in the press, and so on, I suppose this gentleman will not feel bad if we talk about what he does and he represents or does not represent all Seaga's workers. So I think it's important. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Speaking of competences, is it the competence of the Board to put out the fires in Vigo? No, right, Mr. Díaz. But Junta took on her responsibility and drew assets and resources from where there are competences, which is in the forest field, to go out of the fires to Vigo. And you've already explained to the vice president what the mayor did. And Vigo's delegate in Pontevedra, Mrs. Mari Carmen Silva, what she does is abdicate every day of her powers. And the Deputy of Pontevedra must also assume his powers, just like all other deputies. And as I say from Mrs. Mari Carmen Silva, I also say that Mr. Valentín Formoso is a lord and is a gentleman, because when he came here to Parliament he recognized the work he was doing in Junta. So this isn't a partisan issue, it's a question of people, it's a question of political leaders who assume their competences and responsibilities and political leaders who don't assume them. [[Applause]] And Mrs. Mari Carmen Silva doesn't assume her powers or her responsibilities, and it's time for her to take them, Mr. Díaz, it's time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I understand that speaking of Vigo and speaking of Mari Carmen is complicated for some to be quiet, but please contain a little, which then asks for the word for allusions. And I, if you let me talk, I, if you let me talk... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u86	Let's see, silence, listen to who's in the use of the word, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u87	And beyond their competences, Junta takes one more step in attention to emergencies, and leads today, and leads a process since November 7, proposing measures that would correspond to competent administrations. And Junta assumes that responsibility, of course, she assumes responsibility, but you also have leaders in the municipalities and in the deputies tell them that they also have to assume their responsibilities, because this is a responsibility of all and all and not only of the People's Party and not only of the Unity of Galicia. We are all invited to participate in solving this problem and we are all invited to provide solutions and proposals, and today we hear very little; many criticisms, very few proposals... yes, yes, yes, of course, they are only to criticize. [[Murmurs.]] No, look, the opposition also has a constructive task, I understand that you haven't come in yet, you don't know... neither where they rule can manage, nor where they make opposition they know how to propose. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your proposal we already know: the sign. [[Applause]] The sign is your proposal. It's just from the sign, it's from the sign and it's from the billboard. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because look, they haven't made any reference today to the proposals that Mr. Vice-President has made. What do you have against the emergency map? What do you have against creating new services? What do they have against improving working conditions? From the final consolidation of the GHG, which accounts for more than half of the population? From the integration of 112 services? Those are the proposals that the Vice-President has brought to this House today. What's your proposal? The sign, the sign. Well, look, that doesn't solve the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. But look, while Galicia was burning, Mr. Bará, because Galicia was also burning on Monday, because in Ourense it wasn't raining, you already had the banners prepared and you had already invited the children and children of this community to participate in the demonstrations that they had called at the school doors, distributing leaflets for Galician children and children to participate in the demonstrations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u89	We're not going to participate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u90	Quiet, quiet, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u91	...of his proposals. We invite them to make positive proposals, to say that they like the Vice-President's proposals; if they don't like them, to make other alternatives and, if they like them, they have the courage to join them; nothing happens to say that there are proposals that are good, nothing happens. They won't let...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u93	...to be a serious party to join the People's Party's proposals. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u94	Thank you. Close this meeting, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To thank that now if some have made themselves, some have made proposals in this last turn of interventions; less bad too, eh!, less bad, because I say again: the Galician Board has come to do them from the beginning, for that it asked for this, and after seeing the first turn of interventions, where everything was critical — in the end, some with very little foundation and that I have tried to discuss them in what I could — at least some proposal, so look at them! It's just that we have organs to start implanting them now, that's what we wanted. It's just that some of them are the same as our own, and so I guess there'll be no problem implanting them. Others are little novices, as you accused us of, but in the end they are proposals, and therefore those that are novices, too, but if we're here for... I've heard very advanced proposals. Mr. Villoslada said: organic and functional integration, he said it again. Hey, that's bigger words, you propose. Put resources on the table and we can see it. I hope you have some authority to bring this proposal on behalf of administrations that will lose a lot of skills and resources — losing in the right direction — in favour of others. I hope that later those who rule in the administration will say: Mr Villoslada proposed this in Parliament and we bring it here. That would be a good demonstration of coordination in the Socialist Party, which would work very well for emergencies. I wish it would be so and I wish they could bring them in, Mr. Villoslada. Mr. Bará, he said I wouldn't expect us to agree to comarcallization here; no, much less. What I'm trying to say is we're talking here. He said that respect for this House requires that, before we propose it to the administrations, we propose it here, and that's what I wanted to do with this appearance. And so I do the same thing, I give the same treatment to the proposals that have been made, we listen to them, they say here, and then they bring, as Mr. Díaz Villoslada said now, to the organs that can actually put them into practice. So those proposals are still there. And to close the intervention, point out something you said, which I think it's necessary for them to be on time. The first is that the computer platform failed, Mr Bará; the computer platform failed on 15th and 16th, fortunately. You make that fuss about putting everything in, everything that can go wrong and if it didn't work wrong, we have to say it, because if we don't, we don't make it clear, because we're here, especially in your first intervention, and I say: I thank you later for the correction in part; the first was to say that it was all a disaster. Well, don't get into that package -- I shouldn't put in a lot more things -- the computer platform, because the computer platform didn't fail, fortunately for everyone, on 15 and 16. About 112, which said a lot of things, today they said less, perhaps because they already had more information. But look, you know what was said about 112 in August 2006 in the press, not the People's Party. "Many neighbors who tried to ask for help in the face of the flames did not receive a response. Beep, beep, beep... until it was cut. That's what was expected when you score 112." That was said in 2006. So -- and it has already been said here -- there are situations in which for all emergency services, when circumstances are given like those given on the 15th and the 16th, which were given on other occasions, which were given in other autonomous communities, it is impossible to answer all the calls. So be a little more realistic and don't do demagogues that don't lead anywhere. That everything's better? Of course. That the 112 service was reinforced to 150% — or 50% in 2006, at most —? That's right. That it wasn't enough yet? Well, hey, probably, but they've put reinforcements in front of the situation that doesn't have any doubt, Mr. Bara, and all the rest. Tell me about the approval. Oh, he said yes, he wanted comarcalization. Well, I appreciate it. The time will come very quickly to demonstrate that this will that you expressed here clearly — or so I understood it — is true and if you will be able to comarcate the fire department in Pontevedra. I suppose this has been talked to Mr. Mosquera too, because the Deputy of Pontevedra will have to provide a lot of public resources. And so the municipalities of Poio, Marín, Ponte Caldelas, Cerdedo-Cotobade can be attended. It's good news, if later his fellow parties and government in the Deputies don't let him get hurt, which I hope not, because we're going to propose it quickly. He also told me about approval and making the fireman's regulation, that when we're going to do it. Listen! I repeat, once again, because I think things don't repeat them often should be clear: let's clear up the management system we want for fire parks, which are twenty-five parks of comarcas firemen. We've been waiting for two years! And he says, "No, you say until it's done..." But I've been saying we can do it for two years! Mr. Villares told me that the wages of Lugo firemen can be paid equal to those of Ourense and those of Pontevedra or those of the Coruña. I agree. It's just that we've already set up budget resources for everyone this year. And, Mr. Villares, I don't even ask you to be determined and effective so that the management model can be changed. What I ask for is a roadmap, which asks the Galician Union for is a roadmap. When will you be able to do it? It's just that there's nothing worth saying to me about the Deputy of Pontevedra: "No, it's that concessions are in force until the year 2021 and a lot of money would have to be paid." Hey, but wouldn't we save so much with direct management, according to the Deputy of Pontevedra and the other Members? For then those savings that go to the ransom of concessions; or, if not the ransom of concessions, look! for it will be worth putting money here to make the ransoms before, which were the ones who proposed it. Or, in any case, let's make a clear roadmap for us and for the professionals, and as soon as we have that roadmap and if we take the full agreements, we implement the approval. Now, don't tell me, Mr. Villares — I understand, from what you have said — that we have to give up all hope at the Galician Summit that there will not be a roadmap in time until the year 2021, in the case of the Pontevedra Deputy, that is, district firefighters of Pontevedra parks, and until the year 2019 — it seems to me to be — local firefighters of Lugo parks. The Coruña have it easier, first because Mr. Formoso, indeed, was much clearer, and I think what you're saying is what you're going to do, because there's the advanced conversations and then because the concessions are expired. But where to wait for the ransom, what's going on? Are we not going to have anything, nothing, until a few years pass? So what do they lie to professionals for? So they've been telling them things they've been checking for two years that's not true, and I think they're already clear that the Galician Union is no obstacle? So this year we've got roadmaps and we've got a match and the firefighters of Pontevedra, Lugo and Coruña are starting to approve to their colleagues in Ourense. But, before, the Members, I no longer say they do their duties, they fulfill their word and they fulfill their commitments; for not with us, at least with the professionals. Mr. Bará, he also told me about the help. I'll tell you again: no, it's just that I understood you well, perfectly; yes, yes; the aids are for recovery of damage on municipal equipment. He says, "but it doesn't have to be with help, it has to be with plans." Look, it's got to be money, it's got to be money, and the damage happens when there's a fire or some kind of emergency or disaster. Now it's produced, we want to fix it. I've already told you that, as you said, we're not going to wake up here, but I have already told you that we will also ask the Deputy of Pontevedra, which is where the most damage has been, along with the Deputy of Ourense, a proposal to see if we are able to repair those damage among all of us. What are you going to tell us?, as Mrs. President of the Pontevedra Parliament told me: "No, the forest fires are the competence of the Galician Union, we have nothing to do with it." That's what he said to me in front of more people; besides, he said it in the media. What does that mean? That the municipalities will not be able to have any help, unless they renounce those they already had the right through the plans, which the Deputy has to give them by law? Would you take money from there to devote them to the fires? Won't there be any extra money? Aren't you going to do as the Galician Union, because this fires don't fall within the competence of provincial deputies? I hope this is not so and I hope that when we make this proposal, we will do it quickly — we are collecting the damage that they are, could be doing the Deputy of Pontevedra too, the Deputy of Ourense is doing it, or the Deputy of Lugo, who has also suffered damage on the mountain, but is doing so to the Council of Galicia, so we will make that proposal. Mr. Villoslada told me: It seems to me that we are not talking about these issues from the House of Ourense. Yes, yes, yes! we're talking about the appropriate part, but it's about the House of Ourense I have to say that at the meeting we had in the Government Delegation the representative of the Parliament said they were going to give help and that they were willing to make agreements with the Council of Galicia. It was the only deputy of the four who publicly said it. So we don't have that problem and we don't have it with each other, I hope we don't have it, but today I don't know what's going to happen. It was also what he said from the beginning that he was in agreement with the management system that there was, indirect management, and therefore did not pose any change. He hasn't told them a story that's not meeting the professionals, the firefighters who work in the Ourense district parks. You know what there is and look—causuality—it turns out that the reference to balance the salaries is with Ourense firefighters. He also said yes from the beginning to the comarcallization, he said it publicly too. Today we have made progress here, but the other presidents of the deputies have not yet said whether or not they agree with the comarcaalization. The one in the Coruña I know it is, because we've been patrolling the Ferrol Park, but he's got two more parks left; I guess there won't be any problem. But from Lugo and Pontevedra we don't know anything, and the House of Ourense said yes to the comarcacalization of Ourense Park. He was talking about demonstrations, too. Look, for us, they're perfectly legitimate. What is not normal — and I have to say it here, as my companion Paula Prado told you — is to be calling them on the 15th in the middle of fire. That I saw summons for the next day's demonstration when I was in the Neves at 12 o'clock at night, with which there were in the Neves, and there were people who were dedicating themselves to making calls for the next day. With which, if it seems good to you that in the middle of the night, at 12 Sunday night, 11 a.m., someone is dedicating himself to preparing a demonstration for Monday, it doesn't seem normal to me, and, being legitimate any demonstration, the way to convene it, and the moment doesn't seem like it, and so I have to tell him. And I suppose you — and I hope so — don't look like a normal way to proceed either. [[Applause]] And on the other hand, I already say: for all these proposals — you said it in your first intervention — that's what the groups are for, and I hope that during 2018 we will see important progress. And, finally, Mr. Villares, I also have to thank you for some proposal that you have made — less bad for yourself!, especially when you see your first intervention — but I also have to say something to you about Mrs. Prado's protests about a worker: I have a question tomorrow from En Marea to answer why a worker in a public environment is capable and has the right to write an article in a newspaper that doesn't like you, and bring it to Parliament to answer it. I'll reply with great pleasure, but that's press freedom and that's the censor capacity that some people exercise; so apply the story, Mr. Villares, apply the story. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm glad you don't discuss what the environmental prosecutor, who actually said that, said that there are uncontrollable situations and, therefore, I agree. 87% of the firefighting services, including those in the cities and the county parks, have mobilized, Mr. Villares. I have a much longer, detailed list, if you want: 75% of the GHG; municipal civil protection services, 55%; UME, 80%; firefighters in the Madrid Community — who did not arrive before the firefighters in the Coruña, eh!; they called to offer themselves and arrived when they could arrive; of course, much later than any Welsh resource—and, of course, the GES almost all. Many have also been mobilized -- I mean, I have here -- and I can make it easier -- the level of mobilization, and probably you, then, would have to correct some things you're saying. And I'll tell you, if it's so easy to change the management model, go ahead! Don't tell me you have to wait a few years; you don't have to wait a year or anything. You said there were judgments that support remunicipalizations. In this case it wouldn't be a remunicipalization, because there's a consortium, but the mechanism would be... let's do it as soon as possible! Let's do it as soon as possible, really! I just don't know how to say we've been waiting for two years. That taboo of which was an impediment, which never was, has been expressly broken, and no one — no president of parliament — can say otherwise. So let's not waste any more time and do a lot of the things we can do. And finally, I made an allusion to Mr. Rodríguez for stabbing -- so he understood -- which he did in my first intervention on 95%. Hey! If we get to 95%, we get to what no autonomous community has arrived, that's clear; so let's all coordinate. 95% think it's a very realistic goal. What do you have to try to reach 100 percent? Yes, yes, let's go for steps, yes, yes, it'll be 100 percent, of course, Mr. Villares, and of course, Mr. Rodríguez. But then, some of those areas that would not be covered, in this new leap to 95%, are, for example, in Pontevedra. Hey! Well, see if the Deputy of Pontevedra allows you to pay 20% that you don't want to pay to the municipalities, and then there's more resources to meet a little more, and so, maybe, in the province of Pontevedra we've reached 97% or 98% now, because this is a global effort. Of course, we have to get to 100 percent, but if we're not setting targets, it's very hard to do it. Now we're making an 85% change, which is already on average -- seeing the state as a whole -- I think it's very reasonable, knowing the dispersion we have, in addition, but we have to get to 100 percent. And I say again: if we want — and I am finished with this, Mr President — I am sorry to say to you, but the laws tell you what they say and, above all, the ones who did them — and perhaps there is here a Member or Member who was at that time, when that law was made, and voted in favour of it, they will have to know why they say that the responsibility to provide emergency and fire management services is for Members. We could come here to talk about great coordination and say that we have no reason to involve ourselves in the equipment or training of civil protection volunteers; that we have no reason to be paying, as we are paying, 50% of the comarcasal services against fires; that we must not now engage in comarcasalization, proposing it and piloting it; that we would not have to, because we would have to provide services on the ground, and that would be competition — I mean, according to law — of the deputies and of the councils of more than 20,000 inhabitants. That, logically, we're not going to do that, because then we wouldn't be talking, in any case, about 95% of the population's ratios or 85-90% of the territory. That's why we're going to keep getting involved, and that's why these proposals are. As after this appearance, the sessions of the working groups — and they will arrive very quickly — will arrive very quickly, we hope that during the first six months we will leave political struggles aside and be able to move forward in something, because that doesn't understand the emergencies of administrative borders or people in general; they don't understand that we are discussing due to political differences a proper coverage of emergencies. Mr. Méndez Romeo said in 2006, after the fires, that the management of the fire strike — and I read textually — "was an experience of collaboration between very good institutions, from which many lessons of solidarity and cooperation can be drawn." Well, there's something that many years later they're particularly vigilant. On the part of the Galician Union, here is the hand held, with budgetary resources, with political impulse and with capacity for understanding. I hope the other administrations are up to it, too, and we'll check it out quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u96	Thank you, Vice President. We move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which corresponds to motions, and we discuss three motions cumulatively: G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the management of the mountain, the prevention and fight against forest fires and the management of the Director General of Forest Management with regard to the wave of fires G.P. motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of forest fire prevention and fight and management carried out by the Ministry of the Rural Environment G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Quiroga Díaz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the prevention of forest fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u97	The Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego tabled two amendments: one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and one from the People's Parliamentary Group. And those of the other groups have tabled amendments from the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u98	We start with the shifts and, first of all, you have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. And it doesn't rain, and normality doesn't come back, and the climate cycle where the anticyclone settles as an infrared barrier to the tires that once watered our land becomes assiduous visitor. And after the 15th of October disaster, climatology has not yet done anything wrong with the vast burned territory: it rained slowly and in a manner, enough to sit on the burnt ground and to give time to those who had and intend to recover the mountain. However, we do not see this truce being used by the Government to implement appropriate measures for repair and recovery. They continue to be slow, apathetic and ineffective. Look, as long as they can't see reality, as they're trying to throw balloons out by throwing blames on one side and on the other, while the culprits are unique and exclusively those incendiary terrorists who, with destructive anxiety, set right and left fire, while using the media and the information silence to avoid the real dimension of the problem, will be giving up blind poles, because the 15th day disaster is exploding by the conjunction of several cases; it's a substantive structural problem. The cases in sight are: dry, wind, incendiary and tons of unordered fuel and concert throughout the territory; this fuel as a result of wrong policies at the service of those who want to plant for the benefit of four who always win, with fire or without it, with no apparent prevention and abandonment of functions on the subject of security fringes. Our country and our people don't deserve this abuse. People's abandonment and the absence of the future that their policies of intensive forestry and cessation of agricultural activity caused crime in Galicia. First, and paired with the greedy revolution that starts to gesturing around the '80s, you once again provide an unordered and concertal forestation; and I say 'once again' because the fires came from afar, from that wild forest of Icona. Then there was the pine tree in the hills of common use seized to the people, which raised protests — possible — in the form of fire. Now, from the 1980s, a new kind of faster growth, the eucalyptus, could bet on the two monocultures: milk and eucalyptus and pine. Europe's money was spent on a progressive dependence on inputs, on a career in production that led to a specialization in milk-producing machines, not cows, I bought concentrated food from abroad with a minimum profit margin for the producer. And this led us to an intensive exploitation model with strong investments, causing a abandonment of the brutal field and a dependence on extreme exogenous inputs; fearful investments that generate excessive indebtedness. In the mountains, too. Milk was an excuse. Someone wasn't trusting was marking a wrong path. As the farms were abandoned, the young people left the countryside and after a few years they became absenteeists who bore these fertile lands, and the best mountains, in eucalyptals who were burning and spreading their seed more and more. Large areas of the territory began to catch the sad green color of the monoculture. It's not the eucalyptus the culprit; the culprits are the ones who promoted chaos with their policy of lack of policies for the rural environment. In the Bipartite we tried to put order in this chaos: they said laws, took the development of rural as a whole as usual, a whole, and tools appeared. The Land Bank intended that the protagonists of the primary economy, farmers and farmers, could take advantage, for the benefit of the community, of the useful agricultural area that others abandoned, of course giving a fair payment for the leases of those lands. Making agribusiness profitable could become attractive and profitable, moving back to the exodus and changing the trend. Next to this tool, I was the complement, which I wanted to overcome the old trap of the atomization of the property. Forest management units have been shown as the tool for the use of the mountain fractionated into small tents, ordering the territory and making a sustainable and complementary collective use of agricultural activity. You, in the pursuit of regaining the power that you believe corresponds to them by divine command, the first thing they did was to return the country to chaos, and in those walks we walk. This motion that we present to you is intended to go to the bottom of the problem. Warnings repeat and policies for the rural environment do not change; you don't listen. The forest plan that is being managed will condition and define the mountain policy for the future. The guidelines adopted for the review of this Galician forest plan define two clear objectives: one, the use of mountains must be primarily forest. The greed of lands for forest is manifest and worrying, but we repeat here, once again, that the Greek mountain has no intensive forest vocation, especially of the Eucalyptus-pien duality. And, two, the attempt to usurp the neighboring mountains to the communal neighbourhood — go away! — a vault covered by franchiseism, because — they believe me — the great value of the figure of the brotherly estate of the neighboring mountains in common is in their participatory democratic management. If, in theory, we all agree that the mountain needs to overcome the atomization of property and the only remedy assumed by the population is a collective management from private property, we develop the uxfor once again, striving for money and human resources, as they put in place last year. It would be the remedy to order the use of the mountain and to give solution to the safety strips in many areas. And, coming here, I don't understand why you don't spend money on effort, and in dynamizing, motivating and putting into collective use those neighboring mountains that are in abandonment. But, look, a mountain managed without the objective priority of forest production does not have to be considered an abandoned mountain; a multifunctional mountain may be serving economically to the community where it settles and does not possess intensive forest surface. In short, priority is given to land use management and rational management of the tree masses. I understand that any economic reactivation for you goes through capitalism and the market mandate, leads them or not to the most irrational disaster. You are never going to anticipate the times, guiding and planning, making long-term policies. A policy for rural people in this country is this: a country policy, a rural project in the German context. This is the subject, spoken and preached: Galicia. Given the failure and futility of the current and still existing forest plan, with the duplication of unordered eucalyptus masses and concert, a moratorium on the implementation of this species will be essential and a regression on the surface applied in the first phase, at least to the levels that the aforementioned forest plan predicts in theory. The necessity of this measure is endorsed by repeated warnings that, in conjunction with the climate cycle we suffer, we are being given as propagators and as species that prevents life and exhausts aquifers, but which, in addition, has little value in relation to the land they occupy and other species that could decouple their price on the market. Paulatinamentally, we should go back to the forest diversity and the wood processing industry, really: strawberry, deer, chestnut, oak... It is essential to regain the wording of article 21 — the original wording — of the Law 3/2007, of fire prevention and defense, recovering the 100 meters wide of biomass management fringes in the perimeter of urban nuclei, and of all kinds of installations less than 400 metres from the mountain. By the way, they now discover that in order to act on the protection strips there is a need for legal changes that there was not, and that now that you see in evidence, they are forced to take. It wasn't the city council's fault. Congratulations! I'm late, but congratulations. But seriously, it's the principle of any measure of prevention and extinction, and above all to avoid the threat of interface fires, which now seems to exist. Modify the lines of help, prevention and defense against forest fires destined for mountain-holders, adding the following characteristics. They will be approved in March and carried out the prevention work by 30 June. That these subsidised jobs can be done manually or mechanically, that the subsidised jobs can be done by companies and by staff hired by mountain communities. Amendment to Article 24 of Law 3/2007, concerning preventive forestry, recovering its original wording. You know? It refers to ensuring the horizontal and vertical discontinuity of forest biomass, and the alternating of theses with different inflammability and fuelity. The dimensions of these tissues should vary between 20 and 50 hectares in general cases, and between 1 and 20 hectares in high-risk fire zones. In forestry or reforestation actions, monospecific forest masses cannot have a continuous surface of more than 50 hectares, and must be subdivided alternately. This is called prevention and management. You know what it's about? Between the 2013 and 2017 CAP campaign, we detected a cropland area loss of 150,000 hectares. This data gives evidence of the absence of a project for agricultural activity, and this administration has done nothing to keep the land of the farms that abandoned the activity from agricultural use. Nor did it act since the Union to curb illegal agrarian forests, mainly with eucalyptus. A plan for the recovery of land of agricultural vocation is therefore essential...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u101	...illegally forested. I will not repeat here for the last time the need to approve the Pladiga in February in order to be able to carry out prevention tasks before the maximum risk period, nor should a fire-affected mountain restructuring plan be in place at this stage. In addition to the recovery of the soil, an extraordinary plan for economic recovery of the areas affected by the fire is essential. There are areas that are left to zero, zero! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u102	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. He's got another shift later. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u103	Thank you, President. It's a pity Mrs Prado isn't here, because even if we've already said a few proposals, we're going to say more proposals. And it's also a pity you're not the Counsellor, because as much as they say they respect mobilization, they don't show it in many of their statements, and they don't show it in the application of certain laws as the law bites. But even if they're upset, we're going to continue to mobilize and society is going to continue to mobilize, because as much as they say nothing is achieved, they should remember that it was the people on the street who managed to resign a minister from them. [[Applause]] Because, as much as you say they bring a lot of proposals, what they bring is actually a lot of propaganda, and today we bring this motion with the intention of putting a number of measures on the table to start taking steps in the necessary model change that we need. Of course, we don't want it to be a point of arrival, but a point of departure. In fact, many of the points that we announce here have to be debated more often to deepen them, and above all to see how to realize them and adapt them to the different realities of our territory, but the important thing is the general line. We understand that in the face of a complex problem — and we have been repeating for a long time that we are facing a complex and multi-causal problem — solutions have to be -- although it sounds repetitive -- multiple and also complex, and these measures that we bring today start from this complex diagnosis and incorporate this necessary perspective in the medium and long term, in contrast to the measures that you put on the table, which start from a very short-sighted and very short-sighted vision. We understand that it is true that they put measures — not so much as proposals — on the table in recent weeks, and are characterized, from our point of view, by two serious deficiencies: improvisation, because they only take measures after things happen; and propaganda, because they have no real realization, are superficial and partial, and because in most cases they don't go to the source of problems. There are some who put themselves on the table that could be understood as more structural measures, but that are not new and that are already collected in the legislation, legislation made and approved by you, and we don't understand why they're not starting. So we don't understand what the novelty really is, or what change now decided to take the Government. In view of your amendment, we can guess where your speeches go, and it's quite contradictory to all the speech you just made both Mrs. Prado and the advisor, because everything comes from that study commission. So do you want proposals or don't want proposals? And where do you want the proposals? We understand that the study committee is very good that it is believed, in fact we ask it at first, but this commission is about to move forward, and not just to paralyze us. There are certain measures that may already be put in place. In fact, this debate is not a novelty either, we've also been trying to address this problem for a long time before the terrible wave of fires happened. All this time that we tried to put this debate on the table, you constantly denied that there was such a problem and everything had to continue exactly as it was doing in previous years. But it's true that what happened in October, on that tragic weekend, what has done was to make it more visible in a clearer way than in other moments that we're faced with two antagonistic models. As I say, we already knew, but in those specific days it was seen in a very clear way. On the one hand, there is its model, which continues to maintain; a failed model, which bets by reducing the mountain exclusively to the productive; they use many times as synonym mountain and forest; they still understand the fires as isolated facts; and from this simplistic and reductionist conception also derive all the measures they put on the table. But there's another model that's not just what I'm defending in Marea, that's what many other people are defending; a model that is set by structural transformation, that understands that the fires are only a symptom and that what plays urgently is to stop thinking and regain and value all the functions that historically had the mountain in Galicia, which is not one, as has already been commented on in this House on many occasions, but it's social, ecological and also productive, but not unique and exclusively productive. Every year of the People's Party's government—sometimes when they speak from this rostrum it seems they arrived yesterday in the Government, but unfortunately they've been in the way of politics for many years in the areas we've been dealing with now—they have put in place policies for the management of the poor territory, which were totally inappropriate to the reality of Galicia. They bet in a very clear way by the monoculture of low-value species added, and -- as I said -- I think all these measures that have been going on all these years is because they understand that the territory is only for the accumulation of capital, when the territory, the country and the mountain are so that all of us can live better. As I said, I think we are playing a serious debate, which unfortunately is very few times — or never — since I am here at least — if there is a serious debate, if we stop making so much propaganda, actually talking about the causes and not repeating slogans of rural legislation, because their speeches, obviously, do not believe them anymore because they are not supported by anything in the political practice that they carry out, or even by the budgets that we are debating at these very times. The fundamental problem is that all debates are constantly false, and that has a difficulty — as I have said on other occasions — added when establishing a dialogue, because, if we were to speak frankly and honestly, we would probably say that we do not like it, it is wrong or have different opinions, but you are wrong and even lying. For example, they now announce — as mentioned above — that coordination with the municipalities will be improved and that they will continue to derive more and more responsibilities from these, as if it were a new issue. But, in parallel with making this great announcement, they freeze the budgetary departure for this collaboration, or sell as novice all these measures that are collected in the legislation that you have approved and that have been failing for years and years. So why do we have to think that now — let us have some sort of a vote of faith — if they're going to comply with the legislation that's been going on for many years, saying that this legislation has to be fulfilled? They also had slips, because Montes's own director general had already done a wonderful interview in which he was talking about systematic non-compliance. The forest plan. We really want the Forest Plan to debate and be more involved, of course. But what's going to serve a forest plan if it's going to be systematically breached? Obviously, we understand it won't do any good. We hope that this forest plan is truly involved and has all the perspectives, not only with the productive vision, but really the most important thing is that it will then be fulfilled. And then -- as I have already commented -- we hope that in this study committee that has just been approved, they go beyond the close frameworks of the debate, because they also limit much of the debate, because we have to talk about forest policy, we have to talk about how we manage our mountains, we have to talk about the model of fire prevention and extinction, but also -- and it's something you never talk about -- we have to talk about the deforestation of rural areas, policies to reverse this deforestation, and, above all, employment, basic services, etc., and we rarely hear a single word when it comes to the prevention and extinction of fires, and it has a very simple check. If you overlap the map of the burned areas in the last few years with the map of the abandoned areas, they match a very high percentage. So also, although we understand that what we have to do is a structural change, we present this series of measures, some of which are short-term but, above all, think about the medium and long-term in this country-wide vision. At least, if you want to give a show of goodwill, and to say that to talk about land management in a ten-minute debate, I agree with that issue; and to talk about rural depopulation, it's not worth a ten-minute debate, well, okay; but we've been trying to put these debates on the table for many years, and you're systematically denying it. Give a show of goodwill and approve of a series of measures that are totally simple. Because what reason will it be to explain that they will be denied, for example, to the point of the motion that speaks of the elaboration of the Pladiga? Because I think it's a fairly basic issue, where you've had enough time to think about it, to say that the study committee has to examine whether the Pladiga has been introduced late or is presented soon. Well, I think it's evidence that four days before, when it's been failing years and years, and years and years that are practically useless. Nor can they now be positioned on such basic issues as paying the necessary attention to damaged animals, actively collaborating with the municipalities. They have some weight to say that these issues have to be discussed in the follow-up committee. There are measures that cannot wait for this committee, and the study committee has to be — as it said — to move forward and not just to paralyze us. And I'm going to finish, but obviously we won't believe anything at all, of speeches or announcements, until the political leaders change, because if they don't stop Ángeles Vázquez and Fernández Couto, they won't serve anything they say at all, because there are political leaders. Fernández Couto has had 17 years of failed policies, and in order to put in place other policies we obviously need other politicians.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u105	Good morning, President. Members of the House. Prior to the motion, as my colleagues have done, I commit myself, as a member of the Socialist Party, to the state pact against gender violence, and I promise to work for and to improve and enrich the same from collective and individual. [[Applause]] Well, coming into question, today we bring here a motion that, at great proportions, coincides with that of the Bloc and that of En Marea, having as a guide a common concern, which we understand is also the concern of this House as is the concern of society in general. We're either talking about the prevention and extinction of fires and various aspects related to land and forest use management. It is true that many of the aspects that we are going to play here today, which we are bringing here on this motion, will be — or do we understand they will be — the items on the agenda of the newly set study committee. But this circumstance — which coincides or ceases to coincide — is not an obstacle to getting into the matter; let us take it as an introduction to that commission that has just been created. So, we're not going to accept the amendment of the People's Party because we don't see incompatibility in going to talk about what we're talking about and putting into effect, debate, etc., on that committee; one thing is not an obstacle to the other. With regard to the motion, in particular, at the first point we ask that the Forest Plan document be sent to the groups for their study and discussion, in order to make the contributions each group considers. And we serve that document to land through the committee if it is going to work quickly. Similarly, we call for the incorporation of the criteria of rational exploitation of the mountain, of sustainability and multifunctionality. We are not worth a vision — as has been said recently from here — strictly productive or only tactically preventive. We must be more ambitious and be able to combine economy, society and the environment. We can't be more talking about something so important and transcendent to the country without putting ourselves to work, especially when we all know that there's been a document that's been waiting for six months waiting for the debate to fit its current needs. We must be able to reach a country agreement, a forest plan with strong social support, or it will not be such a plan to meet those goals that we all want. When we talk about the change that needs the policies of clustering forests, we're referring to one of the grueling needs for the management of these forest uses. If the current model, sophor, reflects a failed model, we'll have to be able to redirect these policies to more operating models like uxfor. Regardless of whether we change names, which is tested as operational, you will have to rescan it and implement it in the light of new needs. In the same way, we cannot continue with the maximum "let it go, let it go," with regard to the sanctioning procedures in the prevention of fires on private farms; or we can be content with the maximum of passing the responsibilities to the local administration, exclusively carrying the weight of a task that in many cases exceeds the capacity of these municipalities. The Autonomic Administration has to work closely with the site, so in the Accompanying Act we proposed the creation of a mountain protection agency as an element that coordinates efforts and vehicles the aid, and that idea and that project will take it to the Commission. We can't go on handing the Land Bank as a miraculous solution to face one of the big rural evases like the property structure, which is a burden for the reorganization of the rural world, when in reality the budget allocation is still anecdotal. If the Land Bank is fundamental to confronting the disintegration and size of agricultural land strips, just as important it will be for deserting mountain cases, upon which a final attempt must be made to set up the governing bodies so that stakeholders will put the mountain into operation with the help of the Administration. On the other hand, the nuclei protection strips must be a strategic value on which the entire focus of the action should be placed, given the transcendence that is at risk to the population. Our position is that we have to be generous with the meters of what must be the areas of refuge in the face of these high-risk situations. Prevention policies go through, among other things, by putting an interest in the cleanup of these fringes, for which the Self-Government must collaborate directly with the municipalities if we want to see them as a reality and not as an announcement of self-comprehension. Our position is to go back to the measures that were adopted on its day and that the current Government has cancelled and is reluctant to re-edit, when experience advises generous fringes to deal with the fires of a new generation. Hence the repetition that the distances must return to those 100 or 50 meters respectively. And it doesn't matter if at the end it's 45 and 92, that's not going to be the problem, but the generosity of these measures, and so in those fringes, it must be the north for action in these areas where there is such strategic refuge for the security of the population in the face of the threat of fire. Following the firefighting policies, the 2018 Pladiga has to experience profound changes and abandon the cut and paste policy that has presided over the extinction policies in the last years. A substantial element to achieve good fire planning is to present the Pladiga in time, time and shape. A plague that we understand — and we are not going to debate whether February, as the representative of the Block said, we spoke of March at the latest — that must be at the disposal of the groups for their analysis and for their debate and implementation and draw a good plan. As far as prevention work is concerned, we understand that good administrative management is needed to ensure that these jobs are efficient and meet the objective for what they have been designed, the objective they are looking for. In any case, prevention work must not be aimed at beginning with the summer on top. One particular and striking case is the cleaning of neighboring mountains, where repeatedly approvals to start the brush cleaning work and can dance in the summer one year after another, simply due to a problem of mismanagement. It would also be important to improve the system of payments to speed them up and allow the survival of small and medium-sized enterprises, allowing payment to the neighboring communities themselves, for which there will have to be — as it has been in your day — low-interested creto lines for them to be able to cope with the expenses in time and form and that this kind of work does not end up being a greedy bag only for large companies. Speaking of the extinguishing device, one of the key elements to which the different collectives refer is concentration and coordination in a single command to increase their effectiveness. It's just a question of organization; organization and operation that everyone demands. In the same way, we have reiterated in this House through various initiatives the problem of several public service collectives who have inappropriate working conditions of the Administration, as is the case with the three-month discontinuous fixeds, which in their entirety almost reach the thousand highly qualified people, on the other hand, and which have some working conditions that do not allow them to take all the necessary advantage to pursue appropriate prevention policies. If you listen to any of the members of the Extinction Service at the request for training, it is a repeated vindication due to the change, circumstances and new scenarios to which they must face. Training and adequate material is also vital for dealing with those fires of a new generation. Similarly, awareness of compliance with the standards of prevention and control of burns, as well as the dissemination of emergency plans for people living in risk areas, is another of the pillars of a good preventive policy. Finally, these and similar measures, such as the analysis, the debate and the evolution of the fires since 2006 will have to be put on the Commission table, in order to establish a major agreement that meets the needs of the country and has a strong social backing, because if it is not such a plan and time will be lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u106	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have been talking about a matter of great importance to our country, as is the mountain model we want to have, not only for us, but also for our children and our grandchildren. Because, look, forest management has a fundamental component of long-term planning. This is a subject on which our parliamentary group and the Union attach the utmost importance, and also, as I have heard today — I am sure — the opposition groups. The recent wave of fires in mid-October has motivated — among other things, such as questions in the Commission and in plenary, petitions or even the motions we are debating today — the following appearances in parliamentary headquarters, to have an idea of the importance that has been given to them. The councillor of the Middle Rural, who immediately appeared in the Chamber on Tuesday, October 17, when the extinction tasks had not yet been completed. The president of the board, at the 7th of November, that is, before the fire strike had taken place for a month. And even today the presence of Vice President of the Board to talk about the coordination of emergencies, which we had occasion before we heard. No doubt, for us, for our parliamentary group, the presence of the President of the Union marked an important milestone, because in the same — which was made the request itself and for all groups of the opposition —, once the emergencies were overcome, with a balance of more precise damage and with the necessary aid for those already published and processed, the President announced that the conditions were given for a debate with more knowledge and therefore wider and deeper. He signaled — and I want to quote literally what he said —: "Sirs, the hundreds, thousands of Greeks who lived in the first person the anguish of the fires, and above all four families who mourn the loss of a loved one, deserve to be honored in this House with a debate that goes beyond the simple government-opposition." "For my part," said the president, "I am here today with all the will that this Parliament can offer to them and to the whole of Galicia something that is not just another session. We must offer answers to the success, but also answers to the future." You might argue that these are manifestations — as they have already done — empty of content, mere propaganda, more of the same, but the president went further. It has taken up 30 concrete measures in the area of prevention, management and dynamisation. And he didn't talk about imposing them at all, he talked about working them together with you — we'll have a chance to see him. They could also say that we're going to do what they always did -- they said -- that we're going to get past the knee of most without more. Nor can we buy — in this case our parliamentary group — the argument, because besides proposing to work together in these measures, the concern of the opposition groups has also been raised, and a parliamentary committee has been proposed, and has already been set up, to seek a country agreement on forest policy that protects for many years the unit of criterion and the unit of action; this commission was approved by the Speakers' Board on 15 November. In the course of the appearance, the president also marked — not imposed, but proposed — the path that could lead us to this agreement in forest matters. In the area of urgent measures, in the management of biomass in the safety strips, what the president said — especially in the perimeters of the rural nuclei — is that we had the Law of tax and administrative measures as a mechanism to be able to introduce the necessary changes — that must be introduced — before we reach the maximum risk period of 2018. I mean, we can't probably wait for the Commission's conclusions, and if we have to take some urgent action, let's do it through the amendments. He also called on the opposition groups to submit their proposals through amendments to the Law of Measures, with a view to reaching agreements in that area. So, and with that will, our parliamentary group has tabled a total of 20 amendments to the Law on measures related to the management of biomass in the safety strips. In the field of emergencies, at that meeting the President announced the presence of the Vice-President of the Union, who finally took place today. And finally, I also proposed, as I said, the parliamentary committee of study to which we referred earlier, to seek a consensus of forest policy among all parliamentary groups, and of course also with the Union. Within this committee, I proposed parliamentary processing of the review of the Galician Forest Plan that had configured the master lines of our forest sector for the coming decades. I, and our parliamentary group, ask ourselves: do these proposals reflect the President's unequivocal will to reach agreements with opposition groups in the design of our forest policy, that of all? Don't you think that's what they want and wait for the Greeks and the Greeks, precisely that we get to those agreements? What other alternative proposals do you make on that consensus path? It is true that the statements of his spokesmen following the President's intervention showed little conviction about the desire of the Union and our parliamentary group to reach consensus on this matter, but we are firmly resolved — I repeat — that we are firmly determined to take forward the work that has been entrusted to us by the Greek society, which is to make politics to solve the problems of citizens. With this position, I will now comment and explain why we make the amendment that we bring here today to your motions. There are three motions with a range of concrete proposals, measures. In the case of the Bloc and En Marea, each of you presents 14 measures, and I say 14 because, even if they've been 15 since then, we're not going to discuss as a forest policy measure the resignation of the advisor or the CEO. The PSdeG presents 11 measures. They are a total of 39 measures that coincide well between them. In the days following the presence of the president, his spokespersons criticized the 30 measures he proposed to the Council of Galicia. Clearly, Mr. Villares has stated that many of them are already part of Vigilant laws, without the German Government ever to see for their compliance. To us it is surprising, when most of the measures that you propose in the three motions agree with those proposed by the president, and even with some of those we collect in our amendments to the Law of Tax and Administrative Measures. I'm going to give you a brief reminder to see how this statement is substantiated. The need for parliamentary processing of the Forest Plan and the criteria which must incorporate measures 1 and 2 of the Socialist Party, 1 and 2 of the Bloc and measure 1 of the Marea. But that parliamentary process has already been proposed by the President in his presence. The criteria that your lords propose to incorporate into the forest plan are already collected in the guidelines, though Mr. Rivas says they must refuse; but the same criteria you write in your motion are in those guidelines. I also remind you that this parliamentary group has adopted a non-law proposal in Commission 7 in which it urged the Union to follow those guidelines in the review of the Forest Plan. All of you abstained. The proper management of biomass in the safety fringes, especially in the perimeters of the rural nuclei, to which the Block dedicates measures 3 and 4 of its motion and the Galician Socialist Party dedicates measure 6 to it, is also addressed in its entirety in the amendments that are incorporated by the Union into the Law on Measures, Law 3/2007. This is important, Law 3/2007, which is, of course, the Bipartite: prevention and defense against forest fires in Galicia. In addition, this concern about the security line and the management of biomass has caused a good number of amendments both from the Popular Group — 20 — and from the opposition groups. Given the tone of the amendments, especially from some groups, I think that we can reach agreements in this field at the stage of processing them. I want to make a clarification here on a subject where opposition groups are focusing on and which does not correspond to reality. For example, Mr. Sánchez spoke yesterday that our parliamentary group had loaded the entire system designed by the Bipartite in the management of biomass in the safety strips, and that had reduced these strips, pointing out how serious it was to go from 100 meters to 50 metres around the population nucleus. Mr Quiroga also mentioned this. I want to make two precisions. First, that the regulation that follows regulates the management of biomass in fringes is Law 3/2007, which has been modified, it is true, by a very important law, that is the Law of Mount 7/2012, but in matters of procedure, because philosophy is still the same: management of biomass by owners and execution would be subsidiary by the Town Councils. The accusation that the security line has been reduced in the rural nuclei from 100 to 50 meters does not correspond, gentlemen, to reality. How did you talk about this 100-meter strip of the original text? I was talking about 100 meters around the population nucleus. Look, where are those 100 meters measured? Where did it start and end that nucleus? I mean, there was no concretion for fixing the fringe. What has been done, the modification — yes, Mr Rivas — has been to fix the form of measurement, which is the perimeter of the urban soil of the rural and urbanizable core. Even though it has been reduced in nominal terms to the strip, in real terms that strip is extended, because it takes the entire perimeter of the ground. The empowerment of the role of the Land Bank as an essential tool in resizing the Greek agribusiness is collected in its motion; in the Block, at measure 13: coincides with 5 of the Galician Socialist Party and also with 1 of En Marea. But look, this proposal is collected in measures 6, 7 and 8 of which the President put on the table. Among other things, he speaks there of using the Land Bank to get agricultural and forestry polygons. But this same proposal for empowerment — and I know that later they will tell me that we spent little money on the Land Bank — was also collected in the resolution of a non-legislative proposal from the People's Party Parliamentary Group that was discussed in the 7th Commission on July 7th this same year; by the way, with an accepted amendment from En Marea that we all voted in favour except the Bloc, which said that he abstained because he didn't trust us. The recovery of the mountains affected by the fires, which are in the 9th and 10th of the Block and which are on the 12th and 14th of En Marea, has already been announced here by the president. He said in his appearance that in the first 24 hours after the strike, the Board approved the framework decree that provides legal support for aid, and even in the next seven days, a 20 million-euro game for such aid was awarded. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, as the advisor pointed out to them in the interrogation of which these motions are brought about, EUR 7 million has been allocated for land consolidation actions and restoration of burned areas. The monitoring and investigation of forest fires, which are also found in measures 4 and 5 of En Marea, are the measures taken in the speech of the president of 26 to 29, the creation of forest research teams, the creation of surveillance and non-compliance teams, the administrative record of forest fire investigations, the creation of a forest surveillance network through video surveillance cameras. Ladies and gentlemen, no doubt another of the important issues that we will have to address within the Commission is the promotion of the pooling of forest farms for their joint management. In this area, the Group of the People's Parliament and the Group of the European People's Party want to make an effort in the Forest Development Societies, and so we collect it in the measures proposed by the President as 24 and 25, which facilitate the requirements for the constitution of sulphur and include tax cuts to attract entrepreneurial investment in the forest sector. The three parliamentary groups have an impact on the need to recover the luxform, which Mr Quiroga said was very effective and did not come into being. Mr. Rivas will say after we haven't given them the Popular Party. We, ladies and gentlemen, would like you to read them in this sense, for the partial restructurings by individuals collected in the Law on Improvement of the Territorial Structure of Galicia and which are driven in the forest area in the Law of Measures this year 2018. They're forest polygons, they're collected there. As far as the design of the Public Service for the Prevention and Extinction of Fires is concerned, it is clear that the Board and our group defend a model with which you may disagree, but we can also talk about this in the Commission. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we can agree that many of your motions are consistent with the measures proposed by the Union and our parliamentary group. And from that perspective of the will of the Union and of all parliamentary groups to work for our citizens, and along with the contributions of the compatriots in the committee, we should be able to reach consensuss that fall within the conclusions of that study commission. In this sense, our amendment calls for the Commission to take into account, in addition to the measures announced by the Board, all proposals from all groups, both the People's Parliamentary Group and the opposition groups, for the design of a forest policy that enables a profitable, multifunctional and sustainable lot to be achieved, thus contributing to the dynamization of the rural environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u108	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Replica from the authors of the non-legislation proposal, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr González, the proposals made here by three motions from the opposition, you answer with a point that says: The Galician Parliament agrees to study, within the work of the newly created Special Committee on Research and Analysis of Forest Reforms, the proposals of all... [[Murmurs.]] Make proposals here. Make proposals now! Of course, what are we...? [[Applause]] For last morning? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And last morning we'll be back, and so we'll postpone the problem and the discussion. No, no, no. This Parliament, this committee and these motions are for proposals and for discussion, for light. Don't you want light? Do you want a shadow? Of course! No, no. Let's get this straight! [[Murmurs.]] Forest management or mountain management. Hurry up. Because you always use forest management, and then you talk about multifunctional mounts. What are they doing? They speak of 30 measures which are insufficient for us because the problem is structural. You didn't take what we said here. No, no, they don't want to take care of it. You present amendments that will advance this dialogue that you intend to make. I think it's very nice of me that they have and I think the call to dialogue is very good, but dialogue has to prove it. The movement — I repeat — is shown to be on the move. None of the proposals we've made to him have failed me. I had some left to do. I've really had some left to do, of course! I'm afraid we're going to have to have an audit for these auctions of the means of extinction, especially of the air. They've been in question for a long time, not just for the BNG. [[Applause]] It is society that questions the enormous amount of money spent on private media, and an audit is needed. Who bothers the light? The Commission. Do an audit! And, of course, Mr. Fernández Couto's resignation. He's... No, no, of course. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, he's been an entertainer for a long time. Seventeen years in front of a general address... that's all right! But, look, the problem is still another one that affects it. First of all, I will say that we do not make the first amendment that is made to us from the Socialist Group, because, given the background with regard to the observance of the Forest Plan by the PP governments, we do not trust ourselves; we continue untrustworthy. You double... allow the forest plan to be violated... yes, yes, the People's Party, which has been ruling all its life in this country, except for three children of rest, of recreation... of course! [[Murmurs.]] Fuck! All your life, gentlemen, all your life. Oh, my God, don't bother me! Of course, you, who have been ruling all your life, who allow this chaos, now want us to understand that the new forest plan will be otherwise. I'm still asking, where are you going to leave? What kind of forest and mountain reality are you going to leave? Of the four hundred and a thousand hectares occupied by the monospecifics or a new mountain? Tell us where they're going to go to formulate that forest plan. We need to know how we're going to talk about this. Of course, with regard to the municipal firearm brigades, we believe that they must be suppressed by non-operators; and also because they are a political tool given very much to the cacique manipulations of which we all know and we all talk about it all the time. And, please, that's all right! But above all, to revitalize rural life, to re-establish it, to create the conditions for families to settle in which, with their economic and labor activity, they continue with the humanization of the landscape, making the territory manageable. The occupation of rural territory, its habitability and its sustainable use has to do with the decompression of urban settlements and with a smaller impact on the environment. Economic exploitation must be integral; mountain, agriculture and livestock combine together, are interrelated. There's not much possible without agriculture and livestock, and vice versa. Reforms are structural, an amendment to all of PP's erratic policies. Indeed, we are pleased, quite pleased, that you are now beginning to question your policies, because the 30 measures of the President are a principle of my fault, an act of contrition. Yes, sir. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Why haven't you taken those measures before, if the problem has been there for a long time? For a long time, fires have threatened populations. For a long time now we've all seen that it's shoulder-to-shoulder. We all see the eucalyptus on the roads, caramba! That's it, any blind man sees it, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u110	About the PP amendment, what do you say?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u111	On the amendment of the PP — excuse me, Mr President, thank you for your generosity — we hope you will comply with what you want to do, what you just say here, who are going down to reason, who stop reasoning and arguing and consenting.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u112	Thank you. Then accept the amendment. Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u113	It's a joke. Your amendment is a joke to the dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u114	You don't accept it. Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u115	Thank you. Now, first of all, it's interesting the kind of manipulation that the spokesperson for the People's Party has given us, because now it gives us a wonderful explanation why the protection lines have been reduced, that the numbers are not as it seems. So go to the hemerotheque and look at Mr. Feijóo's explanations, which when they decided to take this measure, said that with the current experience, after 2006, when the change was decided, there was no need for such a distance. I didn't say that distance was bigger, I said it was smaller, but I didn't need any more. And if not, they go to the hemerotheque, because that's in many public statements from different newspapers. And they stop lying, because it's pretty ridiculous and we all have memory. And, above all, everything is now registered so that we can see it again. Of course there were many appearances and there were quite a lot of pressure. It would also have to see how many appearances there were if the opposition, and not only the opposition, but all the Greek society, did not claim to give an answer. Quite pathetic was that they refused to speak that Tuesday and Wednesday of the fires, when we all had that situation in mind and decided to keep a full full with total normality. But the problem is not whether there were many or few appearances, the problem is that the answers were totally insufficient and they again speak of the same measures, of the great measures, when we repeat that many were already collected, they were no novelty, and it's also a lie that they want to have dialogue. They come here with a very nice tone — to see if the Commission always has this same conciliator tone — but they don't listen. So, as much as they have a conciliatory tone, if they don't listen and lie, it's pretty hard to reach agreements and pretty hard to believe they really have a desire for dialogue. It is not true that most proposals brought today's opposition were collected by the president himself. It's fake. Not a word from the rural employment plan, not a word from the Pladiga, not a word from the precariousness of the service, etc. We could go on with a lot of the measures, but good. You say the president ratifies many of the measures. All right, so approve. If they've already announced them, then they approve them, and don't come with this amendment that's totally ridiculous, and once again, perhaps, when this focus is no longer at the centre of the political agenda, they're also deciding to back off many of their speeches that they now seem to have assumed. We have to say that, of course, it is not wrong for us to establish this commission. We ask it and it seems fantastic that if you have these debates calmly and with more time and reflection, but obviously there are things that make you distrust your will. Like everything seen today in this debate of motions, which they do in the whole debate always, not only today, but in all their speeches. They don't recognize any kind of political responsibility, and then, in the face of that lack of recognition and self-criticism, we think it's going to be quite difficult for the same political leaders to put in place other different policies. And the third, because you've been in government for many years, and in 2006, when this study commission was opened, which, of course, you boycotted — which we also have memory — they completely ignored the conclusions that had been drawn from this study commission. So let us at least be suspicious of their goodwill, because, really, the only thing that seems to interest them is to slow down and postpone indefinitely this debate, because, if they really had political will, they would approve some today; I don't say all, but they would approve some. You're talking yourself about 39 measures of opposition. Not one of those measures can be approved by the People's Party. That's what they're saying. I don't care exactly what story they sell. What they are saying with their vote is that: the People's Party votes against these 39 measures. As much as you then say wonderful speeches here, in this gallery, it has absolutely nothing to do with what you then do and with the amendments that you make to your own laws. And as I say, they stop limiting the debate, because in all interventions: forest policy, forest policy, forest policy. Yes, let's talk about forest policy, but as we've been saying for a long time, we also have to talk about policies for the country as a whole: land, employment, rural, etc., because otherwise they will continue to put on patches that will not solve anything at all. And, of course, if you want us to believe that they have a desire for dialogue, the political leaders will immediately cease to be here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u117	They have to understand that there are many reasons for a certain scepticism, and within the opposition groups we find that, on one occasion after another, the initiatives we present in this issue are systematically rejected. So, starting from that reality, I repeat that they have to understand the initial scepticism we have in our case, without referring to the other groups. We have already said that debate in the House and in the Commission is perfectly compatible, and there is no need to divert the debate on something so important that it concerns the Greek society as a whole. Referring to some of the previous interventions, I would also add that the movement shows itself walking, when we put ourselves in it. So we want to start with the idea that we will go constructively, that the Commission will be really decisive. We understand that the moment is delicate and we are going with that totally constructive spirit to try to reach an agreement that really puts the foundation of the solution to these problems: mountain, forest, fire, rural, which are already at the center of the focus. We also think if you're going to play without any cutbacks on any topic that the Commission takes, without any kind of veto, and without any kind of prejudice to analyze them. As for the particular motion, which we present here, which if we try to get rid of with that amendment of "well, we don't talk and we'll talk," I repeat again that we don't see any sense of it. With regard to what the PP spokesperson of measure 6 said, which reflects the problem of the distance of the safety strip with respect to the population, which for us is fundamental, because it is very likely that philosophy is maintained, but what is clear is that the measures have changed. Let's reiterate that it's not a matter of five or six meters up or down. In any case, those that currently exist are not enough and there is a need to be generous in this kind of strip, since they're going to be a refuge, they're going to be a safe haven in the face of danger situations. With regard to what we were criticized by the Land Bank, I think it is obvious to everyone that it is an appropriate tool and mechanism, and what we need is not just an budget, but a political backing for it to be effective. It's not just a matter of putting "x" euros on top of it, but of believing that this is a tool that will help us. We, in our exhibition, didn't talk about uxfor being a model to follow together, but that was a model that in the short time it had to walk, with 45 societies that began to create, had a philosophy that might have to be resumed. We'll talk or debate at the table, but we understand that's the line. Not the strict model of uxfor, but the philosophy that presided over that type of mechanic. With regard to other matters, it is of course necessary to expand them. We betrayed a catalogue, but that catalogue was incomplete and it's much wider. In fact here -- and we don't agree with the BNG on the issue of municipal brigades, if we agree that we need to reformulate them from top to bottom, give them a total turn, because they have to be thought of for prevention work, and a prevention work throughout the year, not like a group of workers who would get better within the concept of social mattress or client network. So this needs a profound transformation, and as in other matters, we think that we must open up to that committee, or wherever it may be, for the debate. And if they had to be suppressed and put in place other mechanisms, we would also be in their favor. We believe that this time the Forest Plan does have to have an executive character, but it has to have an obligation that it did not have in 1992, which showed its inability to plan and order the land uses and the forest masses of this country. Nothing else. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u118	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. After the debate on motions was closed, we proceeded to the vote. Voting that we will do independently. We begin by voting, firstly — close the doors, please — the motion of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block Galego. We vote. G.P.'s motion to vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the management of the mountain, the prevention and fight against forest fires and the management of the Director General of Forest Management with regard to the wave of fires. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 37; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u119	I have forgotten to say that in this motion amendments were not accepted, both by the Socialist Group and by the People's Parliamentary Group. We now vote on the motion for a Parliamentary Group on the Environment, which did not accept the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of forest fire prevention and fight and management carried out by the Ministry of the Rural Environment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u120	Finally, we voted on the motion by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which did not accept the amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. G.P.'s motion to vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. José Antonio Quiroga Díaz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the prevention of forest fires. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u121	We suspended the session until 16 o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u122	Good afternoon. We resumed the session with agenda item 4, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and 13 other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union to transfer to the Government of the State the need to amend the General Law on Social Security to improve the situation of those affected by early retirement
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u123	There is an amendment to this non-law proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and a self-amendment by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u124	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u125	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. If today we move to this Parliament with no powers in the public pension system, this LNP, which is from Confedetel, the State Confederation of Associations and Federations of Prejudice and Retirement of Telephony, is because we support its struggle to bring to the Government of the State the need to dignify public pensions, so serve this parliamentary procedure to recognize the effort of the Confedetel board of directors, especially its Galician section, and support its organizational dynamics in defending a public pension system. By the way, Confedetel is here, he is in this Parliament. He is not in the rostrum because we are penalized to our group for expressing citizenship yesterday in this House the discomfort about policies that affect them. We regret that this falls on other people, other citizens, who come here today to defend decent pensions as well. We certainly invite all parliamentary groups to meet with Confedetel, instead of doing so in the rostrum, to be able to do so in the En Marea room, where they are following this plenary. Well, this claim brought by the collective is not partial, since it benefits everyone as a society, because Confedetel defends public pension systems, and in this sense it should be remembered that, both the supplements and the non-contributory benefits, of which we are going to deal with in this LNP, are part of the same social protection system that the State has an obligation to ensure, both in accordance with the Declaration of Human Rights and in accordance with the Spanish Constitution itself, that the PP, of course, systematically violates, especially in relation to social rights. We remember here Article 50, where it is said that public authorities will ensure, through appropriate and periodically updated pensions, the economic adequacy of citizenship in the third age. Where does this economic capacity remain with the 2013 pension reform? And we use it to say that this universal right to a decent pension is only possible with public pension systems, which are viable, despite the propaganda interested in private funds. We are therefore faced with a political and non-economic problem. On the one hand, we want to point out, before starting the specific claim for this GNP, that the public pension system in the Spanish state is 10.7%, when the eurozone averages 12.2% of GDP. Overall, the reality is that all Spanish public expenditure that can be considered as social protection is lower than the EU average, like fiscal pressure. The tax pressure in the Spanish State in 2014 was 34.3% of GDP, compared with 40% of the European Union. That is why — we have reiterated — it is not a matter of resources. In addition, we remember that the deficit in the public pension system is a political decision when, for example, a job reform is adopted which dramatically reduces contributions. And we bring this introduction because we cannot accept the interesting report on the inability of public pension systems, nor can we accept — as has already been said in the Commission — that it is not feasible to reduce the penalty for early retirements as this GNP calls for, because European societies have the volume of production sufficient to guarantee a decent life for all, also for people who are following this debate in this Parliament and also for people who are increasingly looking forward to life. So to defend pensions is to defend democracy, because those who decide that public pension systems are not viable — with numbers called, by the way — are institutions that are not democratically controlled. We would like to point out that in this proposal not of specific law, and in this framework of attack on public pension systems, Confedetel is, in addition to defending generally decent pensions, that in the case of early retirement if conditions of access are improved, claims, of course, that go contrary to the direction of the Rajoy Government, which in 2012 committed itself to tightening up the conditions of access to early retirement. For, as this LNP says, various labour and social security rules in the legal system establish gradual and flexible retirement systems, allowing for anticipation in the same way with the corresponding economic gap affecting early retirement and retirement. Let's also take into account that there are various modalities, both early retirement and pre-retirement, which are more regulated conditions between company and worker. This is important, because not all early retirements are voluntary. Thus, the biasing processes were common both in industrial conversions of the eighties and in the so-called resizing processes of large companies since the nineties, and we included telephonic privatization here, called "liberalization of the telecommunications sector". So, in this way, biasing has turned out to be an exceptional formula for times of crisis to become a template adjustment mechanism, which is what happened on Telephonic, because it even happened in companies with high profits. In the case of this company, it also happens that it has put too much zeal in adapting to European standards, moving forward and causing a hard and hasty cut of its staff since 1994. In mid-1998 Telefónica unilaterally put in place an extinction of extraordinary employment contracts under this biased mode, in which most affected were mutualists, and I would like to remind you, in addition, that this occurs at the time when the famous Stock Options appear — I assure you they call the People's Party — by which managers could obtain millionaire surpluses for the purchase of shares of the company itself. You can then say that the extinction of hidden employment, this collective undercover dismissal, was done to increase the benefits of these actions. So for these workers -- and I've finished this second part of the exhibition -- Confedetel had a concrete struggle, because there were about 10,000 workers who, after 2014, saw their conditions agreed to with Telephonic and applied to them a tax exemption less than the pact, so they were lost about 2,000 euros on average a year. And it should be borne in mind — and this I would like to stress specifically in this Parliament — that these are people with long-term insurance careers, which, in many cases today, as in Galicia in many cases, support children, grandchildren or grandchildren with their pensions, because pensions in Galicia, the lowest in the state, are still serving as a minimum income, and have already contributed these people quite a lot to the Social Security box during their lifetime. Finally, from this specific reality of the people who had to give up their career at their best, Confedetel's general struggle is to improve the living conditions of people affected by early retirements, reducing the impact of reducing coefficients, taking into account — I repeat again — the increase in life expectancy. And I repeat, because the increase in life expectancy is a triumph of humanity and cannot be a penalty. For this reason, they've been presenting... yes, does anything happen to the increase in life expectancy? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, it has been reduced during the crisis for the first time throughout the history of humanity, and something will have responsibility. They presented this LNP in several autonomic parliaments, requesting that the reduction coefficients to which they quoted 40 years or more should not be applied, and that with thirty-five years quoted the reduction coefficients should be less severe. He understands Confedetel that the factors associated with early retirement are disproportionate and excessive, taking into account the life expectancy of retired people. If a worker decides to increase his retirement access by one year, he can see his pension reduced by 8% for the rest of his life. This claim coincides with a bill that has tabled in Marea at the Congress of Deputies and which is, by the way, vetoed by the Government; a bill that also defends the recovery of the ordinary retirement age at the age of 65, which advocates facilitating retirement since the 61s, or which defends the rise in the minimum interprofessional wage. It's vetoed by the State Government. These claims coincide with the fact that this bill says: "In any case, early retirement itself is subject to the application of reducing coefficients which prove very penalizing to the content of the resulting pension, since it does not take into account that its impact permanently and permanently affects the pension for life." I repeat again: the increase in life expectancy is a conquest of humanity and it cannot entail a penalty, as, by the way, it is also a criminalization the so-called sustainability factor, which calculates the payment of pension based on this life expectancy. It's all an aggression to the working class, and here again a aggression to women above all, that we have the highest life expectancy and we have worse contributions throughout life. Thus, the 2013 pension reform tightens the requirements for access to retirement. In order for retirees and retirees to apply the current conditions before the publication of this royal decree to have access to retirement before 1 January 2019. What's wrong? As Confedetel points out, this temporary limitation applies exclusively to the age of the worker, and has no effect on the duration of the contribution career, so, in this way, in the case of people dismissed from Telephonic, the new legal framework penalizes those born after 1958, resulting in different conditions of access to retirement people who had subscribed to the same ERE. So we can say that we are faced with a situation of discrimination on the basis of age, as discrimination will also be — as OECD acknowledges — that Spanish pensions will be of misery to those born from the 1960s, in a recent report, predicting inequality in old age. I don't know what's wrong with this bill. And I don't think it's funny, because everything points out that we're going to walk towards a massive impoverishment of public pensions if we don't change the system, if we don't guarantee the viability of the public system, which, as I say, is viable, despite the propaganda of the big ones... It's impossible to talk here!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u126	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u127	They're listening to people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u128	No, I'm sorry, I'm not calling anyone's attention, I'm just asking for silence, but I'm asking for one side and the other. But, of course, there's a murmuring in the room, actually, and there's even hearing problems as well. Yes, yes, there are hearing problems, possibly because the microphone may not be well placed. I mean keep quiet because it's the only thing I'm asking, I'm not calling anyone's attention. Then, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u129	Finally, and I repeat that you are listening to the people belonging to Confededetel, people with long-running contributions who have been affected by a massive undercover dismissal, who bring a non-law proposal that seeks to improve the public pension system. In addition, we added a self-amendment to note this circumstance. We understand that this debate is not a cause for ridicule and we understand that it is not an argument about the alleged inability of these changes, because what needs to be facilitated is the improvement of the system's income.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u130	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u131	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We want from the Socialist Group, first of all, to greet the members of Confedetel who accompany us today, even if it is not in this Chamber, from the room they are in, and also to value their efforts and work for the public pension system. This is a work shared by the Socialist Party. What we are going to do today, voting in favour of this initiative, is to reaffirm the Socialist Party's commitment — as I told you — to a public system of quality pensions which guarantees a present and a future worthy of the citizens and citizens of this country. It is true that this initiative has already been discussed in Commission 5th, an initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block. The Socialists voted in favour and, as I said, today we will again, explaining also, at the end of my speech, why the amendment we included. When we talk about the reaffirmation of commitment, before Mr Tellado is expected to speak of President Zapatero — because we think that a person who was President of the Government deserves to be called this way, and of any political colour, not only the socialist presidents, seems to us the least — I remember that President Zapatero, while he ruled, has risen by 30% the pensions, has increased by 50% the minimum pensions and by 90% the widow's and dependent children's pensions. And yes, Mr. Tellado -- I know you're going to say it -- he frozen the pensions but frozen the maximums. As this debate is repeated, that's why I'm looking forward to it, because I don't have a replica later. It is also true that in 2010 it updated the pensions 1.3 % to compensate for the IPC. And it's also true that since the People's Party's arrival, we're in a sort of cross in the middle of the desert, where there's only a 1% increase. The situation is so worrying that by 2017, at the end of this year, 9 million pensioners will lose about 2 points of purchasing power by increasing inflation. The inflation target, if we reach 2%, in 10 years our pensioners are going to be 15% poorer, no less. [[Applause]] But who's talking about this initiative? This initiative certainly talks about people like some or some of those who accompany us today, who started their 14-year-old career and, in most cases, they were able to combine their apprenticeship jobs — by setting an example — with their studies, studying and training at night. To many of these workers it turns out that they've been driven by the crisis train and cars from the reforms of the People's Party these past few years in the form of clippings. It's no wonder we know the data according to which many unemployed people are unprotected. All of this happens after a long working life of people to whom the economic crisis itself and the reforms they later came drove out of the labour market. They won't be easy to catch, they're not having it. There's a pond in their working life that leads them to pensions that in many cases are below the poverty line itself. Currently in Spain 100% of the pension is paid for 65 years and 36 years, but, ladies and gentlemen, if a person is under 65 years and 40 years of age, he suffers a penalty throughout his life that can reach up to 30% in cases where people find themselves very close to that retirement. These retirements haven't given them a lump, they're people who got these benefits on the basis of effort and a lot of work -- as I said at the beginning of the intervention -- from very young, and after spending some time on unemployment, many of them at the age of 61 didn't get any more remedy than retireing, losing about 24%. Most of these early retirements — as I said — are not for whimsical, they are not for greed, they are people who are expelled from the labour market, and from the Socialist Group we think we should, that we have to protect these people. With regard to the amendment — after this debate has already been held in Commission 5th — the People's Party made it one of the obstacles to approving it that it had not been part of the Toledo Pact. Today, Mr Tellado — as I know and as in the Socialist Group we know that you are a person of consensus and your group too — we include this amendment to circumscribe it to the Toledo Pact, so that you can vote in favour, as did the People's Party at the Madrid Assembly and in many other parliaments to solve this problem of reducing coefficients, which we hope today to reach an agreement on a subject — I repeat — which is very important and crucial. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u133	Good afternoon. I also want to begin my intervention by greeting the Confedetel people who are following us in this intervention. People who have contacted the groups represented in this Parliament of Galicia to move us an initiative and to claim something that the BNG seems fair and reasonable to us, which is equal treatment with regard to their pensions after their biases. An initiative that the BNG set up and transferred to us by Confedetel, which we took to the Commission on November 5th, and which unfortunately was not approved, since the People's Party voted against it. Again the BNG seems reasonable to us that, after a very long working life of 35, 40 and even more years, people who have left the skin working, as a result of the situation of the late 1980s and 1990s, of conversions of public enterprises, ship conversions and other kinds of issues, have been forced to access early retirements. They were not early retirements of their own will, but they were the result of the economic situation of the companies they were working on. The claim of this collective is because they are being applied by reducing coefficients in a 1967 legislation, which was amended in 1997 and then in 2001. Three different types of coefficients are being applied: 8%, which is being applied to this collective; then 7% with the 1997 change; and 6% with the 2001 change. There are three categories of early retirements that, despite having quoted all 35 or more years and having been applied to early retirements because of the termination of the employment contract and because of reasons beyond their will, receive three different treatments on the inside of their pensions. We are talking about a collective in the Spanish state of around 331,000 people, and they demand that the German Parliament take its side, that the Greek Parliament support its demands and transfer to the Spanish Government and Congress of Members who proceed to make a legislative amendment so that the reduction coefficients are applied to them in the same way as the workers in the same circumstances as they do. They believe that the decisions that have been made have been abusive by Social Security; that Social Security is taking advantage of this forced early retirement situation, and that that benefit is not taking it away from other later early retirements. Of course, they transfer this request that they also transferred to other parliaments of other autonomous communities, which were voted in favour of other parliaments by political organizations of different colors. And that must be the case, there must be a unanimous observation by all groups that abusive reduction coefficients are being applied to them, which, for example, in the Congress of Deputies in 2006, has already been approved, also unanimously, a non-legislative proposal that called for measures to improve this situation. Unanimity in which the People's Party was included, and I hope, Mrs Vázquez Verao, that today the People's Party will rectify and be able to vote in favour of this initiative. Of course, it was surprising that he held his position on this issue in Commission 5 on 9 November, Mr Tellado. He made a sob there demonstrating that he was very concerned about the viability of the pension system. That it was inconceivable that an initiative such as this without economic memory had taken place. That we betrayed an initiative without knowing what it cost, how much I was going to suppose for the state's ark. That this was a real irresponsibility and that we had to be very aware of where the money was put. It is clear that the People's Party has no such concern when it comes to putting billions of euros into the bank, more than 70,000 million euros of which will practically be recovered only a small part. But there the People's Party has no problem. When it comes to defending the rights of the working class, when it comes to defending the rights of people who have worked their whole life — 35, 40 or more — there they are already repairing. There they have repairs to see how public money is spent. It's a different measuring rod, Mr. Tellado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u135	... Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, really curious and persistent in time. It's always the same, when it's for the top ones, they have no mirage, whatever it takes, we urgently approve everything we need; now, when it's for the working class, there we have to be very measured! BNG will vote in favour of this initiative, which is the only thing it does to demand equal treatment. Something that seems logical, equal treatment. That there have been some legislative changes, that the same questions have been applied to them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u137	Mr. Tellado said that this was an initiative to defend particular interests and that in Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u139	...we must defend the general interests.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u141	We defend the particular interest of the working class always, always, always.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u143	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. It is clear that the BNG has already assumed that it will no longer rule anywhere in the future, so it is capable of making proposals without the least of its interest in the future and the sustainability of the system, which is a key issue. Look, Mrs Prado, the national pension system is a contributory system, a system of solidarity. And, of course, the best way to defend a public pension system is to make it sustainable and viable. You know nothing about that, they don't care about anything at all, but the national pension system is a cash box where resources come in and out of resources, and therefore the sustainability of that common box is fundamental in order to be able to speak seriously about it. You come here, just like you went to the Commission last week, with initiatives left. You're doing well with collectives, but the truth is, you don't even know if what you're proposing is viable, if possible, and that's called demagogy. But for your group -- which is 6, they already fit into Renault Scenic and still fit Bildu's advisor because he has 7 squares -- it's reasonable. Therefore, I in that little sense can tell you. You're actually talking about a particular matter, and we're forced to talk about the global problem, the general problem, the general interest. Mrs. Blanco, it's funny if you'll answer me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u146	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u147	...before I even talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u148	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u149	I didn't expect to tell you about Zapatero, you're the one who insists, and you're right, because Zapatero was the only one who frozen pensions in our country. The only president of the government was Zapatero. In fact, Zapatero was the only President of the Government who proposed to extend the retirement age from 65 to 67. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Zapatero arrived in 2004, there were 2 million unemployed in Spain; he left the Government in 2011 with 5 million unemployed. Three million, that's Mr. Zapatero's legacy, of which you are very proud. Look, to me, to us, to our group, it doesn't seem realistic to tell the Greeks that they're going to work less years, that they're going to collect higher pensions and that the system will continue to be sustainable. It doesn't seem reasonable, so we don't lie to people. We are concerned about the sustainability and viability of the national pension system, and the fact is that in the last 40 years of democracy in Spain life expectancy has increased ten years. So today we're talking about life expectancy in the 80s or 82s, that's reality, and we need to increase the number of social security contributors so that the national pension system can be viable, be sustainable and be intergenerationally supportive. And not taking that question as the basic thing to be able to really talk about this problem, about the problems of the telephonics, is to lie to people and not to speak seriously about this problem. Therefore, what you refer to, indeed, was approved an amendment to the legal regime of retirements with Law 27/2011, and subsequently to Decree Law 5/2013. What did we do? Indeed, to delay the retirement age from 65 to 67, with a progressive clause, with a transitional period up to 2027. And why? Because they need more taxpayers to maintain the national pension system. If we follow their instructions, we will break the national pension system. What did we do with this reform? Encourage those people who want to keep working and want to prolong their working life. Why? Because we need more taxpayers, of course yes!, that's the reality. You can do whatever you want; you keep telling people that the system supports everything, but the truth is it's going to be your irresponsibility to break this system. What did we do? Set reducing coefficients, of course, yes, for those who retire before the legally established age, for all Spaniards. And why? Because they need more taxpayers, because they need more taxpayers, something that, by the way, with previous legislation, was not possible. What did we do? Retire partial retirement. For what? So those who get to retirement age and want to keep working, and so they can expand their retirement pension, can do it. And why? Because we need more taxpayers. It's the only way to keep this system alive. And, of course, we ask them for an economic memory. Look, you practice populism, which is telling people what people want to hear, but it doesn't bother them very much the reality of things. And then he takes advantage of the En Marea Group to self-amend himself. They present the initiative that this group transfers to them and they add an amendment self-responsive to themselves — Mrs Vázquez Verao had no opportunity to speak of her own self-responsiveness — in which they propose, in addition to all this, to derogate the reform of the labour market, to recover the old retirement age, to recover early retirement mechanisms... and to charge the system. Of course, it doesn't count on us for this. And of course, everything we do has to do within the framework of the Toledo Pact, of course we do. What is the philosophy of the Toledo Pact? Take out the pensions of the party debate and that we all worry about achieving a sustainable model over the next decades — decades! — because this system has to be kept in time. That's what we want. Look, I want to make an amendment in you on this matter. We have drawn up a common text for us all, in which, by appealing to the Toledo Pact — as the Socialist Party now recognizes — not last week's commission — if we look at the specific situation of this collective. And once studied, with an economic memory — of course — on the table, we see the possibility of meeting their demand. But for blank checks that pay attention to the national pension system, when it has to be a system of solidarity, contribution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u150	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u151	...able and sustainable in time, of course it doesn't contain with us. Accept this amendment in voice, let us draw up here at the time of the vote a text which contemplates sending the matter to the Toledo Pact and that the Covenant should study it, and we shall of course vote in favour. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u152	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u153	Caray!, in order to remove the subject of pensions outside the party debate may have begun at the end. You literally said, "We need more taxpayers." Well, what happens when there are more people today in the Spanish state than when the Reserve Fund had passed? What's wrong? There's no. They fall less because there are low wages, they fall less because they have precariousd the labour market with their job reform. So let's see who's loading the system! In addition, it is a matter of relating only the rate of contributors/pensionists. It does not take account of productivity, it does not take account of the rate of activity, it does not take account of the type of employment which is increasingly precarious, nor does it take account of the impact of the submerged economy, and you, on the other hand, do not act rigorously is to pursue, for example, tax fraud. That's not what they're talking about. Anyway... You talked about boxes, too. Who dilapidated the Reserve Fund? The People's Party. True, the fund is to be used during the crises, but the problem is that it persists, that deficit persists because the labour market has been hampered. We're talking about something that worries me. I'm worried that I used that tone during the intervention, as you did in committee, because we're talking about pensions in Galicia, in a place where we have the lowest pensions in the state and of what, as I said, not only pensioners depend, but in a third of the homes in Greece, the only income comes from these public benefits. We're talking about a serious matter. We took that proposal to find a deal between all the groups, make it conditional on talking to the people we have in the room today, and see if we can achieve a consensus framework, but we're not going to withdraw our self-amendment. We can vote for points, but let's keep it, because it is essential to bet on a public pension system, which, as I said, is the only one that guarantees decent pensions. And we're not going to charge the system, because in our bill we also raise the minimum interprofessional wage, and that's not what they're talking about either. To talk about pensions in Galicia — I want to say it, I think we have mentioned all the speakers during the explanatory statement — is to talk about women as well. Women are the ones most affected by this tightening of the conditions of access to retirement that the People's Party has caused. And they're more affected, among other things, because they contribute less during their working life, but also because of that increase in life expectancy. It's just that they strive to increase life expectancy by penalizing, and not, it's a step forward for humanity. It's a reality; but instead of improving the system's income with both decent employment and also seeing the tax route, you relate only to taxpayers and pensioners, and that's impossible. We welcome, however, that proposal to seek an agreement, but of course we will not give up or we will never give up defending a decent public pension system, which is viable. It's not charging the system, it's defending it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u154	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de la Concepción Burgo López and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, on the launch by the Government of Galicia of the means necessary to enable the free access of citizenship to all the cathedrals that received at any time economic approaches of a public nature
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u155	No amendments were tabled. To formulate this non-law proposal, Mrs Burgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. First of all, I, Concepción Burgo, commit myself, as a member of the Socialist Party, to the State Covenant against Gender Violence and promise to work for and to improve and enrich the same from collective and individual. [[Applause]] Having said this, which is fundamental, we want to talk in part about budgets, as we were talking yesterday, and also about access to culture, which does not guarantee Mr. Feijóo's government. We're talking about budgets. Culture budgets are the budgets that have been most backward since 2009 from all over the Government; 55% less from culture budget. But if we look at the games dedicated to cultural heritage, to its protection, maintenance and value-added and investment chapters, chapters VI and VII, we see that these budgets still have a further 57%, a further 57%. At this point, there are about 7 million destined for the heritage of our country and all the museums. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that this is 3 million less than those who dedicate themselves to the City of Culture. And most of these scarce funds are directed at the rehabilitation and maintenance of heritage assets, the assets of heritage that are held by the Catholic Church. It's the only private owner who gets help without any problems, and I'm telling you because our experience is that every time we ask for help to save or to keep a castle, a tower, San Fernando barracks, in Lugo, the Pasatemp Park, in Betanzos, they tell us that there can't be, that there's not enough funds and that, in addition, public resources cannot be directed to private owners. The fact that most of the Heritage funds go to the Church is easy to see on the same website as the Council of Culture. Between the Feder funds and the Non-Religious Heritage Council, they are dedicated to the wall, to the archaeological heritage, 2 million euros, and to religious heritage, monasteries and several cathedrals, 5,700,000 euros. That's the difference, and we don't know in this budget how much the Church is about to fix this heritage. And it must be remembered that the Catholic Church has important tax privileges, such as not paying VAT, receives part of the country's IRPF revenues, it's estimated that at least 250 million euros a year, and it has other types of aid and subsidies from all administrations. We are not against the fact that heritage funds are destined for the Catholic Church, for one reason, because Galicia's own historical evolution in the last, at least, ten centuries and its economic and social structure has led one of the largest owners of the heritage of this country to be the Catholic Church, and therefore it is logical that we help preserve that heritage, which in addition to the Church is everyone's. But we believe that this collaboration has to be reciprocal, that collaboration cannot come only from one side and not from another; and above all from the scarce resources. The recent decree of constitution of the Joint Committee of Galicia-Catholic Church is a very appropriate time to lay down the obligations of both parties, the obligations of the Public Administration, the obligations of the Council of Galicia, and the obligations of the Catholic Church. A missed opportunity, because the truth is the Church's obligations don't appear, the Church's role is undrawn, it doesn't come true at all; they're good intentions, but there's nothing else, nor even what will be percent of the Church's economic effort towards the Council for the maintenance of its heritage. It is true that in the ad hoc agreements signed by the Council of Culture with each of the bishops of Galicia in any of them, one says how much he contributes to the Church. It says what will be done and how much the Council provides. It fulfils the Church's obligations, which are generally simply to let the necessary works be done for rehabilitation, for maintenance, for what needs to be done and nothing more. How much do you make every time the Council rehabilitate a good of the Catholic Church? We don't know, it's not said anywhere. And right now we've found that three of the five cathedrals that exist in Galicia, that of Mondoñedo, that of Tui and that of Ourense, charge an entrance in order to visit them, because you can only enter free of charge when there are liturgical acts. Logically, for a bit of education, no tourist should get to see and comment on any of the works of art that are inside while there is a liturgical act. These three cathedrals charge between 5 and 3 euros per person, and the excuse to charge is to offer an audio guide or offer a guided tour. You want or you don't want the visitor, you don't care, you have to pay for it, and the excuse is that this audio guide is given. These three cathedrals, like the others that don't charge, have received in the past and are receiving important public funds from Galician Union: Mondoñedo's, 1.2 million euros, Ourense's, around 1 million euros, Tui's, Junta's and Funding funds, for a little less than a million euros. All of them, of course, had contributions in the past, and remember that we had 7 million for the museums, for the heritage, and, for the rehabilitation of the heritage, 3 million a year in the budgets of the Galician Union. Of course we agree that the cathedrals and the Church are covered by additional services, such as audio guides, guided tours, visits to the decks, visits to the diocesan Museum or cathedral, which is a tradition already extended, and there would also be a lot of arguments to justify it, but what we do not agree with is that to enter the temple you have to pay an entrance, when the citizens are putting the money public to rehabilitate these buildings. At least, the Galician Union would have to ensure the right of citizenship to enter and to know the most significant heritage and meaning of the Church. But in addition, there is another element to consider. Since these three cathedrals cannot, except to go to Mass, enter without paying to visit them, they are violating Galician Cultural Heritage Act, Law 5/2016, which, in its article 48, as it said, requires that all BICs should be visited free at least four days a month; something that the whole House sounds a lot, even though it is only because we debated many times that Meirás Passover, which was a BIC, had to open its doors four days a month. Well, this is exactly the same. I am very concerned that the Culture Council had not noticed in this situation and that the owners of several BICs, who are failing to comply with their obligation, continue to give them public funds. They didn't notice that, they didn't do anything, and they keep providing public funds for rehabilitation. It also draws much attention that when we talk here about uncorrected breaches of the Heritage Law, we always speak either of the Franco family or of the Catholic Church, which is truly curious and meaningful. Therefore, we believe it is unacceptable that the Church is charging for visiting goods that have received considerable public funds, that is violating the Heritage Law, and we believe that the Board must take action and find a way for citizens to exercise their right to enter a cathedral — not a museum, not a cathedral museum, but a cathedral museum — especially when they receive public funds. Either you do this or you have to stop directing public funds over there, and then yes, if you don't have public funds, you can do whatever you want. The limits and obligations of the Church must be clear, they must be clear and, of course, they should be not only clear to the Church but also, for a policy of transparency, for the rest of the citizenship. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u158	Good afternoon. It's too bad Mr. Tellado isn't here. He had to be recognized that the stage had been pretty good and that perfect was absolutely the role of a fool in this House. But let's... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u159	Mrs. Rodil, you are an honourable Member who is not used to saying this kind of thing. Yes, I know her well and observe her path. [[Interruptions.]] She's not a Member who's characterized by that. [[Murmurs.]] So I ask you to remove that expression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u160	Can I replace it with another one?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u161	If you're clever, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u162	I'd say clown, but I suppose not, either, so clown...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u163	No, no, no, no. Leave the thing. I beg you to withdraw it. It must be a House that is characterized by not saying, and you are a Member who does not usually do so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u164	Do as you consider.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u165	Thank you. Then we removed her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u166	I've already said what to say. Let's go to the initiative. From the BNG we will support the non-legislative proposal presented by the Socialist Party today. I think the reasons have been perfectly set out in his speech by the spokesman of the Socialist Party. We also do not agree that it is limited or restricted to entry, access, through a price simply, by entering to visit a property that is part of this country's heritage, which has also been catalogued as a universal heritage, while the North Way, in the case, for example, one of the cathedrals mentioned here, which is the cathedral of Mondoñedo, which is the one that recently, in addition, has incorporated to that trend — let's call it so — to collect entry by access to it, something that has already been doing others, as has already been reported here, as is the case of Ourense or Tui. And we also agree that we cannot limit that access or restrict that access to a heritage asset, in addition, when it receives important public funds for its conservation, as it has already been said. In the case of Mondoñedo — also mentioned — more than one million euros, in particular 800,000 for the repair of the deck and 280,000 for the house of the countess. So looking for information in relation to these cases where entry is restricted through the collection of an entrance—i.e. redundancy—to visit the good, he read that a priest in Mondoñedo Cathedral was lagging away that there were people entering the cathedral who didn't want to contribute with a alms to ensure the maintenance of those costs that he has for the Church, in this case, this building, such as electric light, for example, lighting, or cleaning up the cathedral itself. And we were somehow inspired by this person's statements, which do not complain so much about his tax exemptions, as was also commented on at the beginning of the intervention by the spokesman of the Socialist Party. And I mean not only, or we mean not only, at least in the BNG, those tax exemptions that the Church has with respect to those places of worship, but also others that are very profitable in economic terms, because they are profitable spaces that are owned by the Catholic Church, such as parking lot. This is the case of the parking lot in the city of Lugo, in the center of the city of Lugo, so it doesn't pay IBI and the Church has rented a company for its management. Perhaps they can help support Mondoñedo priests with the money they stop paying the tax, for example, with that lucrative space, with that parking lot, in the case of the Town Hall of Lugo. We agree, I say, that access cannot be limited, and it cannot be done, in a rather biased way, simply allowing entry free of charge when it is in liturgical acts or, for example — they also explained — for those people who are pilgrims, so that they can see it and pray. This Mondoñedo priest said that in that case the entrance would also be free, regardless of whether the pilgrims had or profess some kind of belief or, in this case, a Catholic religious belief. We agree that access and entry to these assets must be guaranteed in a free manner. We also agree that if any kind of complementary services are offered, such as guided tours, audio guides or any other service, which may be voluntarily paid by the people who decide to enter or access these assets — welcome — but in no case can be limited to entering these spaces, which, I say, receive large amounts of public money, which do not receive other entities that do not belong to religious confessions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Thank you. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u168	Good afternoon, everyone. We fully agree with the initiative of the Socialist Party of Galicia, but, reflecting on it, we think we should go much further. The truth is, I don't know if in previous years, where I wasn't here, this has already been dealt with, I imagine so, because it's a very important issue. Public approaches to the preservation of the heritage of the Catholic Church and any other private institution should be subject to the existence of a plan that guarantees the accessibility of all citizenship to these goods. And that's why it would be essential for all such subsidies to require a plan of accessibility to subsidised cultural heritage as an inexcusable condition to be able to opt for aid; not for its concession, but simply to be able to opt for it. The Catholic Church, according to a number of studies I have consulted directly or via the way to tax, public prices, etc., receives from the State, or from the rest of public administrations, a figure greater than EUR 11,000 million per year. The vast majority of the goods in their power... their accounts are totally opaque, a true tax haven, while increasing poverty and privatizing public services. It would be necessary to review the properties that their bishops have registered the name of the religious institution from 1946 until today, and thus also to review the policy of public subsidies that are granted for the maintenance and preservation of the aforesaid goods, because even though they are immobiles the name of the Church, the Government also invests public money in preserving them, rehabilitating them and keeping them and, as it has already been said, in a much more generous way than with other goods of cultural interest. It is true that many are places dedicated to worship, temples, chapels, churches, hermitages, etc., whose property the name of the church would be justified, but among the rest of the heritage that the Church has registered in its name are many other cultural assets, housing, land, social sites, cemeteries, etc., with which in many cases, as has also been previously commented, important business is generated. But the reality is that this is a matter, as I said at the outset, of a lot of entities that this Parliament should face with specific and concrete proposals, which, of course, In Marea will develop at its own time and which go far beyond what is being developed in this non-legislative proposal. In the matter of this initiative of the Socialist Party of Galicia, we believe that access to culture should be considered a fundamental right that we should all support, and reject obstacles, especially economical, such as those mentioned in this initiative, and even more so because the above-mentioned goods are kept with public funds. For all that, and without much more to add, our vote will be positive to the proposal of the Socialist Party of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u169	Thank you, Mr. Casal. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Antón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u170	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I, Mrs. Burgo, must admit that I am not quite clear what the real end of your proposal is, beyond putting the point of view in the Catholic Church. Because, if you do, you ask the Galician Council to put in the necessary means so that all citizenship can enter free of charge in all cathedrals, because they received at some point public money. Are you suggesting that the Galician Union bring to the cathedrals the amounts that could enter into the concept of entry? Are you suggesting that the Galician Union prohibits the establishment of an entrance, thus depriving them of the possibility of generating resources and thus persistently condemning public administrations to contribute to the maintenance of their heritage? It's just that you complained about the budget drop, right now. We extrapolate the PSdeG reasoning: would the Galician Board forbid any other institution that receives its arrivals to restore or preserve its heritage to establish an entrance to the public? Would we do that with the Museum of the Galician People? Would we do that with the house of Rosalía de Castro? Or does this reasoning only serve the Catholic Church, Mrs. Burgo? [[Applause]] If we extrapolate your reasoning, should we ask for free passes for films that receive subsidies from public administrations? Mr. Casal can explain something to us in this regard. And how does it justify your position, Mrs Burgo, when a few days ago, in Commission 4th, you enthusiastically applauded the BNG's proposal to subsidize the recovery of private assets in various municipalities, in this case of the province of Lugo? You really have an argument, in our opinion, a little weak. In our view, the value of the assets that belong to the Greek heritage must be managed with it; a good management that enables its preservation, its promotion and its dissemination, to bring to citizenship the cultural values, the historical, heritage and artistic values that they represent. We consider that the establishment of an entrance to the cathedrals or any cultural asset should serve at least two questions: to contribute to daily maintenance, to its conservation — i.e. to reinvest the collection in the monument itself — and, on the other hand, to improve public attention, both in the personal media, thus creating jobs, as materials, so that tourism-cultural visits can be carried out in optimal conditions. And in this context, we must value the existence or establishment of an entrance to the cathedrals of Mondoñedo, Ourense or Tui, where the cathedral itself is the only source of possible income. By the way, this is an extended practice in many other cities in Spain, in cities where you also have something to say — Seville, Cordoba, Toledo, Barcelona, Cadiz — and in cities around the world, such as London, Milan, etc. It is up to the head of every cathedral to which the government and the management of the cathedral belongs, that, when BIC is declared, as you recall, is subject to the Vigilant legislation and therefore four days of free visit per month. Outside of this generic obligation, nothing prevents the entry into a BIC from paying. In spite of that, his lordships know that the Council of Galicia maintains an interview with the dioceses of Galicia — you also remembered — through the Joint Committee of the Church, whose regulation has just been adopted last August. This institutional collaboration framework established in 1985 allows, among other things, advice on the establishment of conditions for public access to the property in which investments were made by the Autonomic Administration. This recent insurance regulation will improve the conditions of visit and enjoyment from the cultural perspective of cathedrals and other ecclesiastical heritage of cultural value. I end by insisting that the valuation of the heritage has to go through a good management that enables it to generate own resources for its maintenance, for its preservation for future generations, as well as for its dissemination and promotion. Any initiative that serves to contribute to this task will be welcome and supported by this People's Group, but with a serious argument, Mrs Burgo, with a solid argument and outside and free of prejudice. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u172	Thank you very much, President. Well, first of all, I want to thank you for supporting this initiative to BNG and En Marea. Secondly, Mrs. Antonio, I am not surprised that you don't understand this initiative, because, look, this initiative is based on the right that all citizens have to access to culture, and that's where it is based. [[Applause]] And you don't understand this principle or this right; neither do you understand it nor do you understand it by the People's Party, and in coordination with the People's Party, nor does the Government or the Council of Culture understand it. I would like to know why the People's Party and the Government, which is sure to agree with your opinion, find nothing to say when neither the Franco family nor the Church violates the Law of Heritage; that is, you don't care that the Church violates the Law of Heritage in its article 48, and you are the ones who have to be in charge of fulfilling the law. We already know that the People's Party has an idea very much of what it is to comply with the law. We know, precisely with all that's going on with this party, that for you to comply with the law is twisting it about your own benefit and for the benefit of those who want to help, and in this case, as far as you can see, it's the Franco family and the Church. The Church has an obligation, like any BIC owner, to open at least four days a month, and of course it should also have an obligation — and you should force it within this joint commission — to open at least the cathedral, the cathedrals, without any entry. Another thing is museums, the Cathedral Museum, I said, and you know it, the diocesan Museum, or the People's Museum. They're other things very different from a cathedral or a church, very different. You have an obligation to do so. I want to talk about something else, too. Look, if you charge tickets, you have some benefits; if you have those benefits, you'll have to pay taxes for those benefits, because they're developing an economic activity. Do you know what the Ourense Cabido himself says they won in a year? 106,000 euros. Do you know how many people in the world had in a month, 4.5 euros a person? EUR 15,000. So if you're doing an economic activity, you're paying taxes for economic activity, because you can't be in mass and repeating. Excuse me, do you have anything to tell me? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u173	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u174	...have anything to say to me, sir...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u175	No, I told him to shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u176	Aren't you going to recriminate him?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u177	I told him to be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u178	I don't know what he told me. And it's better for you that I don't know what he told me, eh!, much better! [[Protests.]] You're proving what I am, you're proving what I am! I'm not going to give qualifications, because you know, besides, that I'm not going to put your comrades in. Mr. Castineira, you are proving every day, every day, what it is, and, of course, it's not a pleasant sight at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, please be quiet. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and four other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the implementation of the measures reflected in the State Covenant against Gender Violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u180	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u181	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u182	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. I, María Pierres, pledge myself to the Socialist Party's representative with the State Covenant against Gender Violence, and I promise to work for and to improve and enrich the same from the collective. And from the individual, I also pledge to ensure that my child has not been a victim since he was a child of gender stereotypes, pushing his universe to be a universe of diverse colors, and not only the blue world in which some people are interested in frame it. [[Applause]] Let me now greet the people who accompany us today in the gallery, women engaged in the fight for equality and against gender violence, representatives of the Fademur association, of the Association of Women of Santa Marina de Carracedo, of Caldas de Reis, and especially a greeting to Esther and Eylin, representatives of the Association For All, of Vilagarcia, live example... and I say alive, because they literally survived the worst face of macho violence, and can only admire them for their bravery...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u183	Would you like to rest for a moment, Mrs. Pierres? No problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u184	...for his courage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u185	If you want to rest, you can rest. We'll leave him a minute. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u186	...—no— for their generosity, and fighting now to prevent gender-based violence from hitting other women. Esther, Elyn, today your presence is dignified and humanizes this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I'm sorry, it wasn't my intention. All of them, I said, represent the feeling of society, much more conscious today with the struggle for equality that years ago. Fight that still needs everyone's involvement. This isn't a problem for women, it's a problem for all of us because everyone is affected by it, and without that joint task, fighting for that society that we aspire to, we won't get any better. Following the exposition of this non-law proposal that we present today before this plenary, it is necessary to clarify and remember that the Socialist Party was the first party that called for a state pact against gender violence as a complementary instrument to the current legislation and the corresponding budget allocation. We have thus made clear the involvement and commitment of the socialists to the struggle for equality and the eradication of gender-based violence. With this initiative we are asking for three basic questions, which are summarized in the following: in which we commit ourselves, in which we do so as soon as possible and in which we contribute the budget necessary for all this to be possible. Let us finally make what is a state problem, which has led to a state pact, not now a state failure. And if we bring this initiative today, it's because the implication of it in the reality of the Greeks and the Greeks is direct. It is important to point out, and we have commented on it in the explanatory part of this initiative, that the proposals reflected in the Covenant document do not contain in their entirety all the initiatives, in this case presented by the Socialist Group, and we know that also by other groups, but that the Covenant contains those accepted by all parliamentary groups. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that these agreements are necessary, but not sufficient, and that is why we will continue to demand further progress in this area through various initiatives, both from the General Courts and from the autonomous parliaments and the municipalities themselves. The inadequacy of these measures set out in the Covenant shows the figures that each year accompany the data of gender-based violence in our country. I'm telling you about recent data on the perception of violence between Thursdays. 27.4% of Spanish Thursdays between 15 and 29 years of age consider gender-based violence a normal attitude in couples' relationships. About 30% of Thursdays don't perceive mobile control or surveillance and social networks as a form of gender violence, and 3 out of every 4 Thursdays believe that women's opportunities in terms of wages or access to corporate responsibility positions are much worse than men's. They're all signs that among young people there's not enough improvement in progress in equality, and clear rejection of violence. Consider it highly inevitable as a clear failure of equality policies. An increasingly complex violence that opens up new vulnerabilities, and that we directly relate to machismo. Gender violence is not random, it is the fruit of the failure of equality policies, and it is necessary to work and target these policies from the educational point of view. Questions all that are reminding us every day that we cannot continue to waste time and push us and force us to demand that they be shortened, accelerated, that the deadlines set for the implementation of measures be accelerated, since the State Covenant against Gender Violence means to fight against a very serious issue affecting women's security as citizens. This year's data of murdered women fruit of macho violence is demolition. Officially, as of today, there are 44 victims of gender-based violence, which is already equivalent to the total number of victims in 2016. But there is a fact that is absolutely demoralizing and disheartening: last year it was one, but this year it is that eight minors were killed by their parents; a data that goes far beyond all the data of the past years, and one of them, sadly, was Greek. Five were the women killed this year, who had orders of protection in force, and since 2011 there have been 35 women killed in this same situation. Women therefore asked for such protection, which proved insufficient. I understand that these data are absolutely serious. That it fails in order to protect a woman who asks for protection, helps, and that this failure materializes with her murder, it's not an anecdote, it's not exceptional; it's a drama, it's a responsibility of the policies that affect us all. Victim protection methods are therefore insufficient, ineffective. How many more women or children have to be killed to make us all react? How are we going to move the message that it is necessary to denounce gender-based violence if 20 percent of those who murdered last year previously reported their attacker and 11.4% of them had an order of protection in place? We understand that this is not a problem of protocols and media. Security teams and forces that care for victims with protection are insufficient and unable to ensure such surveillance of the aggressor and to ensure the safety of the victims. This is the case with which we can better understand the importance of investing and doing so urgently, in this case in the protection of the victims, but the same must be transferred to the prevention, training and specialization of the agents of the victim care process. It is necessary to implement each and every one of the measures reflected in the State Covenant, to encourage urgent activation and transfer of the agreed budgetary shares for the implementation of the Covenant agreements to all the administrations involved, to the communities, to the municipalities; in the case of Greek it becomes indispensable. And while all the measures are necessary and important, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that there is a particular urgency in the implementation of those measures that relate to local authorities and their role in the area of the care and protection of women victims and their daughters and children. Experience confirms that the closer the administration and the closer the citizenship are, the more effective the awareness, education or early detection measures, and the more effective the emergency response or follow-up of services. Local governments have experience, implementing rules and plans with specific measures that promote equal opportunities. We therefore understand that the 20 million euros a year that have to be provided to local administrations cannot be delayed or excused in budgetary extensions that threaten their achievement. And by the way, there is nothing we propose to you today on this initiative that is not already contained in the State Pact, nothing. For all this, we hope that all groups will support this initiative, which comes to demand the greatest of the axillities for the implementation of the Covenant, its measures, its deadlines, the transfer of budgets, not understanding that they did not do so unanimously, because they were basic principles and on which the document itself was based, agreed and approved. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u188	Thank you, Mr. President. I also want to greet the guests of the Socialist Party. No doubt without the work that all of them do at the base level, our work here would be more lonely and more inaccurate. It's nice to have someone here who listens to us, when sometimes we see a slightly dehumanized parliament already dealing with our proposals. So thank you very much for the work of every day of the year and for coming here today. I'll point to the thread of this Socialist Party initiative. First of all, from the BNG we want to say that we want to focus the debates, at the doors of this 25th November, mainly on the Greek field and essentially on the issues that the ladies and gentlemen on this side of the bench have to vote and to say yes or no without throwing balloons out, without throwing balloons to Madrid, and we want them to position themselves above all on the issues that depend directly on the board of Galicia. But I will say a few questions about this so-called state pact, which has now given a lot more headlines than legislative changes or policy changes. For the BNG trial this is a pact that we can qualify as minimums. Is it important? Yeah, we say it's important, we don't care. Do you gather progress that we should not underestimate, or much less, even if they know us in a little bit? Well, it also collects progress that seems important to us, even if it's not enough. But is this pact all? is it all as it seems suddenly from night to morning? Well, we honestly don't think so. And it grieves us because it loses a chance of gold for many women in the Spanish state who, even if they are not from our country, have our solidarity and our best wishes. It is a loss of a fundamental opportunity, because before this state pact there was a fundamental opportunity to begin by overcoming the State Law of 2004 and taking an example from the Greek Law of 2007, which, as far as the conception of violence is concerned, is much broader and leaves many fewer women out of what state law does. No one denies that he has important issues, for example — and the voice of the Socialist Party has already mentioned children who are victims of masculine violence this past year — we rejoice that the initiative of the Socialist Party itself, based on this theoretical pact, the mothers of these children are considered victims of masculine violence, not as it has so far been. But we also think that we cannot deny all the shortcomings and lakes that this state pact has. For example, in a few weeks when we have to start to see social opinion and certain media outlets in the face of the San Fermin rape case, it should be recalled that rapes are still out of sight, from a legal point of view, of male violence. It also continues to miss this sexual harassment which sometimes bothers some Members and Members of this House. But, above all, for us, the great failure of this pact — and the socialist spokesman already pointed to some question — is that without budgeting, like any other matter, because it will be a mere declaration of intentions, a mere wet paper. And the greatest proof is that during this month the Socialist Party and also the People's Party have put forward motions in the councils and in the deputies, and now the Socialist Party, this initiative, of which the spokesman himself said nothing new was included. It's disappointing that we have to assume already that pessimistic outlook that it's going to be a failure and that it looks like it's not going to be fulfilled. So our amendments are going to require economic commitments, regardless of what happens in the state negotiations as to budgets, because we are not going to allow violence against women to also be an argument for someone to approve or stop approving budgets — and it goes a bit on the line of other demands made by the Socialist Party itself in this regard. And we also included amendments to the Galician Council itself, because it is very good that we care about the State Pact, but it would also be good that we were concerned a little bit about this theoretical pact of this Welsh House, and why the Galician Council is increasing its budgets for this issue, and we can talk about theory and practice, not just theory. For example, just by giving some data, since yesterday we had a debate about budgets and the councilman of Fairy didn't use the word dubious, but he did say that this humble lady no one had explained to him the budget movements, the budget changes, it has to be said that they are legal, but sometimes they are a little immoral. And, for example, if we see the budget execution and the budgetary changes of the last budget exercise, we see that programs that are also important — even though they are not directly of macho violence — such as actions for equality, have had a cut of more than 12%. Now we've come to approve the first procedure of budgets that increase the expenditure capacity of the Galician Union by over 222 million, but the Male Violence Programme increases by 222,000 euros...;
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u190	...that is to say — and I will finish, Mr President — that not even every million that increases devote 1,000 to preventing and eradicating male violence. So our amendments go in the sense of demanding the state, yes, but also demanding from this side of the bench less speech and more economic resources. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u192	Good afternoon. Since En Marea I also want to receive the people you're here; our greeting and our gratitude, because we know that the measures that have been advanced, although insufficient, in the wake of equality, come from social pressure, from the pressure of feminist movements and from people like you. And, Mrs. Pierres, don't apologize for crying, because really only from empathy can you make decent policies; from empathy to understanding that, when we talk about laws, we're talking about people like you here, like those out there. There's no need to apologize for that. And the gravity of the situation that we have on top of the Machist violence needs, of course, a decisive action by the institutions. It's a question of democracy, it's a question of guaranteeing the rights of more than half the population. And that's why we're going to support this non-law proposal, because it's urgent that the deadlines be shortened for these measures to be put in place. Insufficient? Yes. Do you need it? You too. It is urgent that they start, and it is also urgent — it has been said here — that the budget increases, that there is budget behind these measures. That's why, even if we're going to support this non-law proposal, we also understand that the fact that you are present is evidence that the State Covenant has an effect, and it has an effect because it does not offer guarantees for your compliance. We understand — and that is why In Marea abstained in the vote of the same, although he participated and came up with proposals — that without guarantees and without budgetary commitment a state pact was born without support from the State. Looks like a misunderstanding, but that's the way it was. But this is a reality because, since the deadline for implementing the measures is about to end, there has been no progress, and there have been cuts in equality games in recent years; as cuts there have been in health care and dependence, which, of course, all these cuts affect women in general, because we continue to deal mostly with care tasks. That is why we make these positions clear when we vote in Congress by abstaining from this state pact, asking — I repeat — for those guarantees of implementation, both at the budgetary level and at the level of control of this pact itself. So, without enough budgets, there's no state pact. But, however, even if these budgets are insufficient, it seems to us that it is essential, of course, that this appropriation is advanced, because, even if budgets were not approved for the coming year, an extraordinary loan could be granted to transfer funds to both municipalities and autonomous communities to implement the measures of this state pact. And here we wanted to make two notes. As for the measures that relate to the obligations of the autonomous communities, they are especially those that go to education. Mrs. Pierres also said the importance of education from childhood to overcome stereotypes. Surely she also understands that education must even be extended to the period of management. Because we know very well that of: "Uy!, you're a girl, you're quieter," "He's a boy, he's the house boy." Equality everywhere, at all times, and overcoming stereotypes at all times. This is about the powers which the Union has, but, as far as the municipalities are concerned, it is also essential to strengthen Community social services. We won't be tired of saying it, I'm the gateway to all social situations. With good community social services, reinforcing the role of social education — against the vote that the People's Party had on a bill that called for more regulation of the profession of social education — we would have many more mechanisms to fight against male violence. And the People's Party in recent years has cut the powers of the municipalities and their funds. So you can't fight against masculine violence in institutions closest to citizenship. That is why we are particularly supportive of the spirit of the GNP at this point. And, to finish, we consider it necessary to call things by their name; naming things means that they exist. In this sense, we agree that the concept of male violence is broadened, because it is not tolerable that a rape is not considered to be a male violence. And in this sense, we ask the People's Party... Mr. Vega is not here, but the other day, in a debate on the radio, he pointed out that violence was not a matter of machismo, which was a matter of violence. No, let's call it by name, it's a matter of machismo! They don't trivialize, because we're talking about the violence women suffer because we're women. [[Applause]] So we support the need to realise: budgetary commitment and commitment to the fulfilment of the pact.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u193	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u194	Good afternoon. You welcome the guests to be here today in the Galician Parliament. Of course, this is an important moment. This year 2017 is an important year because we commemorate most of November 25. I really don't want to get into the game where some other group has entered here today, and less this week; in that dynamic of trying to move people, who have political groups, or less, that the most voted political group in this country doesn't care about violence. I really refuse to enter into that sad dynamic of valuing and comparing the commitment to this problem of one and the other. I don't doubt for a second the goodwill of all opposition groups in the fight against gender violence. I presume you have the same good will that I have and that you have my group, and I think to do the opposite is to be mistaken as an enemy. [[Applause]] We don't, we believe — and this is something that has long been insisting on the Vice-President of the Galician Union — that this is no longer a subject for the party struggle as if it were the plot of a road. This is much more important, and that's why the message that we must move to society is that we are all here against the male aggressors. And surely the Junta can succeed or be wrong, be short or pass, and arrive in time or late, like any other administration, of the institutions where you rule, but I think it's irresponsible to want to move that, according to who governs, there's more or less willingness to address this problem. I don't think so, I think it's a shared will and a policy that has continuity who's in government. We, of course, continued some of the policies that had begun the Galego Nationalist Block, because they are well-focused; we voted in favour of the law that had promoted the Bipartite, because it was good; we voted in favour of the Organic Law which had driven the Government of Mr. Zapatero, because it was good; and I think it is unfair to say that in these years it has not been advanced: from the inception of the Centre for Integral Recovery against Gender Violence, in Santiago de Compostela, until the creation of the Observatory of Violence, through the Programme of Labour Insertion or the Push and Strengthening of the Network of Information Centres to Women throughout Galicia. We have also launched the coordination protocol between institutions, the involvement of the Autonomic Police in the defence of victims, or the introduction of training and prevention of male violence in school curricula and also in the training of public employees. They were initiatives of this party, of the People's Party, that made us move forward. As it has also brought us forward some that we have agreed with the Nationalist Block of Wales, as was the legal amendment to improve aid to victims, and which is already being developed and functioning today. That is why we want to continue to do so, as we did when we raised a common position of the Galician Parliament on the State Pact against Gender Violence, and how we signed the pact last September at the Congress of Deputies. That's why we are going to vote in favour of everything in this non-law proposal, which is supposed to go on the way to execute and move forward in that agreement. But we cannot vote in favour of the point where I propose to break everyone's commitment to this State Pact; that we will never support it. They ask at their first point to talk about the deadlines. Of course, the Socialist Party and all the political groups have committed themselves to the Congress of Deputies for a period of two months since the ratification of the pact on 28 September, at the last plenary session of the Congress of Deputies, and, of course, we will continue with that position. Point 2 also calls for measures with local authorities to be put into operation. Specifically, we propose here tomorrow a non-law proposal in which we request the impulse of local coordination tables and the reinforcement of the county network against gender violence. Thank you very much for your support for our proposal tomorrow. In point 3 of the report, they claim that the agreed budget items are activated and transferred. It is well known that in Article 207 of the State Pact there is an increase of EUR 1 billion over the next five years for this pact, with EUR 500 million for the Autonomic Administration, with an additional EUR 100 million for the local administration and EUR 400 million for State competition measures. We hope that this point of your initiative implies that you will approve these budgets in order to give you the budgetary support that the Covenant implies. Finally, we are going to vote in favour of everything in this non-law proposal, which, as I was saying to them, implies joining the State Covenant, fulfilling the assumption that it is so ratified in the same covenant and, of course, incorporating itself into the work of municipalities in the field of gender violence. If the Socialist Party is really on the line to advance the Covenant, it can count on us, and we hope to be able to count on it. And if so, no doubt, this year 2017 will be an important year. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u195	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u196	Thank you, President. Mrs. Garcia, I have to admit to you that I didn't understand much of what you said, because you told me about an initiative tomorrow... I didn't understand him, the truth. I don't know if I was thinking about a chromium game... it's just that, really, I don't understand, I have to be honest. What is presented here today is the launching of all the measures which are reflected in the State Pact, and to do so with the utmost urgency, with speed, in the implementation of the measures. It's a matter that can only have one reading: to put the utmost interest in not re-occurring situations like the Juana Rivas case, with the urgent set-up of legislative reforms that cover cases like her and collected in the State Covenant. It also favours the legislative reform with this urgency, which contemplates the suspension of the regime of visits to abusive parents. If these and many other issues do not move with the utmost speed, it will be of no use to them to appear reflected as intent in a document such as the State Covenant. Even so, the budgetary commitment to the Covenant is one of the issues that appears to be named as the axis of action of the document itself; therefore, to ensure that the transfers of these budgets are fully axillized and fully supported by the approved text itself. I am, however, pleased by the support expressed by the groups, by the amendments they also tabled, in addition to acting in coherence with the support for the document in the Congress of Deputies; not the final vote by some of the groups, but we believe that it is their spirit. I'm going back to the point that this pact we also understand is an important step, but it doesn't fully meet the needs and demands of this group. If we understand that in such agreements reaching consensus, it is more important than not to take steps and remain motionless. Considering some of the amendments tabled by the BNG, and being addition amendments, we accept the first in part, the second in full, and we see the obligation to reject the two points of the third because, if we agree largely with it, we understand that I am another type of initiative that separates the last object of today, which is the clear position on the Covenant and the urgency above all of its implementation. So we encourage them to introduce it on another occasion and talk about it. And with the People's Party, which first asked for a point vote, which we refuse to consider that all points are indispensable and complementary, we arrive at a change at the first point to modify the term "shortening" by "complying and agitating as far as possible". In any case, and beyond the semantics and turns and turns, we thank the spirit of support from the groups, and we rejoice, in addition, that the party of government, the People's Party, reflects from the vote to the particular vote 35, presented by the Socialist Party, which on its basis contains the principles of this initiative today, which was rejected only by its votes. It is always time to reason and reflect. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. Whenever possible, if it makes us come to a transaction, perfect. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Paula Prado del Río and six other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the encouragement of the measures necessary for the celebration on 6 December 2018 of the fortieth anniversary of the Spanish Constitution of 1978, as well as the position of the Parliament of Galicia in relation to the commemorative acts that are promoting and coordinating the General Courts for its celebration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u198	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Puy has the floor to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as is well known, contemporary constitutionalism is a point of arrival of hopes and aspirations, of the secular arenas of the human being for living in peace, freedom and security. Xa Locke, when this movement begins, says, "Being free men equal and independent by nature, none of them can be removed from that situation and subject to the political power of others without measuring their own consent." Modern constitutions are born precisely because men and women want to be free, they want to be equal, they want to be citizens and they don't want to be subject, and they are the illustrated movements that precede revolutionary movements that implement constitutionalism that mark the end of absolutism and the written fixation of the principles of a community through a rational, systematic and orderly norm, which is what is a constitution. We know that this text is since the French National Constituent Assembly declared, in the famous Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the citizen of 1789, that there is precisely no or, as it states in its base 16, "a society in which the guarantee of rights is not guaranteed nor the separation of certain powers has no constitutions." Well, since the end of the 18th century, Spain has been seeking a constitution since this time, in the sense of the Declaration of the Rights of Man. The history of Spain in this field is, or should at least be, well known. Subsequent conjunctory majority, military coups of all direction, fundamentally reactionary, open a convulsive, long, too long period of conservative constitutional periods, some of them progressive and, above all, years of absolutism or dictatorship. Thus, after the progressive Constitution of 1812, suspended by the Absoluteist Sexenium, re-established in 1820 with the Liberal Trienium, which was re-suspended by the Ominous Decade, we arrived in 1836 with a new progressive constitution, the one in 1837, after the brief restoration of the Pepa in 1836, the one in 1812. In 1845 Narváez imposed a moderate constitution. As is well known, then the "Glorious Revolution" imposed the progressive Constitution of 1869. In 1873 the Republic began to make a draft constitution which was never approved. In 1876 the Canovista Constitution was established, that of restoration, of a moderate or conservative character. That ends with the coup d'État de Primo de Rivera and the establishment of the Second Republic in 1931, which ends, as we all know, with a military coup, a civil war and more than forty years of civil conflict and deep dictatorship. This means that between 1812 and 1978 Spain had 62 years without constitution, 68 years of conservative constitutionalism and 30 years of progressive constitutionalism, which are the years that were in force the constitution of 1812, 1837, 1868 and 1931. And that's why it's hard to talk about pendulum movement, as it is sometimes used to, because there wasn't really a pendulum movement, which was a constant trance of Spain's constitutional arenas. And that's why it's so transcendent what happens in Spain in the years 1977 and 1978. A German constitutionalist, although professor at the University of Oviedo, Joaquín Varela, has prepared a study analysing the role of the 1978 Constitution in our constitutional history. It comes to two conclusions, in relation to its method of elaboration: no constitution before 1978, not even that of the year 1837, which is the most similar in this respect, has been elaborated with a desire for consensus and a more inclusive vocation than the present; and the second conclusion to which it comes, relating in this case to the content, says that with regard to the constitutionalism of the 19th century, the Constitution of 1978 innovates much more than it retains, even with regard to the two texts which are more related to it, 1812 and 1869; with the Constitution of 1931, on the other hand, the present constitution presents much more continuity than rupture, despite some important differences in its content, especially in what I assumed the 1978 text of opening to supranational legal order. Method, consensus; content, liberal-progressive, because the social and democratic rule of law is established, and that is why the Transition and the Spanish Constitution are seen, and have been seen at its time, and have inspired many phenomena of transition to democracy, both in Spain and in Europe and in Asia, particularly in the former countries of the Soviet Union, because, indeed, it has been made — the Spanish model of transition to democracy — as a model of democratic transition on a global scale. And so it has been recognized by many historians specifically focused on the analysis of political change. The Constitution is successful, and has succeeded in its day, because it has been able to resolve the five major conflicts in which the Spanish constitutional controversy was centered: firstly, the form of State, taking away all the power of the King, and giving the seat of national sovereignty to Parliament, the parliamentary monarchy; it has solved the problem of Church-State relations, because it establishes the principle of religious freedom, which implies the State's confessionality, but the need for cooperation with the churches — which, of course, in the previous debate, does not seem to be clear to everyone in this House. Third, relations between the civilian and the military, subordinated military power to the civilian and being military power not a power but a part of the administration, in this case of the military administration. Fourthly, the social issue. It's obvious that Spain is not the same, and we just have to look at the figures for the evolution of state presence in the economy: when Franco dies, 25% of public spending in relation to GDP; today, as you know, we're over 42%. And, of course, the Constitution has resolved, within the social issue, the problems of rights, beginning with women — there is still much to go through, but it is clear that the situation in relation to frankness has nothing to do with it, fortunately — and rights such as divorce, abortion, homosexual marriage and others have been recognized by this constitution. And finally, fortunately in this case for Galicia, the territorial issue was resolved with a system of shared sovereignty among the various powers of the State, so that the concept of sovereignty has lost all sense, because autonomous communities exercise part of the sovereignty that corresponds to the State, as we have demonstrated every day when we legislate in this House. Finally, we are faced with a success in all of its economic, social, political extension, and precisely, in addition to that, because one of the issues being resolved, which is self-government, affects Galicia very fundamentally, and in Galicia we are especially satisfied with the constitutional text. I looked for some data to reflect the difference between pre-constitutional pre-constitutional Galicia, 1977, and current Galicia. So agriculture was devoted 44% of the active population of the occupied population of Greece; currently 6%; industry, 17%, currently 14%; construction, 8%, currently, 5.6%; and services increased from 28% to 60%. 40 percent, who lived from agriculture, we all know how he lived, especially the biggest, and lived from self-consumption; he didn't live particularly well, and we all remember how he lived when there was no water or light and people lived in the same building as animals. The per capita GDP of Galicia rose from 74.2 in relation to Spain to 89.1. Life expectancy has passed on to men between the ages of 70 and 80 and women between the ages of 75 and 86. Infant mortality: in the year 75, 23.6 children under the age of one year per thousand were killed; at present 2.7 out of every thousand were born. We had a university, a campus, now there are three universities, seven campuses. There were 90,000 people with university studies, today there are 380,000 with a third degree. In editorial production, the oldest data I found was that of 1983, which was in Galicia — in 1983 — 289 book titles; currently —2015 — 1,787. Highways were 100 kilometers away, currently 1,100. As staff that research and develop, R & D personnel, we've gone from 3,000 to 9,000 people. And the percentage of people aged 25 to 34 with tertiary education is 37 men in Galicia and 52 women, and if we compare these numbers of women: 52 women in Galicia, 47 women in Spain and 43 men in the European Union; and 37 men in Galicia, 35 women in Spain and 33 women in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the 1978 Spanish Constitution deserves to be celebrated on its 40th anniversary, because we owe it, precisely, the best 40 years of our history; a history of peace, integration into Europe, democracy, freedom and self-government. That is why we ask the Union and even this Parliament to join in the actions that other State institutions are organizing so that this ephemerality is commemorated as it really deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u200	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u201	Good afternoon. Mr. Puy has already prepared the conference to go for a tour throughout Galicia; besides, he has a lot of data there. We didn't know that so many books were published thanks to the Constitution. We thought the books were published thanks to the people who are fighting every day since the editorials, from the associations of writers, who are fighting, with the Government against, to publish books in German. We thought it was because of that, but no, it was because of the Constitution, that magical constitution... of course, you come here with that mythical-magic story, even putting in the exhibition of reasons something like this: "We pass a transit of an authoritarian regime to a solid democracy." Mr. Puy, it wasn't an authoritarian regime, it was a dictatorship, a cruel and bloody dictatorship, genocide. Let's call things by their name; let's not do that past. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if Mr. Crespo wants to tone something...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u202	Quiet. No, I heard the debate very well. If I heard the debate. He's talking about motive exposure... No, but I heard it right. [[Murmurs.]] He's talking about the explanatory statement and Mr. Puy talked about "deep writing." That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u203	Let's call it bloody and cruel. We have nothing to celebrate as nationalists and Democrats. As nationalists we oppose and oppose this constitution because, Mr. Puy, lords of the People's Party, we have this poison in our body, the poison of nationalism, the poison that they had Alexander Bóveda and Ánxel Casal, who killed them just to try to end that poison, but they failed to do so. Even that cruel and bloody dictatorship couldn't end that poison they had in the body of Alexandre Bóveda and Ánxel Casal, the poison of commitment and passion with our nation, which they also had and which they carried within their soul Amparo López Jean, Maria Miramontes or Castile. [[Applause]] That's why they had to flee to exile, and they took that poison with them just beyond the sea. We believe that the Constitution should not be celebrated as nationalists because it is a corset, a shirt of strength, for our areas of freedom, self-government, sovereignty and well-being. We defend the exercise of collective rights because we are a nation, and we sleep it alone, not because no one tells us. No nation, no historical nationality, because we are. We don't need anyone to give it to us funnyly. [[Applause]] And also, we don't have to celebrate this constitution as Democrats because we don't want or can celebrate a constitution under the coercion of the shadow, of the Frankish apparatus, which survived beyond 1977, consecrated, legitimized and bleached in that constitution too. We do not want or can celebrate a monarchy imposed by the dictatorship, another Franchise heritage, a medieval institution that has never submitted to referendum. [[Applause]] And we want them to be clear: we don't want the monarchy to go through the referendum, we want it to disappear, because monarchy and democracy are incompatible, by the way. A very rare institution—and to the judgments of the courts I refer myself—and deeply classist and machist; a constitutionally machist institution—the monarchy—, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] We do not want or can celebrate a constitution that has legalized the policy, corruption, injustice, which allows for regression, the retrocession of rights and freedoms and the persecution of pluralism and discrepancy; a rigid, petrified, unmovable, sacralized norm, which has only been changed, curiously over all these years —39 years — twice. You know why, don't you? In order to comply with the dictates of the European Union, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, to defend the interests of the bank; that is why the reform of 135 was set up. And we have to go through the myths, the myths of consensus, too, because consensus wasn't like that. I remind you — that I do not know if you remember — that there was a party called People's Alliance — not if you agree, but something with you should have to do so — and that mainly by Title VIII in People's Alliance 8 Members voted in favour, 5 against and 2 abstained. Of course, you must have a bad conscience, so now if you want to convert to fit, to champions and to the highest defenders of the Constitution, but then they thought otherwise. Most of the people we're here are not voting the Constitution, we couldn't vote the Constitution. I would do them an exercise, if I may, a popular consultation—if you can make popular consultations here—to the popular bench, and ask them to raise the hands of the Members or Members of the People's Party present in the House who voted in the Constitution—I will not ask them if they voted in favour because, at best, they might even find out some secret of alcoba they cannot confess—...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u204	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u205	Mr. Crespo. Mr. Crespo voted in favour of the Constitution. So...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u207	...we believe that we must overcome that past, that imperfect preteritum as nationalists and as Democrats, build a future for our nation, a democratic future, a secular future, a republican future of the Greek Republic, a future in which individual and collective rights are respected...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u208	Thank you, Mr Bará. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u209	...that they have no place in this constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u210	Thank you. Thank you, Mr Bará. Quiet. It became clear that we have a very young parliament. [[Laughter]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u211	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. I also commit myself, as a member of the Socialist Party, to the State Covenant against violence against men and women, and I promise to work individually and within my party to improve the situation and enrich the pact itself. And within that idea of equality, which, by the way, our Constitution recognizes in article 14, I want to quote Mary Shelley, who was not only the wife of one of the best poets in history, but also a great writer, who said, "I wish women not to have more power than men, but to have more power over themselves."and I think that, with regard to the celebration of November 25, this year, the phrase may be of value to us. [[Applause]] We are going to vote in favour of this initiative. And how can we not celebrate the 40 years of commemoration of the Constitution? One of his editors and then rapporteur was Gregorio Peces Barba. He was a militant of the Socialist Party. He represented our party as one of the parents, the so-called "fathers of the Constitution," and in his time was one of the most radical defenders of human rights in that bloody dictatorship, as Mr Bará said, in frankism. He was a lawyer in proceedings before the Court of Public Order and in war councils. He was arrested by the police in 1969, banished from his house and suspended from the exercise of counsel precisely by the defense of human rights. First, he was a defender of democracy, when there was none, and then he was a defender of the 1978 Constitution, and he was a member of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] How are we not going to support a non-law proposal that defends the 1978 Constitution if it is also a daughter of the Socialist Party and has served to protect and promote individual rights and civil liberties and their effective guarantee? It was the expression of legitimate pluralism, it was the modernization of our social, economic and cultural life, and, in fact, we are here thanks to the 1978 Constitution. And we don't forget that many of our party comrades gave their lives for the defense of that constitution on which a legitimate government was based in its day that was disbanded from power, gave their life by a fundamental rule, the one in 1931 -- by the way, much less advanced than the present one in 1978 -- and suffered during the dictatorship, like Peces Barba, to achieve a constitution like that in 1978. Some time later, in 2003, those "fathers of the Constitution" signed a symbolic declaration by the 25th anniversary of the Constitution, and said that, regardless of their legal merits, of their shortcomings, which they had, or of their free opinions about whether they were perfect or not, they were intact their spirit of reconciliation, the pursuit of cancelling the historical tragedies of our past dramatic, the desire for agreement and the search for meeting spaces in tolerance, and we agree with that, with that spirit, and that's why we're going to vote in favour. Also because this constitution regulates states of autonomy. It's almost the same as in the Second Republic of 1931. In our Article 2 it speaks of the autonomy of nationalities and regions, and in the year 1931, in its Article 1, it spoke of an integral state compatible with the autonomy of municipalities and regions. Our autonomous communities are the daughters of those autonomous entities who spoke of the Constitution of 1931, the Constitution of the Second Republic; therefore, self-government. And thanks to that Constitution — which for us is not yet sufficient for the self-government we have — our autonomous state has been able to represent the decentralization project of the state of the most important and longest political power in the history of our country. However, the Constitution has an ejaculation, an enormous ejaculation; it has many defects, but it has a great ejaculation. I have two children, and my children don't know her, and they don't know the Autonomy Statute, and I'm sure if we go out the street and ask questions about the Constitution no one or very few people will be able to answer. I'm sure those of us in here, if we ask things from the Constitution, a few might have passed that exam. And that's an ejacism that we have as a society, and it's an ejacism above all of the political representatives, which we haven't been able to pass on to the rest of society for almost 40 years, which means the 1978 Constitution. Until recently no one spoke or knew that article 155 existed. They didn't even know or know many citizens who rights are changing, and I'm going back to Pices Barba. Peces Barba had been interviewed by Iñaki Gabilondo when the Civil Code was reformed so that homosexuals could marry, and they spoke of article 32 of the Constitution, which speaks of the right of women and men to marry. He doesn't say to each other, he doesn't say to whom. Fish Barba himself was the only one -- the rest of the parents in the Constitution said it wasn't, or it wasn't, that he said it was at that time -- and it's true, because most speakers didn't consider the possibility that men could marry men and women, because it was the year 1978. But it was clear to him that the Constitution had allowed the interpretation of rights to progress over time, and thanks to that and thanks to a socialist president, Zapatero, women can marry women and men can marry men. [[Applause]] I cannot end without reference to the meeting of the Senate and Congress on 20 September, and at that joint meeting of the tables the Socialist Parliamentary Group voted in favour of the events of the 40th anniversary. And we, with that text we share, are going to vote in favour today too, because it is necessary to serve as a recognition for all those people who before 1978 gave not only their personal situation, but their life for the Constitution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u212	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u213	...—now finished, President—which, of course, did vote in referendum and, therefore, also, the part concerning self-government. If there was a referendum on our current situation in Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u215	Good afternoon, ladies. He said Boaventura de Sousa that in order for the constitutions to function the constituent processes had to be a work, not of a vanguard, but of a shortcut, speaking of this of the social majority, that at every historical moment they had to accompany the constituent processes, because at the end and at the end these constituent moments governed the rules of coexistence for some time; some time which, however, was not eternal either. And that's one of the reasons why In Marea won't support this party; a party that celebrates the current text, because we think that, at this historic moment, our country, and the state as a whole, they need and are demanding a constitutional process that will light up a new constitutional text; a new constitutional text that addresses several pending subjects: First of all, in the field of popular sovereignty, which collects recognition of Galicia's national character, as well as that of other nations that are part of the Spanish State, with full recognition of its right to decide the form of political organization. And, secondly, in the field of social justice, which fully recognizes the binding nature of all social rights that are recognized even in today's current dogmatic part of the Constitution and which do not have and which do not constitute genuine subjective rights that can be invoked by citizenship directly, as is the case with the right to a decent housing or to some work conditions acceptable to all the population; in addition, in our opinion, to include new rights of last generation, which are already socially internalized today and which, therefore, constitute a collective claim that needs legal protection and that today have no constitutional reflection, for example, the right to a minimum vital or basic income, environmental rights that include the concept of ecological justice and, within it, the protection of the rights of animals, cultural rights or access to culture as a universal foundation, or the right to water itself, as a right with its own substantivity. In addition, of course, we reject reforms that have been made behind these social groups, as was the case with Article 135, which aimed to bury economic policies that accompany the effectiveness of social rights, and which we therefore cannot celebrate to the extent that they have suffered for the social majority, for millions of people over the past few years. Moreover, since two-thirds of the people living with right to vote right now, not only in this House, but in our society, were not part of the constituent moment of 1978, it is time that these two generations that we came later to take the rents of our own political destiny. As Antoni Domenech said, we are Republicans and therefore we want to decide everything. But even though we wanted to commemorate something with you, you make it very difficult for us, as Professor Pereira Menaut also recalled in an interview recently collected in a half-Greek. Because, let us go even to the constitutional text that is in force, let us not pass from article 1, even political pluralism; the principle of political pluralism which the People's Party is constantly prosecuting through an electoral contest, in a form dubbed economically by its illegal financing, some of them being under investigation, such as the case of Mr. Count Roa, investigated for illegal financing of Santiago's PP, and in other cases to the point of caramel, such as the Gürtel case, for illegal financing of the People's Party at the state level, which led them to have the dubious honour of being the first time that a political party as such is being investigated for corruption in the National Audience, or certain cases already known to remain — better than we — and which have already been fully condemned firmly. Other issues that also address political pluralism currently maintain the mayor of King's Palace, despite having been convicted of prevarication and labour harassment to his own secretary of the council; or the way in which a motion of censure has been developed in Tui, which this week gave rise to a situation — yes, yes — in which the anti-transfuge Pact would fully apply. The principle of political pluralism is accompanied by Article 1, point 1, by the principle of justice, justice as a value superior to the legal order, and Article 118, which states that it is mandatory — since they speak of the Constitution — also to collaborate with the judges required in the course of the process in the execution of judicial resolutions. How does the People's Party understand article 118 of working with the Administration of Justice? On hammers; on hammers with the hard drives of computers that kept the evidence about their illegal financing. But article 103 of the Constitution also speaks of the public administration as objectively serving general interests and acting with the principles of efficiency, hierarchy, decentralization, deconcentration and coordination. And to show the People's Party, the Champion case, where the director of the Igape was convicted of misappropriation of public funds, or also, in the Champion's own case, of a crime against the Public Fair, and therefore against this constitutional article, Pablo Cobián, who was not too long ago sitting near where Mr. Tellado is now. Article 104 of the Constitution establishes what is the function of the forces and bodies of the security of the State, i.e. to protect the free exercise of rights and freedoms and the guarantee of security of the citizen, while we know, not too long ago, as the Minister of the Interior carried out slaps on Ignacio González that the police were investigating him; or Catalan minister himself, also involved in the police coup in the vicinity of González. Article 117 says that justice emanates from the people and is administered by independent judges and magistrates, and yet in Operation Lezo, we know the recordings of Ignacio González with Zaplana, both of the People's Party, conspiring to remove and set up judges and prosecutors. Or Ignacio González himself, in the Atico case, said to Cerezo, "Here, what's left?, take two shots at the judge?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Or Article 124 of the Constitution, on the role of the Prosecutor's Office, which apart from the functions entrusted to other bodies, aims to promote the action of justice in defence of legality, the rights to citizens and the public interest protected by law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u216	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u217	Here, after showing the report by the High Court of Justice of 2016, with more than 200 new cases of corruption in Galicia each year, the vast majority of them featured by the People's Party, In Marea brought to this House the possibility that you would be pronounced in favor of an anti-corruption prosecutor for Galicia, and voted no, and now we will also bring another non-law proposal that we will debate tomorrow about the creation of an anti-corruption office and they will have the opportunity to vote no, which will demonstrate your interest in the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u218	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Replica. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me begin by thanking the Socialist Group. Indeed, the Socialist Party has been in the Constitution and has fundamentally developed the Constitution in very important respects; therefore, we thank you for joining this, which I believe is a cause for celebration. The only question I wanted to tell you is that the Constitution of the Republic actually spoke of "regions", and the current talk of "nationalities", and the nationalist representative in the Constitutional Commission, one of the seven fathers of the Constitution, said that that was precisely the word that made that for the first time in history, not even in the Republic, the principle of Spanish multinationality was reflected in the Constitution, which is not smaller. I want to tell Mr Bará that the Constitution is not magic, that it is magic is freedom, and the Spanish Constitution is good because it guarantees freedom, and guarantees freedom after forty years of a bloody dictatorship, indeed. [[Applause]] Is there a problem? It seems that what he likes is to think that we're going to say something else here. Let's keep going. He says there is no reason for the nationalists to rejoice in the Constitution, when you have just said that in the blood system the autonomists and the Galeguists were shot, and now the image, the person, the work and the memory of all those Galeguists who were shot during the dictatorship are now being rehabilitated. I mean, do you think nationalists have nothing to celebrate? I think they have a lot to celebrate, to begin with, the existence of autonomy, which was precisely the Civil War and the dictatorship that frustrated the possibility that Galicia would accede to autonomy. He says the Democrats have nothing to celebrate. Man! here, in a debate, one of the first ones who was here, Mr. Beers, said we were in a franchise era, and I told him I was insulting the memory of whoever was in jail for being anti-Francist. Then there was even one who said, "There's already the Puy taking out communism, the horns of the communists walking!" and today many of those who were there say it. [[Applause]] You can't trivialize things. If it was so bloody the Frankish dictatorship, how can you even equate the regime of freedoms, this Parliament and Spanish democracy with the French dictatorship? [[Applause]] He talked about two reforms. One was, indeed, that Spain must fulfil its commitments to pay the public debt, but did not say that there was a second. It seemed it was both for... No, the second is for European Union citizens to vote in municipal elections. It should be noted that the European citizens living in Spain can vote in favour of a constitution, which has actually had two reforms. Don't ask yourself in the United States or tell me to raise the hand of those who voted for the Constitution of the United States, because... if you point to Jefferson's principle, that every seventeen years there has to be a constitution... well, the United States wasn't bad, and the Constitution is 1788. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] In fact, there was a division in the People's Alliance in 1977 because there were several who did not follow our founding president, one of the constitutional fathers, who supported the Constitution, and that's why they left the People's Alliance. The grave is not that, that people of the People's Alliance had left. I've already told you here once that you did well, that you let some of those who left the BNPG at that time leave; they did very well. The grave is not that, the grave is that we, where are we today? We are defending the Constitution, we are defending freedom, we are defending Europe. Where are you? You are in 1977, against the Constitution and against frankism. They're out of their century. [[Applause]] And if I tell them the truth, I'm sorry. [[Applause]] It's a shame nationalism is evolving as the People's Party is evolving. But it's your problem, not mine. And, if you will allow me the president, two questions with Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u220	It's gonna be over by now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u221	Well, I think it's very nice that you don't support the party, I think it's very nice that you ask for a constitutional process. I think you ask for a constitutional process because you don't want to ask for reform of the Constitution. Because the reform of the Constitution calls for qualified majority, calls for consensus, calls for understanding. And you, when you ask for a constituent assembly, ask for everything less consensus, less agreement, less pact, less transaction, less create a constitution where we all fell. And that, Mr. Villares, concerns me, almost as much as I hear a magistrate of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia say that there is no independence from the judiciary in Spain. That's enough!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u222	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Non-law proposition... applause is free. [[Applause continues.]] A little more applause... it's a matter... they'll understand that I can't get in on it. [[Applause]] Here it's free, you can applaud... at last. [[Laughter]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'm sorry, there's already been other debates where he applauded too intensely. It's you, I have nothing to say. [[Murmurs.]] Well, let's go to ours! [[Murmurs.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding the management that is being carried out in relation to the political situation in Catalonia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u223	An amendment has been tabled by the EMEA Parliamentary Group which has already been adapted by the Bureau so that it can be debated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u224	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u225	At least they don't kill us now, at least physically, even if they put us in jail, Mr. Puy. Yes, now we'll be incarcerated. Democrats and nationalists will be incarcerated for defending ideas, for defending collective freedoms. [[Applause]] Yes, yes, yes, indeed. [[Murmurs.]] This debate on the state situation in relation to Catalonia has to do with the exercise of fundamental rights, collective rights such as the right to self-determination, the right to decide, and democracy. This question highlights the failure, exhaustion, rot, the 1978 regime, that regime represented by the Constitution, and now it is nationalism that is questioning that regime. And we see how the state, in the face of this question, has an authoritarian, reactionary, retrograde and centralist response in different forms and different slogans. There's the motto of the tripartist constitutional patriotism that Mr. Puy has now invoked here. There's also another slogan that was quite successful, which was "harder will be the fall." There was another -- another motto -- of the answer that was "all in jail." And one who was also very successful was "to for them." This is constitutional patriotism, respect for pluralism and freedoms: "to for them" with Manolo Escobar music, a whole statement of intentions. And then there are also other forms of persecution, of questioning, for example, with the ships of Piolin, or also with that famous civil agent, who has been very successful in recent times, who was really a secret agent who was going to cause serious harm to the Spanish state. I think it would be appropriate to make a little history — as Mr Puy did before — about the background of this conflict, about how we came to the current situation. The origin has to do with the frustration of the legitimate self-government arenas, with the "chosen of the Status" — this is an expression of Mr. Guerra — by the State Courts in 2006 and then by the Constitutional Court in 2010, after the known appeal of the People's Party. There it was found that it was impossible to break this rigid Corsican — as I was referring to earlier — imposed by the 78 regime, a suffocating framework in which nations without a state find it difficult. From 2010 onwards there has been a real mutation in the political map of Catalonia and also in the alliances and the correlation of forces. There was a mass demonstration under the motto "we are a nation, we have decided", which was the starting point of a new historical time, with the configuration of an ever-wider sovereignist; a common sovereignist front that also helped to increase the repressive and recentralizing policy of the People's Party, which is a great independent factory in Catalonia, as you know. And there was a recentralizing offensive of Mr. Rajoy's Government since 2011, with a genuine democratic involution: Mordaza law, reform of the Criminal Code to pursue discrepancy and pluralism, until the recent reform of the Constitutional Court Act. And there was another turning point in that process that was the refusal of the Spanish State, the Government of the State of Mr. Rajoy, to reach an agreement on a proposal that made Catalonia in 2012 for a fiscal pact. A demand similar to that of the Basque dome — that you are now so happy with it — or the proposal that BNG makes for Galicia, a financing system like these that defend themselves from Catalonia or the Basque Country. So, in this context of frustration of various attempts according to the state, it is as the participatory process on the political future of Catalonia in 2014 and the consultation of November 9, in which they voted in favour — and you seem not to give the importance it deserves — more than 1.8 million people — who are not few. We already know what happened next: the elections to the Catalan Parliament of 2015, the referendum of 1 October and all the previous repressive policy of the State Government, such as the abduction of newspapers, the seizure of newspapers, the seizure of paperwork, the ban on riots, intimidation and complaints against mayors and officials, the closure of websites, intimidation, intimidation, blackmail and threats, despite which there was actually a vote with all these pitfalls — you don't give them the importance you deserve either — in which more than two million people voted in favour of this process of independence for Catalonia. It is also well known the repressive response of the State itself on 1 October, the basis of sticks and bruises, as everyone saw on television, although you also seem to want not to recognize that reality, which was really a day of infamy and shame for this so-called Spanish democracy, which could see everyone and which caused real wonder and a great international impact. The kidnapping of polls, the beatings of defenseless people, the excessive and unnecessary violence constitute a real blackboard of a very low-quality democracy. It is part of a process of political involution of the recentralization and cut-off of rights and freedoms that has reached unsupposed limits in a perfectly coordinated, simultaneous and record-time, in express time, of all the bodies of the regime, which is being threatened: the monarchy, the system of parties, the economic oligarchy, the Government, the Constitutional Court, the Prosecutor's office, the National Court, etc. And, of course, they threaten to bring down all the weight of the law in a genuine revenge — which cannot be called otherwise — with that phrase of "harder will be the fall" that appeared in the document of the deceased general tax state. The violation of fundamental rights and freedoms has occurred, an application of 155 that many jurists consider authentically excessive and abusive, with the suspension of Catalonia's autonomy, the overthrow of the Government, the occupation by the Central Government of the Generalitat, which Mr. Rajoy has come to say — assuming, in a sort of inferiority complex — that had not occurred since the Second World War. And it is not true that this occupation and expulsion of the Government of the Generalitat since World War II has not occurred since the beginning of 1939 the Frankish Army occupied Catalonia and deposed and eliminated the legitimate Government of Catalonia. That's when that fact happened. [[Applause]] Procedure and imprisonment of the Government and of the Bureau of Parliament. And, of course, you're already announcing that if everything goes well with them — if all this process that's hand in hand with them — the next step will be the illegalization of parties, the prohibition of ideas and further progress in centralism. And we do not believe in the series of committees of study, constitutional reform and the territorial model because they have already made clear the spokespersons of the People's Party that nothing to reform the Constitution, and less reform the territorial model. Because in addition, both the People's Party and some of its allies, they know perfectly well that this repressive and recentralizing policy will be restored to them. This repressive, judicial police solution for a political conflict demonstrates the limits of democracy and the Spanish Constitution: the inability to dialogue and political negotiation. Don't be afraid of democracy, don't be afraid of polls, don't be afraid of votes. That is proof of the low democratic quality cotton of the Spanish State, which violates fundamental democratic rights such as the right to self-determination or the right to decide. By the way, other states, such as the United Kingdom, such as Canada or Denmark, are much more democratic than those that allow such consultations and referendums. Look, this is no longer a conflict for sovereignty, it's a much deeper conflict; it's a conflict that has to do with defending democracy, defending the right to vote, expressing freely in the ballot boxes that the future wants for its nation. This democratic wing is against the law, and this is not the first time that happens in history or will be the last, it was precisely questioning the legal frameworks as the world has advanced: how women voted, how they achieved the right to abortion, how they ended slavery, or how they have gained the independence of many states that are now recognized in the world. Because rights are not granted, rights are conquered, and justice always prevails over law. As Welsh nationalists and Greeks move solidarity with Catalonia because we have an internationalist vocation, solidarity and anti-imperialist. And just as we have it with the Sahara, the Kurdish people or the Palestinian people, we have it with Catalonia. But we are moved above all by our own interests, Galicia's supreme interest, which is the reason for being nationalism throughout history. Each town, in any case, has its own way, has its own time and its own pace. They want us not, we are a nation and we demand the right of self-determination for Galicia; we demand another place in the world and in Europe; we claim that we want to be, as I told them earlier, a secular, sovereign and egalitarian republic. We want to break those frames, those corsets, those power shirts that drown us and conquer self-government, sovereignty, well-being and democracy. These are — although they don't like to hear it — legitimate ideas that we have the right to defend, and they have to listen to them even if they don't like it. And, of course, we will continue to fight, as the nationalists of this country have done throughout history, for these ideals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u226	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u227	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u228	Thank you, Mr Bará. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u230	Quiet. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u231	Mr. Puy, I'd like to begin with... an incisus simply with regard to your last reference to the previous intervention, which surprised me a little, rather peculiarly some of your rowmates than you. I want to think it was because at that moment I was not paying attention, I was paying attention to the whispers that came from his right ear, from Mr. Tellado, and that's why he did not pay attention to my words, in addition to invoking the magistrate's condition that I am, in excess, of course. That is why I took advantage of Article 118, which is the same reason I took advantage of by the Parliament of En Marea Group, to claim judicial independence and, therefore, to quote specifically Article 118, and precisely for that reason I consider particularly indignant and particularly smiling that we knew through Operation I read the conspiracy that various members of the People's Party had to lay down and remove judges and prosecutors. And that is something that everyone who is listening to us is perfectly reminded of because not so many months ago, and although it will be later decided on the criminal scope or not of these conversations — conversations are already known throughout the world — and the regulatory anchorage in which they occur too, that certain reforms of the Organic Law of the Judiciary and others that Gallardon tried and that, fortunately for this democracy, it could not be carried out in that attempt to reform the Organic Law of the Judiciary Power, give rise to the fact that we, of course, have to claim this as a principle. And one of the reasons why we came here, precisely, invoking the precepts of the vigorous constitution that you are systematically violent and that's why we don't think it's appropriate to come claiming some parts yes and other parts no. So... we've told them more than once: you're a lot of 155, we're more than article 10, people's dignity, that nobody misses anything. [[Applause]] You are a lot of 135, and we are more than article 35, which recognizes everyone's right to work, to work with full dignity and with sufficient wages to arrive at the end of the month. That said, before Mr. President calls me to order, I comment on what was the meaning of our amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u232	He's got two minutes left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u233	All right. With regard to the main issue, the meaning of our amendment is twofold. On the one hand, we also align ourselves with other statements that we made jointly with the BNG, in this particular case with the Open Compostela in the municipality of Santiago, where we understood that it was perfectly collected which was the meaning of the BNG proposal itself, focusing primarily on, moreover, what we mean, on three specific points. First of all, the fact of the referendum as a manifestation or as a juridical-political summit claim to the citizen, of a democratic claim as it is the right to decide, which must have an equally political and equally democratic response, and, therefore, non-repressive, as indicated by some author who I will not now quote, but who explained that, when institutions do not allow citizens to channel claims, it will be time to modify the institutions so that citizens' demands are caught up, taking into account that we are before citizens' demands of a democratic nature, unique and exclusively consistent in expressing political opinion on a topic that is of general interest, something which, of course, Article 92 of the Constitution itself would also allow us to express in the vigorating regime if you wanted, which, of course, they did not want. Secondly, we believe that it was equally appropriate to make a reference to the recognition of the multinational character of the State — as already referred to in the previous intervention — as a step before or as a simultaneous step towards the need to open a constituent process, which we also referred to. And that is precisely the last point in our amendment proposal: the need to institute a constituent process that recognizes this multi-national character with the right to decide. Moreover — if it is true — we also include as a proposal the annulment of Article 135, for a reason that we also explained earlier. We consider, as Republicans and Republicans we are, as citizens and free citizens, that we have the right to decide, but to decide everything at the national level and also at the social level. That is why we want this constitutional process to be opened to ensure expressly — and not only nominally as at present — certain rights which are proclaimed as fundamental or as of a social character, or as guiding principles of social and economic policy, which we believe it is necessary to ensure effectively for all citizenship, in such a way that they are not a mere proclamation or that they are not — as is usually said — a simple wetting role. We believe that the state of maturity of our society, in democratic terms and in terms of social justice, has reached an ideal point to defend that the dignity of the person is the essential point from which to affirm the rest of fundamental rights and the rest of social rights, and put them above the economic dictates that today come under Article 135. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u234	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u235	Good afternoon. I too, like my colleagues, commit myself, as a Member and as a person, to the State Covenant against Gender Violence. And now let's get to the point. [[Applause]] It has already become clear in the debate of the previous GNP that we are defenders of the 1978 Spanish Constitution, of the whole Constitution, for many reasons that have already been exposed, but there is another very important one, that I think it is something that is not understood well, is that the Constitution is a framework that must be necessarily broad, which allows the political game and shows that, when there are most alternative social groups, different policies can be made. Therefore, we may disagree — as we are — with many of the policies that the Government makes, but, nevertheless, to be in favour of the building, the general framework, whatever it is, as the Spanish Constitution is in this case. And surely, after forty years, he needs reforms. We are the first to defend that reforms must be made in the constitutional building, not only in Title VIII, but mainly in Title VIII, because, as it is well known, in Spain's territorial organization in 1978 there were no instructions, there was an area that was gradually being built but without there were rules that organized the set of relationships that must exist between the autonomous communities and the state at all levels. And that's what we need today too. Therefore, reforms, too, but reforms which are provided for in the Constitution itself. We also defend in the Constitution that title that refers to its reform; and the reforms of the Constitution must be done from within, from the constitutional framework. The political current that exists, which believes that to progress we need to change the regime, we think it's wrong. What we need is to solve problems, difficulties, limits, introduce new references because reality is changing, and for that we propose constitutional reform. In relation to other aspects of the non-law proposal, the truth is that it is a little bit of attention to the selective perception that the authors of the proposal have about Catalan reality, and, as a result, to us that this reality is misinterpreted, giving rise to a mystification of language that makes sure that an author like Victor Klemperer, who has already been quoted here on another occasion, would have a lot of interest in analyzing it to do a new job if he was alive. Why do we talk about selective perception? Because in taking BNG's position it is obvious what is fundamental to understanding the latest events in Catalonia. And what is obvious is that the very high political leaders of the community have used their positions of power to break legality, to get out of the constitutional framework, and to promote a strategy of disconnection that has been naive to us and was beggars, as if it had come out of Spain and the European Union it was the same as changing television channels, without realizing the grave consequences it has in many planes. [[Applause]] And this lack of perception of reality is what causes the mystification of language. The proposal speaks of a profound process of democratic involution, of a genuine coup d'état for democracy, of the systematic scourge of basic rights and freedoms, and so on. But all these concepts do not apply to those who cause this, who were the rulers of the Generalitat who were engaged in an independentist process, in a process of secession, which rightly causes these and other harmful consequences. It does not apply to these, but it does apply to a government that uses tools that are provided for in the Constitution itself to restore democratic order. In their position they do not take into account the adoption of laws of disconnection by the Catalan Parliament, neither the DUI, nor the conspiracy for secession, nor the lack of respect for at least half of Catalan society, as well as a large majority of Spanish society. Let's see if Spanish democracy is of quality that independent political leaders, after all that has happened, can present themselves to the elections and be elected, including a president who has forgotten that advice that in politics can be made of anything but ridicule. It is seen that hundreds of thousands of Catalans, hundreds of thousands of Catalans who support independence, of course there are, can not only continue to defend independence without being disturbed, also organize political parties, public meetings, manage mayorships or the Generalitat for years without having any need to ascribe to their independent conditions. [[Applause]] Or are the leaders of the CUP, of the Left, of the PECAT, who were not in positions of power, not all of them free, participating in the political game, presenting themselves to the elections and even seeking to govern Catalonia after December 21st? It's not acceptable for you to tell us here that there is a clear breach of power division. It would be desirable if we approved his LNP, because he's telling us that, in view of the autonomous decisions of the judiciary, we had to judge who should be in prison or not, who should be convicted or not, and that's not admissible. And let's talk about 155. When there is a challenge to democracy of the caliber of what was in Catalonia, the public authorities have an obligation to defend it, because it is to defend common coexistence, because it is to defend the majority of Catalan society that has not supported the process and the whole of Spanish society. Look what you say about the situation in Catalonia, and what I share: It's not a problem that affects the Catalan people exclusively, it affects us all and everyone. I can't agree more. But rather than refer to constitutional procedures, such as that the Catalan Parliament could send a constitutional reform initiative to the Congress of Deputies if it wanted to; it could do so, you endorse the strategy of disconnection of independence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u236	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u237	They'd probably like to have the social force to push a similar strategy in Galicia. The Spanish Government has already been in condition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u238	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u239	The Spanish Government was in a position to apply Article 155 rather earlier, and did not. I am proud of what the Socialist Party has done: to negotiate for there to be a moderate, proportionate and limited application of article 155, which gives rise justly to an election call that will produce a political majority, whatever, from December 21.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u240	Thank you. End, Mr. Fernández Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u241	This is what will happen, and that is what we defend as a good result of the quality of Spanish democracy. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u242	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u243	Mr. President, thank you very much again. We are not going to support this, and basically because, as you said a minute ago, your proposal does not say things that are simply not reality. And I want, as I have five minutes, to refer briefly to each one of them. First, you say that political conflicts must be resolved politically. I think that, as a principle, looks good, it's a good principle. Solving matters speaking politically is interesting. But you forget something that is essential in a state of federal court like ours; they are precisely characterized by a judicial resolution of political conflicts, and that's precisely why the Constitutional Court exists. An illustrious Spanish constitutionalist, Juan José Solozabal, has said that: What has achieved the autonomous state is that territorial conflicts have not been presented in essentialist terms, such as a collision between identities or loyaltys, but as a competition dispute, brought up in legal terms and in them soluble by the courts. In particular, when there is a problem in politics, there are courts — in this case the Constitutional — that resolve political conflicts. Precisely this professor recalls that it was in 1934, not in 1939, when there was the first problem with the Catalan Generalitat, in times of the reign of the Second Republic; because it was in 1934 when for the first time a government — in this case the Catalan region — disobeyed an order from the Constitutional Guarantee Court of the Republic. In this aspect — and I would also like to point out, as has already been said — this same professor who said in July that the recourse to article 155 was problematic, however, once it was applied, he said that the decisions of the Government, which were adopted under the authorization of the Senate, as required by the Constitution, respect the principle of proportionality, especially at the time of its adequacy; they suppose a limited intervention even enough to achieve the sought purpose, which is no other — as it corresponds to a democracy — to let the electoral body be the basis for dealing with the political situation that was followed by the unconstitutional behaviour of the Generalitat. So, first of all, we are faced with the logical resolution of a conflict that occurs when a state authority like the Generalitat authorities abandon the Constitution. Second question. They say they are not allowed to exercise the right to self-determination of the Catalan people. First, in the Constitution, of course, there is no right to self-determination. But if we applied the category of what the right to self-determination means internationally, Catalonia would not be subject to collective exercise of that right. We are not in front of a colony, we are not violating the rights of minorities, and anyone who sees how the powers and decisions of the Catalans work, of course we cannot talk about persecution. Some may want to say that there is persecution to give the idea that there is a right and violation of the right to self-determination. Mr Bará, if you confuse the situation in Catalonia democratic and autonomous with the situation in Sahara or the situation in Kurdistan, then we have a problem of understanding too, because they have nothing to do with the exercise of autonomy and power by the autonomous authorities with the possibilities that the massacred Saharan and Kurdistan peoples have. [[Applause]] Third look. They speak of voting that 155 was a democratic troupe. I believe there has been a democratic troupe: the House's Rules of Procedure have been violated by passing the laws of disconnection and referendum against the report of the House's legal services; the mandate of the Catalan State Security Council has been violated, which said that the regulations were being breached; they were against the Statute. The Catalonian Statute, which was not dealt with by the Constitutional Court, was adopted and which supported, in its Article 222 of the Statute, the status reform requires a majority of two-thirds. They modify the Status to the point where it ceases to have vigil, and obviously they do it with a much smaller majority. They were against the Constitution itself, which does not contemplate the right that you say is not to be exercised; they were against the instructions of the Constitutional Court and even disobeyed the judges, in the case of the referendum, who said that a referendum could not be made in condition under those circumstances. Of course, there is a democratic involution, and they have also closed the Catalan Parliament, and the opposition has been more than a month without being able to control its government, which was on other issues. Fourth reason. Power division. Some reference was also made. I, Mr. Villares, am glad to hear that a judge says there is independence from the judiciary. I know there are criminals who are against the independence of the judiciary, as they are against private property and many other things, but the evidence that the independence of the judiciary exists is that those who are trying to rape are where they are. And by the way, there's none here, they're all where they have to be, being judged by an independent judiciary, as are those who violated the Constitution in the case of the Catalan Process. I take advantage of it to say that instrumentalizing justice is not to denounce something to justice. Instrumentalizing justice is to come here and because there's a car, because there's a prosecutor, because there's a statement until there's a firm sentence, it's year by year generalizing a person's behavior to a collective that has nothing to do with that individual behavior. That's really instrumentalizing justice. [[Applause]] And when there's a prosecutor who's doing a favor report, that's manipulated; and when there's a prosecutor who's reporting against it, that's a good prosecutor. That's how it is to manipulate justice! We will always respect justice, judicial independence and all the actors in the judiciary. Yes, sir. And those who give martyrdom are also in front of justice, so justice is working well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u244	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u245	And, of course, with a government of the People's Party, we also have to say that. Fifth reason. One thing is having ideas and another thing is acting. It is possible to be secessionist in Spain. The Spanish Constitution — I remind you — has in Article 166 the expectation that autonomous parliaments may address the Congress and submit a proposal for constitutional reform. It's 87.2 of the Constitution. So it is true that you can defend yourself, and you can defend the right to self-determination and the reform of the Constitution from an autonomous Parliament. So, if what they did was outside the Constitution, it's not because the Constitution doesn't allow the debates...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u246	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u247	...it's just because of that. Yes, I'll finish. The bad thing about unilateral declaration of independence is that he broke...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u248	You've been almost two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u249	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u250	No, no, look out. In time, I do... in careful time, that I control it very much. Go finish, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u251	... families, many of them of Galician origin, introduced territorial divisions, is making an economic disaster with companies, heritage and savings of people from the community who left their bank domiciled in Catalonia. They're doing a great deal of damage to the whole economy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u252	Thank you, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u253	Obviously, we, from Galicia, especially from Galicia, will not support the separatism of the rich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u254	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u255	This applause from the People's Group has already said it all. They have to... they're like kids! [[Applause]] A very childly reaction on his part. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u256	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u257	First of all, to say that we are not going to accept the amendments, an amendment to replace the En Marea Group, because much of the text is already included in the BNG proposal and there are some issues in which we have some discrepancies, and therefore we do not accept them. With regard to the intervention of the Socialist Group which referred to the legality and compliance of the law, of course, he did not want to hear or not understand the whole historical process to which I have referred for the last ten years, which explains why we have come to that situation. The Socialist Party, the truth, has also been changing its stance over this time, because it is true that it has defended the Statute promoted by Pascual Maragall, but then it has also given legitimacy to all the anti-democratic and repressive decisions of the People's Party, including that absolutely abusive and unconstitutional use of Article 155 itself, as I shall explain later. Mr Puy says that if he has given him a political response by means of a ruling from the Constitutional Court, reform of the Constitutional Court which has also been included in the media in recent times, when it is clear and more evident that the Constitutional Court is an absolutely partisan court and that it has been against, he has laminated and liquidated a statute which had been approved by the Catalan Parliament, by the Parliament of the State — yes, brushed — and was thrown down by the Constitutional Court. If that's politically solving a conflict, I don't know, there you are! Indeed, Article 155, with this abusive application that you have done, is unconstitutional, because when the Constitution was debated, one of your parents, Mr. Fraga, made an amendment asking that 155 include the suspension of autonomy and convening elections and that amendment was not approved, and now, when it is not in the drafting of that article, it has been applied to that conjunction. You also speak of the autonomy of the judiciary, and there was really a coordinated and joint action of all the powers of the State: the Executive, the Legislative, the Judicial, the Police, the Military and all, by action or by default, to put things in their place, because here everything remains in the Constitution tied and well tied. Finally, tell the gentlemen and also the ladies of the PSOE and the People's Party that you have been — because you are a great defender of legality and laws — precisely questioning the laws — and we have thousands of such examples — how humanity has advanced and how we will advance as a people, both Galicia and Catalonia, as well as the Sahara, as Palestine, as Kurdistan or all the peoples of the world who are seeking their freedom.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u258	Thank you, Mr Bará. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the development by the Galician Union, in accordance with article 14 of the Law 11/2007 and in collaboration with the public universities of Galicia, of the actions necessary to ensure the incorporation of a specific subject for training in prevention and attention to gender violence in the field of the University Master's Degree in Compligatory Secondary Education and Bachelor's degree, Vocational Training and Language Teachings
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u259	There are amendments from all groups that have representation in the House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u260	To formulate the proposal you have the floor to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u261	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again. We brought this initiative from the Galego Nationalist Block, and as an initial reflection we wanted to remember that patriarchy and masculine violence do not understand races, social status, geographic location, profession, or age. His samples are absolutely normalized, dulcified and, on many occasions, invisible in our society, but he doesn't understand profiles, and assuming this should make from institutions and from society a step as fundamental as it is to show this circumstance to progress collectively. In this way, we understand that prevention must be a fundamental step. Not only to pay attention to violence when it is practiced, but to act from the very capacity that we have to prevent it and to eradicate it at its source. Last week they went out in public, and first made the Socialist Party's voicer mention, the conclusions of the 2017 Barometer of the Queen Sofia Center on adolescence and youth. He made quite an alarm, quite controversial on social networks and enough headlines, for warning that almost 30% of the boys and girls between the ages of 15 and 29 believed that male violence was a normal conduct in the context of the couple. We have other studies in the field closer to our reality about the incidence of violence in youth. For example, what indicates a study that has developed in the past the representation of the Crown, which has developed an important field study as a prior research work to develop the "Delete Control" program, which has reached more than 14 municipalities and more than 600 boys and girls. It's a very complete study I recommend. You can access it on the website. It makes a diagnosis of what comes to be the perception of macho violence in the surveyed teenagers. It shows interesting questions, some of them that combine optimism, show that there are a lot of progress made. For example, a high recognition of the signs that identify as behaviors of unhealthy and sexist relationships. But yet it also shows that it is not all achieved and that, for example, not all forms of violence, nor all behaviors that involve situations of ill-treatment, are identified as such. For example, the low perception of psychological abuse as such is alarming. More than half thinks that abuse is just physical, that it's just blows, and not any other kind of violence. It also shows the terrible vigil of the myths of romantic love. And it also shows another very interesting question, that there are differences between the centers and that there are, therefore, issues in the education of these people who may be influencing that perception; that not all are the centers, but not all are the families. This study, and any other study that could have developed or could have been done in the past, are showing lines to walk, weaknesses but also strengths, and this is the scenario we think of from the BNG that must intervene, that you have to squeeze out the legal framework that already exists and go from theory to practice, and for that it would be very interesting to include a specific subject to ensure the initial training of the teacher in this secondary case. We think it's absolutely essential to educate those who are educated, to give them keys so that in situations of macho violence, and also to prevent it, they can act. As of the 2007 Act of Prevention and Comprehensive Treatment of Gender Violence, which we have mentioned this afternoon, specifically mentioned the importance of the youth population and the important and strategic education. And also Article 14 collects how educational administrations should ensure in all the conductive studies — very textually — "the obtaining of university titles in disciplines that enable the exercise of professions that are directly related to gender violence incorporate these contents." This is what theory says, however, practice still retains many lakes that motivate us to present this initiative. There is, in our view, an important vacuum in the training required and offered to teaching staff. They may, for example, voluntarily do some of the equality courses offered within the training and resources centres, or also welcome participation in the Project plans, but, look!, this is voluntary. In any case, we think that resources and demands are lacking, and something as important as what we're talking about, this training, it can't depend on volunteering. We understand that there is also a lack of commitment on the part of the Government of Greece to develop its plans. We have, for example, almost recently out of the price, not a year, the first Action Plan for Equality in the education centres of the year 2016 to 2020, which we understand that, if you don't work with the centers and simply send it, you will remain — if it doesn't depend on a team that welcomes you — in mere wet paper. Also, for example, in the same line, the Book on Gender Identity, which follows a similar fortune. But we still understand that our country is also a positive example. We do not want to miss the opportunity that this initiative gives us to highlight the very important work that in many of the country's centres are carrying out magnificent and magnificent teachers. We have a wide network that is an important crop broth that we have to take advantage of in our favor to accelerate and improve collectively. For example, the Lila Committee of the IES Dionysio Gamallo, of Ribadeo, or the IES Equality Command Alexandre Boveda, of Vigo, driven by an absolutely referencel and multi-primary teacher like Mercedes Oliveira, pioneer in our country, and also at the state level, in gender and sexual education. Two examples of two extremes of geography, Ribadeo and Vigo. And you will also have to allow me your lordships, speaking of Vigo, that it is inevitable to make a specific mention to our comrade and Member until recently in this House, Carme Adán, who is also doing a very important work on issues such as cyber-acoustics or the visibility of the LGTBI group, with companions like Ana Ojea, at Vigo Polytechnic IES. Experience shows that we have an important sample of previous experiences throughout the territory, and that when we accompany the Administration, which often exists and is there, as is the Project Plan, it allows for progress, but we want them not to be isolated cases, as was said before, and that it is a bigger crop broth. For example, the Project Plan was what allowed the printed publication of the "Book of Bad Love", these haikus against gender violence that came out of IES Laxeiro, from Lalin, and that they also counted with the collaboration of the world of culture and with the collaboration of many more people and many more involved agents than pupils and students themselves and that the teacher himself, enriching much more the work that can be done in this matter, involving parents and mothers and also involving society in general. We insist that there is sensitivity, that there are experiences and that, with more information and with more training, we would be able to get much more there. From BNG we think that by responsibility, both to the victims and potential victims as well as to the society as a whole, as well as to the future professor himself, we have to demand and facilitate that they are prepared to detect these types of situations. We understand that we must ensure and improve the training and training of teaching staff, starting with those people who will be or are in initial training. As their lordships know, since the course of 2009 and 2010, the teaching teacher, the well-known teacher, who has a terriblely long name, has become indispensable for access to the teaching role, both in public and private education, and indispensable for presenting himself to any opposition. Therefore, we understand that it is common sense that specific training should be incorporated into this master's degree that advances in identification, detection, prevention and intervention of situations of this type. We understand that today this training continues to depend primarily on the will and willingness of the teachers and teachers of this master. If we look at the programs, and it's true that if we look at the memories, it gets faked into inputs and markers like equality, but we have the feeling that in a very automatic way, the same way that we mention the need for group jobs or other types of values that are common, general and logically enforceable, and that appear within the legal framework. But, for example, if we take the programs that appear summarized on any web portal, such as that of the University of Santiago de Compostela, we see how the words masculine violence do not appear anywhere. We understand that it is important to focus our efforts and that it is good that we often have macro debates in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u262	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u263	...—ending, yes— but here we have a very concrete proposal and we are already talking about compromise proposals for your approval with the groups of this House. We believe that, despite the differences in nuances that introduce the amendments, it will be possible to reach an agreement, and we trust that this in the future will also be receptive by the university community and that this matter can be added to strengthen and give importance and visibility to that training and the importance of a question such as the teaching of future Greeks and Greeks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u265	Thank you. The improvement of training in equality and in prevention and attention to the macho violence of those and those in which the formation of our children and adolescents, as well as young and adolescent girls, is one of the priorities of the State Pact itself, as it has also been one of the points in the very presentation adopted by the Equality Commission of this Parliament, and it is a complaint that has come from behind and that the Socialist Party itself has been pursuing for years. This group believes that the introduction of cross-sectional content is essential in the subjects that form part of the secondary teacher training master's programmes, as well as those of children. If we set up that base and the classes become the first palpable example of equality, in which we work to overthrow gender stereotypes, to promote co-responsibility or to avoid discrimination on the basis of gender, the progress in equal coexistence of the future of these children and children will be much more feasible. We also began earlier, with the other initiative driven by this group, as there is a demolition among young people, who understand by 30% that gender violence is a difficult to avoid. That normalization of violence, especially in matrimonial relationships, is at least alarming, and frankly disappointing, for the effort that has been made for years, and that gives us a clue how essential it is to act more forcefully and from an early age. This parliamentary group therefore agrees, in the main part of this initiative, however, has tabled a substitution amendment to the non-law proposal put forward by the Group of the BNG that intends to nude some point which we felt we needed to point out. Organic Law 1/2004, of 28 December, of measures to protect against gender-based violence, advocates in its Article 7 for inclusion, and says: "...a specific training in the field of equality". The paper adopted in the Committee on Equality, which was agreed by all the groups of this House, states in its section 5 on education: "Introducing mandatory content in the field of equality, prevention and detection of macho violence in the training plans for the teaching body", as it is collected and referred to in article 7 of the Organic Law. And the State Covenant itself also refers to the inclusion of curricula with specialized content, the inclusion of competences or the introduction of modules. So we make this appreciation, considering that it is more appropriate to talk about the introduction of content in training, which is precise and cross-sectional, but this question that we believe is important to nuance, and cannot force the introduction of specific subjects by autonomy for the programming of the content with which it counts — and we understand that correctly — to this day the University. And we also point out the need for the content to include equal training, and not only training in prevention and attention to masculine violence. In any case, the proposed group proposes a transaction in which requests are collected from all groups, a transaction that we will study and on which we will be positioned tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u266	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. The Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea has the floor to Mrs Chao Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u267	Good afternoon, everyone. It goes on that from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea we will support this non-law proposal, and we will support it because it coincides in its essence with some of the measures this parliamentary group brought to this House a few months ago, when we brought a battery of proposals to fight against the violence of the Machos in the classrooms. We are talking about the need for an equal training plan for the teaching staff. Not everything is in school, they repeated the voices of the People's Party over and over again. Not everything is in school, he repeated again and again the teaching counselor. Deliberately ignoring the transformer character that owns the school. By disregarding the capacity of the education centres, the teachers and teachers in this country, to transform the future of Greek society. We regret that, so we hope this non-legislative proposal by the Galician Nationalist Group has more and better luck. Of course, it would be good news for everyone, because not everything is in school, of course, but there is much that can and should be in schools, because the absence of specific training on equality in the faculty is really worrying. As noted here, at present the teacher does not receive a single compulsory subject of gender. There is neither in the magisterial career nor in the secondary education teachers needed to teach at the secondary stage. That is why we tabled our amendment, which we hope the Galego Nationalist Block Group will have to include, but if it is not — as we said — we will also support this GNP, since we believe that specific training in the prevention and detection of macho violence must reach all levels of training, should include the teachers of the institutes, because in the end and after all it is the one who deals every day with young people and girls in the ages when the first relationships of couples begin and, at the time, the first symptoms of the most visible machist violence. You've been told here today, there are alarm reasons when more than 1 in 4 girls and girls consider violence normal within the couple. But we think that we should not only act with them, we should also include the primary and child teachers, so that these professionals contain the tools needed to work on equality from the first few years, a stage where we need to remember that the first stereotypes of gender are established, according to a study published early in the year in Science magazine. The stage in which the first pillars of inequality are established, the stage in which it is therefore necessary to work to form a culture of equality. Thus, in our proposal we are talking about an initial and compulsory training in equality, prevention of macho violence and co-education for all levels, both in the degrees of university and in the masters of secondary education, but also a necessary supply of further education. Less isolated courses and more comprehensive programming, which we said a few months ago. Fewer isolated courses and more comprehensive programming for schools to be a real trench against machismo and inequality. Less isolated courses and more comprehensive programming for teachers to have all the tools needed to transmit them to children to detect situations of inequality, and, of course, the tools needed to fight them. Because yes, there's macho violence in schools, like there's macho violence in the rest of society. They know that there are many studies that show it and many of them have already been commented on in this gallery, but we can refer to one who, although he was a few years old — a study carried out by the Institute of Women in 2008 — put precisely the focus on the topic of male violence in the classroom. According to this study, I quote textually: "Children who attend primary school receive aggression from their companions and companions caused by gender stereotypes and based on male supremacy over women, serving this to consolidate future behaviors towards women." We think that we have to break up with this, that we have to train teachers and teachers to serve as brakes against machismo and all its forms of violence, so that they and they are the first to explain to the girls that the reason they're going to have worse wages, more precarious work, is called machoism; that the cause that they're going to be marked, questioned, watched, and can be beaten, it's called machoism; that jealousy is not love proof, but proof of machoism, and machoism can and must be fought. The fundamental question is: are they using all the means available to fight against male violence in classrooms? If we don't, let's think about it, because we really don't know that what we're doing is not enough. We therefore hope that today's consensus will be possible. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u268	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mr Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u269	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. The truth is, there's a question that's clear. From the tone of the debate of the various speeches of the vocabularies that preceded me in the use of the word, I think it is also clear. And it is that, if there is any scope, within what is the development of political work, both of a government and in this case of a parliament, in which we must focus all efforts to eradicate, probably, what is the greatest scourge we have in society today, is the scope of the violence of the masculine. In that sense, I believe that we must all have a firm commitment to work precisely in all areas to try to eradicate this scourge of our society. Because by eradicating this scourge, our society, of course, will be a better society, indisputably. And we tabled an amendment to this proposal not for law on a very simple matter: because we wanted or understood that it was necessary to point out two questions that we wanted them to be present. One of them was to point out university autonomy — I refer to Mrs Pierres in her speech on this issue. As everyone knows, the organic law of universities enshrines in its article 2 university autonomy. In the case in which we are concerned, this article literally draws up in point 2(d) that the autonomy of universities includes the development and approval of study and research plans and specific lifelong learning. So, as we're all going to agree, it's universities that have to determine, in accordance with this current legislation, the curricula. The contents of these are subsequently verified by the Agency for the Quality of the University System of Galicia, and after having fulfilled the corresponding procedure for renewing university titles. With this in mind, it seems clear that the Union should not interfere in this autonomy of universities, in such a way that it should only propose or suggest the possibility, by instance of a parliamentary agreement, of the implementation of a specific subject of this content. But we must also take into account — and this was another issue that we wanted to make clear in our amendment — that, as it could not be otherwise, universities are already providing their teachers' teachers with the necessary standards, both in the field of university education and in the field of equality and prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender violence. We think it's not good to move to society that's not doing anything, because this isn't. That there is no specific subject does not mean that future teachers are not trained to be trained and that they can act in comprehensive prevention and treatment of gender-based violence. There are several subjects with which knowledge and, besides, how new pedagogical trends are formed, in competences on this subject, future teachers. From the People's Group it seems good that the existence of the transmission of competences through different subjects decided on in the corresponding curricula, if any, can be complemented by a specific matter — as this proposal does not require law — but always with the character and content of the universities themselves. We understand, and we believe that everyone can agree with us, that it seems more appropriate to let universities decide on the methodology and organization of training with which they must enable the acquisition of knowledge and skills in the field of equality and fight against gender violence by future teachers. Both degrees and masters already allow, according to the corresponding curriculums, to acquire knowledge and, above all, competences in the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence. It should also be remembered that the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Education also has plans for the permanent training of teachers who are directed to professionals who already exercise in public education centres. Of course, training actions also address the transmission of competences in terms of coexistence, resolution of conflicts in equality and the fight against gender-based violence. Finally, I believe that all present we know that the Council cannot force, although it may transfer Parliament's interest by suggesting to the three Greek universities which, in exercise of their competence and will, study and decide on the appropriateness of modifying the curricula and the university master's degree that enables the exercise of the teaching profession, with the aim of introducing this specific matter in relation to gender violence. We agree that the fight against gender-based violence has to be done since education. But we're also aware that we have to talk about education, understanding it in a broad sense, because we're not just talking about education at school. And I repeat these words, which is not only education at school, but also family education, teacher education, system education, mass media education, administration education, etc.; finally, education and social awareness. Of course, with that perspective and with those hopes of improving to eradicate this scourge that strikes our society, they can always count on us to carry out everything that will enable us to improve this situation. On the other hand, we are simply waiting for an agreement here to be reached by the vote. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. Mrs. Presas Bergantinos has the floor on the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u271	Thank you, Vice President. Since BNG we're going to have to start working on more such initiatives, such as education, gender and education, in which they are found to be less controversial than others or more permeable to dialogue. Still no one told us we were politicizing, something I appreciate. And I also appreciate the tone and the will to build. For bringing up a few more questions, there was a lot of talk here that the contents were already transversal or that they should be transversal. We agree that they must be transversal. And a matter of this kind must not rule out that logically those contents work otherwise in other matters. It's like we're saying that other types of values only fit into a particular matter and not more. It is true that, in theory, these types of values and the question of equality and others should cross all matters. But the truth is, in the transit of theory to practice, we observe, by our experience and by what we have contrasted, that ends up depending on that teacher. As for what we're talking about is whether it should be a matter or not, we think that yes, that giving the body that there is a specific matter allows there to be a frame where you really have to work that specifically. By my own experience, because I ran this master in particular, I can say that the subjects are very small, sometimes from two credits, two weeks or three weeks. And, therefore, often the privilege of some subjects and some content about others depends on the circumstances of the teacher himself and what he evaluates. And, therefore, a specific matter is not excessive, it's not like we're talking about matters of much longer duration and they have to go to the detriment of other contents. And so it would be an interesting way to cover a space that we think these contents are only cross-sectionally not covering. We think it would also be an opportunity — I insist — for this to be done in a practical way and not in theory. Because in theory there is also the recommendation — and so does the Galician Board itself, the Education Council itself and the legislation itself — that there be acts, for example, and activities itself around November 25 at each educational centre. But if we go to each center, reality is very different in how it works or if we stop working. And another issue that came out was the autonomy of the university. We agree with that, we understand that, as Parliament, we advise. Perhaps not even the name that we put in this proposal in BNG itself is the most advanced, because we would also have to evaluate the treatment and prevention of other types of violence, such as the one about the LGBTI collective. We advise, it's our job. And if there's a receptivity from the university, it'll move on. We understand that it is especially important that we "intermit" — among other things — when we are talking about a profession that affects our public good in teaching and that affects the specific training for someone to engage in this profession, and which, therefore, could be enriched. I'm running out of time. I will simply comment, on the issue of primary or childhood, that we agree with the spirit of what Mrs Chao was transferring, but we understand that we are talking about very different areas and with very different complexities. We have already put forward initiatives to deal with the specific issue of primary education, and also with regard to the schools of mothers and parents, in that sense that we want to take all responsibility from the schools. But we understand that in this short time it is complex to explain the differences.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u273	But because of the different training of the teacher who will be enrolled in high school, because of the different training of the primary school, also in time and years, we understand that there are different measures to be taken and that we have to discuss it with the thread of other types of initiatives.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u274	On the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u275	And I'm done. I'm talking about amendments. This is an amendment from the Marea Group, Mr. Santalices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u276	But would you accept them? Do you accept?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u277	I'm done. I simply want to point out that for us the state pact on this issue is absolutely incomplete, it remains short. For example, in point 12, the State covenant talks about competences on this issue for secondary education; and, however, for the primary if it provides...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u278	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u279	...those specific materials...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u280	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u281	...that we will have an opportunity to discuss how to complement them in primary school.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u282	Thank you, Mrs Bergantiños.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u283	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u284	Thank you. Do you accept, then?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u285	No, no, there's a deal proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u286	Perfect. Okay. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and D. Luis Villares Naveira, on the creation by the Galician Union of an anti-corruption office where possible cases of corruption in the Italian public sector can be reported anonymously
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u287	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are bringing to plenary a proposal for ethics, transparency and democracy which we believe is transversal and in which we all want to clear the name of the policy and the name of the institutions of this country. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that they have achieved a great milestone: that corruption is displaced from the second concern of citizens and citizens to take over their place in Catalonia. One of the territories, by the way, is one of the highest levels of corruption in the state — in this case, responsibility of the 3% —. But unfortunately — and for his misfortune — corruption, because it's shifted at the CIS, it's not gone. And, for example, we are not talking about the trial of the greatest criminal and corrupt plot of our democratic history, the trial of Gürtel, related to Mr Aznar's ministers. It seems that between accused and investigated are 11 out of 14. Between Gürtel and Lezo he's almost no longer left him free of suspicion. Or from the roles of his former treasurer, Luis Bárcenas, where Mr. Rajoy comes out. Sunrises! Who do you think could be Mr. Rajoy? Or has it nothing to do with you? Did you hear the UDEF Chief Inspector? Is this the ravine of corruption that Mrs. Paula Prado was talking about yesterday? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party of Galicia, in the last municipal elections, you presented 15 candidates for mayors charged with corruption: that of Fistra was for trafficking in influences, prevarication and shellfish; that of Carballino, for trafficking in influences and revelation of secrets; that of Malpica, illegal urban licenses; that of Abegondo, illegal urban licenses—like that of Pino—; that of Sada had four charges; that of Coristanco, for prevarication and abuse of trust; in Ourrense they competed; that of Xinzo de Limia; that of Rairiz de Veiga; the mayor of Melón, who succeeded in his office when he was disabled by prevarication; that of the Porriño, investigated by prevarication and trafficking of influences. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, will you continue to be like the ostrich, with her head beneath the earth and playing around? Or are you going to assume your responsibility and deal with the problem, a problem called "structural corruption of the People's Party in Galicia"? Are we talking in the Greek Parliament about Galician problems or are we talking about Iran and Venezuela and you still making fun of it? It's the difference between truth and truth. That's in all the quarrels for slanders that have always pushed against us, and those that have lost others after accusing us of lies and infamy. While they are still eating meals with others of their ex-member solemns, now repudiated, like Mr Granados, before attending the Senate commission, what credibility will you have? None! They used the Ministry of the Interior and political commissioners to invent false evidence against the opposition, to oppose the opposition, of whom they made reference yesterday at the same time trying to cover up their misery to cover up their president's misery, Mr. Rajoy. But follow and follow the filmed album of Venezuela and Iran! What is not with it is the wild beast of Venezuela and Iran against whom he denounces the corrupt acts of members of the popular governments or members of his organization. He has no legitimacy or to lie to us who is a member of an organization charged with corruption and an organization that has the dirty hands of the public theft in all unimaginable ways. Yes, in all forms: cowardice, solicitation or obtaining gifts, trafficking in influence, insults, revelation of secrets, disobedience to authority, misrepresentation of funds, violation of labour rights, illegal recruitment, manipulation of censuses... you have all of them, you have even disobeyed, as in Boboras, where the party of 155 does not meet either the requirements of Heritage or the judicial orders. And look, as you always try to argue that this corruption of the PP is about Madrid, just like they had to go off, PPdeG gentlemen. Because if they have nothing to do with their Madrid, Valencia and Murcia compañeros, except to visit and to parties, or to deal with matters of financing and the "grey areas", as Mr. Feijóo said, of their organization, because they went off but did not cheat on the lonely. But the problem is that this corrupt plot has great ramifications in Galicia, as we have seen since the previous session. And this, more importantly, is one of the epicenters of the Welsh plot, an epicenter that is the Greek PP. In fact, the Chief Inspector of the UDEF, in Congress, in the investigation commission on illegal financing of the parties, specifically asked about you, about the German PP along with the Valencian and the Madridan, and it wasn't us. I imagine it'll sound as well. And this question goes down with multiple cases and corrupt actions that we quote countless times, too many, and that we will continue to quote until you remove your head from the ground and follow the ostrich tactics. And you know why? Not because it's a wildling, what happens is it costs us too much money when this country and its people don't get us left. And that hurts. It hurts us because, after sessions such as yesterday's, budgets, we realize that it's infamous, just as people in this country are suffering, that they continue to be political based on business, in the public business, in all kinds of public contracts to the detriment of citizenship and what they need. But, of course, you've won once again for the most part. Then, impunity, no kind of shame or self-criticism. They think that citizenship will continue to grant them a blank check year after year based on their iron control of the "deinformation" media, the TVG, an instrumental administration, a caciquil, clientele network, which does nothing but work for you -- in a multitude of cases with public resources -- to perpetuate itself in power by giving you crumbs to a majority who believe in them and to which they cheat. You're going to follow in the good hunt, what did Baltar say father before inheriting the Baltar son charge? The good kacique ended with nine years of continuous prevarication disability. What a pride! But in Ourense, of course. What's the matter? They shouldn't even be tried, with so much popular support. But you have to keep the law, that's worth it. And citizens and citizens will have to have answers, even though you're going to keep trying to convince them that there are good caps and that that way of vampirical social structuring, by putting a lightbulb or takin' a hunch on the track of their house, it shows that they're looking for the good of the majority, for their own good, and that corruption is a lesser evil. Fortunately, in the cities of Galicia people don't believe them anymore, and that's why they go to the newspapers of the People's Party to defame the left-wing municipal governments, which is pathetic, pathetic! They are not ashamed that the late general tax officer of the state, Mr. Maza -- not suspicious, by his trajectory, of being progressive, but rather of his stick, immobilist -- there was no other remedy to acknowledge that in Galicia, by the levels of corruption, we needed a specific anti-corruption prosecution for our country. Meanwhile, you have not stopped voting against this measure proposed from En Marea on every occasion. They vote against it, just as they vote against almost all our measures in the field of anti-corruption and democratic regeneration, and they continue to have a policy absent from really betting on transparency and the fight against these practices. The Greeks and the Greeks have lived for forty years of social post-Franquism, in which the cacic practices and use for their own benefit, and of the friends and followers, of the institutions have definitely sown the suspicion and discredit of the governments between citizenship, be of the colour that they are — although we will not deceive ourselves nor fall into unfair fairness, nor into coffee for everyone. In Galicia they went and are mostly from the People's Party of Fraga, the Baltars and Mr. Feijóo. A nation like the Galician nation in which corruption is not pursued clearly and directly is a sick, very sick nation in which social progress is bottled up and equality and coexistence is endangered. They stop waving flags because their homeland is neither Galicia nor Spain, their homeland is another: giving money to their pockets. Today we bring a proposal for consensus, a measure that is on the street and which already applies in countries that are not suspected of being Bolivarian, such as Germany or Scandinavian countries. A measure that acts preventively against corruption, something as simple as that of the Greeks and the Greeks having a mailbox where they anonymously denounce practices that indicately hide cases of corruption. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Aren't we all tired of listening to the people who say, "In such a town, they give their works to the finger," "if you want to do something there, you have to go through this company," "to this selective process of public employment don't you see that there are already the given squares"? Why can't we simply channel to neighbors and neighbors something as simple as a mailbox where something might be wrong on the table? The People's Party has a certain tendency to blame the slowness of justice to defend itself from the cases of corruption that drown it, and that is often the responsibility of the People's Party itself to the slowness of the administration of justice. PP gentlemen, here in Galicia we can follow in Pokemon, in Patos, in Pikachu, Champion, Ingotes, Manga, Núpel, Ora, Orchestra, Carioca, Vendex or Zeta, and we can follow this all afternoon, or we seek measures to act dissuasively against the corrupt. We also speak of anonymity, of the anonymous mailbox, because a clear example of what is needed is the King's Palace, where a court sentence collects a conviction from the People's Party for harassing a public worker who has denounced irregularities. And that's what you want, do you want us to continue in fear of cacical franchise for another 40 years? We, of course, don't. We believe in a 21st-century administration, transparent and in the service of people. That's why — and I am finished — we have urged the Galician Group to set up an anti-corruption office from which individual officials or individuals can anonymously denounce possible cases of corruption in the Greek public system. We're waiting for your vote too, gentlemen of the People's Party, because the opposite would mean they're worried...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u289	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u290	...what happened and what happens, and what they're trying to do is hide what's going on. You should then explain why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u292	Good afternoon again. The other day, there was a cartoon, or an illustration, of the Carrabouxo in which one of the characters said, "With so much butifarra you don't see the choruses." We've talked before the Butterflies, now we'll talk a little bit about the chourices, both Spanish and the country. And I would ask the Members and Members of the People's Party what their feelings are, whether they're proud or ashamed, when they see that lamentable and indecent spectacle of corruption that day after day will lead their party, militants of their party, public charges of their party, from here, from there and there, that real Mr. Feijóo spoke earlier of En Marea's voice that he called this as the "grey areas" of the People's Party. I think they're more brown, brown and quite fedoring, with that glaring and shameful show of the phone conversations that are broadcasting to us these days, the show of the roles of the Bárcenes, the ministers and high-ranking positions of the processed and convicted People's Party, the endless list of cases and/or statements such as those of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Consider: "The existence of a box "b" in the People's Party has been fully and abundantly accredited. There is still evidence that the People's Party benefited from the plot of corruption, which did not benefit the State and the Spaniards. Anticorruption calls for the People's Party's condemnation of profit with the Gürtel." Processed by the People's Party for the destruction of hard drives and accounting "b". Well, after all this and much more than I'm not quoting now, because I don't have time, I don't know if I'm ashamed and I don't know if they plan on returning all that the prosecutors say, for example, that they've stolen. I don't know if you're going to give it back. And, of course, it seems that people are already so used to this that it's something so routine that it's already a little tired. And this is just a small part of the problem, because, in addition, the European Union itself recently reminded them, in a report which was published last spring, a very critical report with the Spanish State, that there are no specific preventive strategies developed in this State to combat the risks of corruption, that there is a lack of legislation to protect complainants, that there is a lack of regulation of pressure groups or that judicial procedures for corruption cases are excessively prolonged. And this here in Galicia we also know a lot. No longer to enter the debate now — we have talked about this other times — of what we understand for corruption. Because, of course, some of us have a little different concept than corruption from what you have. For us, of course, corruption is also the economic policy of the income of the working classes with all the measures they have adopted, legal measures which have adopted — including the reform of the Constitution — to favour the great fortunes and the bank, the permissiveness of tax havens, with the exception itself, with the legalization itself, of tax evasion; the use of the State apparatus to pursue political ideas or the changes of laws to benefit private interests. Here in Galicia we also know a little about this, which has much to do with the rotational doors that have led, for example — this for us is corruption; if it is not legal corruption, at least it is ethical corruption—, Mr. Aznar to the board of administration of Endesa; Mr. Felipe González to the one of Natural Gas; Mr. Borrell, who is now very present, to the board of administration of Abengoa; Mr. Acebes to the one of Iberdrola; Mr. Martín Villa, claimed by the justice of Argentina, to the one of Endesa—primarily, of course, not with a board of administration—; Elena Salgado, also to the one of Endesa; or Mr. Solana, also retired with substantial pay—we suppose—in the board of actiona management, etc. As for En Marea's proposal, which is the subject we are dealing with, we are going to support it. It seems to us that this is a rather generic proposal. In addition, there are mechanisms in the current system, for example, in the Board of Auditors, where such complaints could be made. What happens is that the People's Party doesn't have the necessary means because it doesn't care if these complaints are made. In any case, we'd prefer it to be an independent body, we'd prefer that the characteristics of this office or this organ be much more detailed, but we think of a proposal that can be positive and that's why we're going to support it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u293	Thank you, Mr Bará. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u294	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. We will obviously support this initiative by the En Marea Group to set up an office by the Galician Union to facilitate anti-corruption complaints. Because since the CIS — not us, but the CIS — comes month after month recalling that one of the main concerns of citizenship is precisely corruption, after unemployment, obviously we cannot forget that this is one of the main problems — I insist — of the main concerns, which has all citizenship. Let us also remember — as we remembered at some other initiative — how a group of states against corruption in the Council of Europe has already given rise to a severe correction, to a severe smallpox, to the failure of the Spanish authorities, to the authorities of the People's Party, to the fact that our country did not comply with any of the recommendations of the Council of Europe itself. And in this line of denunciation, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has been developing a decisive action on this so transcendental issue for our public life and the health of our democracy. We systematically present anti-corruption initiatives that have been systematically rejected by the People's Party in this House. And so, olympically, a motion was rejected by the People's Party at the plenary session on 9 May this year, in which we presented exactly eight clear and consistent measures against corruption practices, which were from the very beginning of the creation of a comprehensive system for the protection of persons reporting on corruption practices, all of which is the necessary regulation of interest groups, lobby groups, a whole set of initiatives that would increase public transparency in action by the Galician Council or precisely — which was mentioned in yesterday's debate of the Law on Measures — the material delimitation of the application of the laws of annual measures in tax matters or administrative matters, or the incorporation of the guidelines of the European Commission itself in the matter of Fraud Risk Assessment. But none of these initiatives were supported in this motion, which we tabled by the People's Group. And also, specifically, at the previous plenary session on 13 December 2016, we defended an NNP on the comprehensive protection of persons reporting on corrupt practices, also in a systematic manner, rejected by the People's Party. So as to whether the third party is going to win and get the support of the People's Party on some initiative that goes against the practices of corruption and for the protection of the people who denounce these situations Itziar González, Maite Carol, Fernando Urruticoechea, Albert Gadea, Carlos Martínez, are all persons, officials, citizens, who denounced corruption practices in Spain. And they shouldn't be — and they're not — heroes. They are citizens with principles. Recently, the Supreme Court ratified that the complainant from Gürtel, Ana Garrido, suffered harassment from the People's Party council to whom he denounced. Since he refused to sign irregularities in the Boadilla del Monte Town Hall ten years ago and put them in the knowledge of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office eight years ago, Ana Garrido has suffered threats, extortion, loss of work, a whole calvary, so the highest court has granted him a compensation of almost 100,000 euros, which were due to the age of the municipality itself denounced. If autonomous communities such as Balearics, such as Valencia, like Catalonia or even like Castile-Leon, where you rule, are able to legislate and establish mechanisms to fight this scourge of corruption, why are we, or, rather, you, here in Galicia not able? Even a medium-sized council, such as Culleredo, has just set up a channel of complaints, precisely with possible corruption practices in the application of European funds. We cannot understand — or if we understand — the attitudes of the People's Party against precisely any anti-corruption measures, just read every day virtually every media. By the way, the secretary of organization of the Galician People's Party, Pablo Crespo, has requested by the Prosecutor's Office for more than eighty years in prison at Gürtel, but we have Lezo, we have Punica... the People's Party — if it has been repeated but it must not be forgotten — is the first political party prosecuted for working precisely in practices of corruption with the destruction of the computers of Bárcenas. And so we have a hemerothec that almost one of us is ashamed to review in this House. Even in the last reform which entered Congress to illegalize corrupt parties, precisely during this mandate, it was adopted by all groups to take less consideration, precisely by the People's Party, which took forward its vote with abstention. Having really seen this terrifying plague of corruption that they caused in this country, I think the People's Party is out of play no longer to win but not even to play the party against corruption. And since — and I want to take advantage of — we are given lessons in constitutionalism here, precisely a constitutional commitment and an absolutely democratic commitment is also to fight against corruption. Nothing else and I hope this initiative will prosper.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u295	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Above all, thank you for the agenda, because, if you don't, we probably wouldn't know what the proposal I wanted to make today for The Tide, because you didn't talk about it. Look, The Tides of Podemos are going through internal crisis and, therefore, it is up to us to present an initiative with the aim of waving the People's Party. Are you arguing about Catalonia's independence? Bullshit the People's Party! Today's excuse is to propose anonymous denunciation as a formula for combating political corruption. They do so despite the fact that different international organizations advise it and recommend implementing confidentiality mechanisms in complaints, since they understand that due protection is guaranteed to the complainant of corruption while limiting the perverse and unwanted incentives of anonymous delation. Following these recommendations, the Greek Government has implemented confidentiality mechanisms, and today the Greeks can file their complaints through the Advisory Council. But Marea disagrees with the experts and thus illustrates today with an example that justifies the implementation of the anonymous denunciation: Palas de Rey, a case in which a municipal secretary, in the exercise of his functions, denounces alleged irregularities in municipal management. Does Marea intend the city secretaries' reports to be anonymous? I don't think so, but, as they're just looking for an excuse to beat the PP, you can rule out any rigor. The important thing here is jingling, screwing the People's Party. And for that it's all worth it, ladies and gentlemen, and for that they all add up. And, as everything goes, yesterday, an addition to the possibility, without getting colored, says in this House that 12 Aznar ministers are charged or convicted. He repeated today. It's absolutely false, so either mind or make a mistake. Perhaps that deputy just confused himself in the words of the party he has, or had, a dozen ministers charged or convicted, and referred to Barrionuevo, Corcuera, García Valverde, Asunción, López Aguilar, Serra, Borrell, Magdalena "Plan Galicia de shit" Álvarez, Grignan, Chaves, Blanco and Caballero. Indeed, 12!, 12 ministers. [[Applause]] And I hope that I have corrected your lordship's error, because the charges in data or with false data are nothing but a lie. And I didn't want any Member of this House to incur the sin of intrusion. He also said yesterday that in the past of his party there was nothing to be ashamed of. Aren't you ashamed of the condemned ministers?, not two cases of corruption?, not to fill up too many?, not to accompany the condemned ministers to jail? You may be proud! Well, we do, ladies. We are ashamed of the criminals who take advantage of our acronyms and our trust to profit at the expense of the citizens. We feel shame, and that's the first step, feeling shame. [[Applause]] The second step, the second step, is to pursue the corrupt. And the third is to take steps to prevent these actions from repeating. And that's what we did. Not only did you support most of these measures, you use them, in addition, to continue to starve the PP. Today, or yesterday, they said without any warning that the PP is charged at the Gürtel. It's not true, ladies. The imputation is a criminal figure involving participation in a criminal act. The PP is called to this process as a civil agent for profit, and that figure, Your Honor, implies two things, two things...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u297	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u298	...that the PP did not participate in the commission of the crime and, second, that the PP did not know that a crime was being committed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u299	No, no, shut up! Same respect for all of us! When they spoke before, no one moved. Same now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u300	One thing is true. This is the first time a party has been asked to take responsibility for the irregular actions of some of its members. And that's because the PP, with an absolute majority in the Courts, changed the legislation so that that might be possible. There were other occasions to do so. Do I remind them? The case Flickr, Filesa, Aid, AVE, Pallerols, Casinos, Tragaper Case, Round Box, Ferraz, Reptile Funds... But where PP adopted combat strategy, others preferred ostrich strategy. And now they come to teach us lessons. I don't accept them, gentlemen. I don't accept any lessons. As I don't accept any lessons from hypocrisy the cornerstone of his politics. Yesterday it was said - and it was said well - that we are not equal, gentlemen. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For you not to pay the social contributions of your employees is an act of charity; the fiscal election, an act of transparency; to insult the adversary, freedom of expression; to assault the political or pregnant opponents, to defend the workers' rights; Otegi is a man of peace; Leopoldo López is a terrorist; the Catalan coupsters are political prisoners and the opponents imprisoned in Cuba and Venezuela are common prisoners. Right, Mr. Bará? Spain is a well of corruption and Venezuela is an enviable democratic system. Of course we're not the same, fortunately! [[Applause]] They talk to us here at King's Palace. They forget Vimianzo, they forget Arzua, they forget Viveiro, they forget Melide and they also forget Camariñas or Bembriva, it won't be that the alliances are broken for the municipalities! Persecution, Your Honor, there are in Camarinas, where socialists have condemned, for a continuing crime of prevarication, Don Valeriano Alonso de León, mayor most known for "Pichurri". Mr. Villoslada knows that Pichurri has removed him. But when they're in the primary school, they forget them. Look at this beautiful picture!, photo of the recent socialist primarys: Pichurri, the local socialist mayors, and PSdeG Members headed by their voice. Beautiful portrait of socialist ethics, ladies and gentlemen, beautiful! Look, persecution is even worse in Bembriva, in the territories of the beloved leader and the champion of parliamentary escapism. There you have a Pedane Mayor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u301	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u302	...with a firm conviction for prevarication — seven years, firm condemnation. But for now they do not propose their expulsion because, literally, "the Federal Statutes of the Socialist Party determine that expulsion would be immediate if the judicial ruling proved to be a crime of corruption." But that's not the case. And I suppose...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u303	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u304	...this is the legal reform proposed by the opposition to combat corruption: that prevarication is not a crime of corruption and that we introduce in the Criminal Code the figure of prevarication (...)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u305	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u306	I'm done, Mr. President. That's the Galicia they want, a Galician where birds shoot guns, porn artists talk to us about feminism, and you teach us lessons about corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u307	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u308	We think the Greeks deserve something better, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u309	Thank you, Mr. Pazos. [[Applause]] [[Strong murmurers.]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u310	Thank you very much. The truth is that there's one word left, because this level, this level, this level, is that, really, at the end of the opposition stand, we're going to declare ourselves absolute fans of the Popular Group's disgrace in the replicas. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, without any kind of shame or any kind of... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u311	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u312	... rigour, nor any kind of self-criticism, without any sort of absolutely nothing, absolutely nothing! They suck at being the biggest party in the corruption of our country and Europe's history. It's an amazing thing, they suck! It's just something...! [[Applause]] Really, see to believe! [[Murmurs.]] And look, the truth is, there's a big difference between not only not being ashamed, but feeling proud of so many fellows and fellows at the state level, at the municipal level, whether Pablo Iglesias, whether Ada Colau, whether Manuela Carmena, whether Martino, whether Julius, whether Jorge... who are making a policy of real democratic regeneration in all the worlds, and who we're setting up against...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u313	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u314	...and that's why they attack anyone who shames them. And they usually do it with what we're on this bench. You're the ones who have to be ashamed, because they have the presidents, mayors and mayors of corruption. You must be ashamed! [[Applause]] It's you who have to feel deep shame. And, ladies and gentlemen, corruption is a problem that attacks the heart of democracy. It's a structural evil, but it hasn't affected all the political colors, as much as they're also talking about other parties that are also on this other bench. It is an irresponsibility, it is a shame, that they try to transfer to society that corruption is something inevitable and that in all parties there is corruption when they are currently living the biggest and most scandalous trial of corruption in the history of this country. Please! At least hold your head and be more humble!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u315	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u316	And let's not say any more of your failure of real will to fight it, except for the social reprisal and outrage that has been generated in this country in recent years, and thanks to courageous judges and journalists who have helped to unwind for the people, that people you often want to hide things, if you know what you were going through. And yet, as long as you don't have the electoral cost, the PP looks elsewhere and hides its head. Then, despite being the great protagonists of corruption at all levels, it turns out that they are the ones who fight most against the corruption of all the parties of our political system, which does not enter into the head of anyone. And they scrape the clothes in a way that's fun. But the measures against corruption that we have brought — as we have said here — are that they are all voted against. And how they say you can't implant that! In Germany they don't comply with international rules on that issue? Germany and Scandinavian countries are breaking the law, incredible! Look, we're not criminalizing anyone -- and end of the story -- we're just proposing a preventive approach in view of what happened in this country and the social and economic cost, which is outrageous, bloody and painful, a preventive way for the administration to be able to control itself. If our pemes receive work inspections, health inspections, why can't our administrations have anti-corruption inspections and transparency for citizenship? Why don't you want to? Well, you know exactly why: 'cause it's not for them. It's a scandal!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-11-21-DSPG049.u317	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet! Before you finish the full, please. We've still opened the vaccination campaign. I make a recommendation because in the vaccination campaign we also want the entire population to be vaccinated, and it's at a very low rate. You are elected Members. And with their image, if they vaccinate themselves — which even works well for their health — we can encourage people to vacate. So I'm asking them to vacate. It doesn't hurt them, they vacate. Thank you. We'll suspend until tomorrow.
