ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u1	Good morning. Before we begin today's session, I ask you to keep a minute of silence for the deceased on the collision of the New Marcos fishing vessel on the island of Tambo. [[All members of the House and of the Government, as well as those attending this plenary session, standing, keep a minute of silence.]] Thank you. We begin with the development of the agenda, item 6, questions for the oral response of the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the balance of the result of its negotiation strategy with the state on key themes for Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u2	Whenever you like, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u3	Good morning. Let me make my first words of encouragement to families and send them a hug at a time that I imagine is one of the most bitter drinks of their lives. Well, all the affection from here. Mr. Feijóo, in today's question we want to know what is your balance on the achievements for Galicia of these intense and hard negotiations that you keep with the state. If you'll excuse me, I'll make a move. First: with regard to new competences for Galicia, its result, zero. Secondly, we're a net exporter community of electricity; results, benefits for families and for companies in Greece, zero. Third: high speed; we have just seen how they celebrate in other territories the twenty-five years of the arrival of the AVE; you here defending the ultimate delay; if we trust your word, in 2019, that is, thirty years of delay. And its last achievement is the cut of 442 million euros from state budgets. What are you doing? Well nothing, he's happy as a partridge and what he believes is a commission to follow up the cut. But, of course, this is not the only commission. In December you also set up another committee — I don't know if you remember — the AP-9 co-management committee. Did it work out of that commission? More traffic jams and more charges. But if all this balance wasn't brilliant enough, we just saw the latest scandals that blow up their party, the corruption scandals, which, moreover, have the particularity that affect the general interest in our country. In the so-called Lezo operation we have just seen how Villar Mir, the owner of Ferroatlantica, is charged, and nothing more and nothing less than, of course, illegal financing from the People's Party. By the way, many and many still remember those generous donations from Villar Mir to the Fraga Foundation. Mr. Feijóo, I certainly don't know how sorry I am to have to come here today again with this subject, but you have an important decision to make, and today the company has just told you the date you have to solve: May 31st. Look, with formal request or without it, we all know what Villar Mir's intentions are: boxing with the Xallas power stations, picking up the folder and getting lost. And you, Mr. Feijóo, have to decide which side you are on: whether you are on the side of the defendant Villar Mir or whether you are on the side of the employment of the Death Coast, the defense of general interests, and for a sale that would not only be illegal, would be a real blow to democracy and the dignity of our country. As far as this country is concerned, I ask him not to hide himself in half lies and to face, to tell us the truth. I warn you that Galicia isn't paying for bites or favors from the People's Party to Villar Mir, favors that -- it's obvious -- it's trying to pass them an invoice; it's been a long time and you know what that bill is all about? Illegal sale of Xallas power stations. I hope, Mr Feijóo, that he will put an end to this so turbulent episode today and that he commits himself to something very simple: to say in this Parliament, solemnly, that you will not allow the segregation or sale of the Xallas power stations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is clear what Mrs. Pontón's question is, so I'm going to try to answer at least one of the two formulations. Mrs Pontón, listening to you talking about negotiation not with the state, because I am the ordinary representative of the state in Galicia, but with the central government, I can only, like all Members of the House, remember that of "intelligent cooperation." They were running away at other times when the BNG handed the Galician Union to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, after losing the elections; they ran at times when the BNG supported the socialist proposals in Madrid, with Rodríguez Zapatero. And that of the intelligent cooperation that came to mean, Mrs. Pontón? Nothing, disappointment and sacrifice. Nothing, Mrs Pontón, because you were talking about millions of euros -- the AVE, as you just confirmed, is still late -- and because you were talking about self-government. We will undoubtedly talk about the self-government you've achieved. Disappointment, no doubt. You were a Member who defended, yes or yes, that AVE would arrive in Galicia in 2012, and now remember that AVE has not yet arrived in Galicia. And sacrifice, why? Because the hole between Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero and the two-party government left in Galicia worth more than 2,000 million euros. Your Honor, that's the intelligent cooperation you're talking about. I would like to speak, as you ask, of the balance of these years of recession and economic crisis between the relationship of the Galician Union and the Central Government. First of all, those 2,000 million euros that you've let go of duty we managed not to pay them in five years, which was the commitment that Rodríguez Zapatero demanded, but to pay them in twenty years. Secondly, Your Honor, we have managed to open a financial facility for the autonomous communities that we meet the public deficit, and we have saved at least EUR 350 million. We're still on the balance. We have made it possible for the Central Government to put forward proposals for funds in Brussels, both soft landing and rural development funds. Balance, EUR 6,400 million in European funds for Galicia. We're still on the balance. In the naval sector, Your Honor, I inherited a situation in which the Socialist Party had proposed the veto to the Greek shipyards. We were able to win the price and the tax read is part of the story. I assumed a Galician where there had not been a single contract for seven years in Navantia, where Astano had been with a veto for ten years without making a single job. Today there are over 700 jobs in Astano, and now contracts with the naval sector and Navantia start. [[Applause]] Your Honor, tell me about so many things! Tell me about electricity; 33,000 jobs in Galicia in electricity. You tell me we're a great power in electricity; yes, we're Spain's third. Your Honor, you tell me about the AP-9, the Atlantic Highway. What did BNG pose on AP-9? Two things. First of all, you and the rest of BNG's colleagues, vote on the transfer of the freeway to the Atlantic. And secondly, give the State Government 6 million euros a year to lift the fees of a state highway. Account: at this point we have paid over 60 million euros to the Central Government. What did we get on the Atlantic Highway? First of all, we sit on a table to do what we have to expand the highway. And second, you know what I'm fighting for? To save 180 million euros of Greek money and not to continue paying the fees...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u7	...that you paid with the central government. Look, Mrs. Pontón, if you want to talk about Ferroatlantics, I'll gladly talk to you in the replica. But with regard to this Parliament, Mr President, I will try to answer the questions put to me by Members, even though Members do not know the questions they ask me. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u9	Mr. Feijóo, don't get angry because we're talking about corruption in your party and what are the derivatives this corruption can have in our country. I think today is the issue that concerns the Greeks and the Greeks most, which are, in any case, those who voted for him to be president and with whom you have pledged to defend Galician interests in front of other things. Remember the election campaign? Galicia, Galicia, Galicia. Now what is it? PP, PP, PP. You have forgotten, Mr. Feijóo, which are your promises and your commitments. Look, you were part of the government that promised Galician AVE in 2009, I don't know if you remember. You told us a few months ago that the state was already paying the fees of Rande and Barcala, and now you're coming to tell us you're still fighting for it to be paid. Calm down. Did he lie to the Greeks when he told them that this was an agreement that was already signed with the state or did we continue to pay those fees with public resources? We see that you don't want to talk about funding, you don't want to talk about the cut and, above all, you don't want to talk about that we benefit from electricity. And of course, speaking of electricity, you'll understand that I have to tell you about Villar Mir and the scandal of the sale of the Xallas power stations and about the corruption of his party. Look, Mr. Feijóo, I think it would be good if you explained to us why Villar Mir makes generous donations to the Fraga Foundation. I think it would be nice for you to explain to us why you helped the entire management of the Road shelters, 1.3 million euros, to the OHL company. OHL does not know whether it is part of the Villar Mir group, that this company is chaired by another one of those accused of alleged corruption, for alleged illegal financing by the People's Party. I think this is a subject that has enough transcendence so that you don't look elsewhere. And secondly, I would like to, Mr. Feijóo, that today on the subject of Ferroatlantics you had closed this dark chapter. There are hundreds of jobs at stake on the Death Coast, and you can't play with that to pay him the favors the People's Party owes to Villar Mir. My question is very clear: will you defend employment on the Death Coast, the general interest, and tell the accused Villar Mir that you will not accept his blackmails? Yes or no? And secondly, I have another proposal to make to you in the interests of transparency and that there is no kind of doubt about what's going on with that plot of illegal financing of the People's Party and the links with the companies of the Villar Mir group. We have a commission of inquiry in this Parliament where we analyse all the contracts, all the public hearings and, if the PP...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u11	...you're willing, all the funding coming from Villar Mir to your party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You leave the Fraga, if possible, in peace, I say if possible. You don't have a potato at the Fraga Foundation, Your Honor. There's no money to catalogue President Fraga's files. You leave President Fraga alone. There's a big difference between President Fraga and many politicians who are now finding out exactly what they were doing. Respect, Mrs. Pontón. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, nothing you want to talk about is that you voted against the transfer of the Atlantic Highway to Galicia; it's in the Sessions Journal. Nothing wants to tell me why you were paying the central government the lifting of the fees of a state highway. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] And now tell me that if I announced it, but I haven't done it yet. Look, Your Honor, I have an agreement with the Ministry of Development that is currently at the State Council. If we succeed, if we can save EUR 180 million, will I have the support of the BNG on this issue, Mrs Pontón? Mrs. Pontón, talking about AVE and talking about BNG is at least surprising. I've been reviewing some of the news from when you were represented in Madrid. We've taken 11 million and a half euros for the Atlantic axis, I said. We have 2 million euros for connection to the Meseta. We've got 1 million euros for Ferrol-A Coruña, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] That's what the hemerotheque says. Where is the AVE of Ferrol and Coruña, which you had these great investments that succeeded with the governments of the economic goodness of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, Mr. Pontón? Where are those investments, Your Honor? Where are they? [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, we have, in fact, just set up a follow-up commission for the execution of state budgets in Galicia; you were not. Yes, there's 900 million euros, Mrs. Pontón. I know they haven't been approved yet, and probably, if the budgets aren't approved, you'll tell me I'm guilty of AVE being late. First, they don't approve budgets and then blame those we want to have budgets, those we want to have AVE, for having no assumptions and having no AVE. That's very old, but people, Your Honor, know how to argue between one proposal and the other. Look, Mrs. Pontón, if you want to talk about Villar Mir, you're right, but it gives me the feeling that the contracts awarded to Villar Mir between you in the Bipartite and I, in eight years of government, walk around... you, in four, and we in nine years of government, walk around. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm telling you that I'm not worried about what you've done or what we've done, because they're absolutely reasonable amounts. But if you want to keep talking about Ferroatlantics, let's talk about Ferroatlantics, Your Honor. You say there's a confrontation with the Union and with Ferroatlantics. Why? Why? Ferroatlantic has just signed an agreement with UXT and Workers' Commissions. Are you accusing UXT unions and Labour Commissions of a contubernance? Yeah? Look, Your Honor, it is unfortunate that you accuse UXT and the Workers' Commissions in this House... without being able to defend yourselves, ladies and gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] It's unfortunate, Your Honor, it's regrettable. [[Applause]] We will continue to work, following the law, Mrs. Pontón — we have complied with the law — defending the general interests, defending the workers of Dumbria and Cee and defending the workers of Soapón. We did, we did, and we will continue to do. What happens, Mrs. Pontón, is that there are different ways of seeing relations with the central government. You have a paradigm, which is the Catalan Government, and we have another paradigm, which is to defend our interests as what we are, as Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u14	Controlled, controlled time. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u15	Your Honor, when you had representation in Madrid, what were you doing? Have you ever wondered why BNG now has no voice or vote in the General Courts?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u17	If you continue on this path, Your Honor, it gives me the feeling that the same will happen to you in this Parliament. Your Honor, I can be wrong, no doubt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u19	...I can be right or wrong, but I have no more commitments than Galicia. I may be right or wrong, but I have no interest in overcoming the interests of the Greeks. I may be right or wrong, Your Honor, but to me the first is Galicia, Galicia and Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u20	Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? No, no, sorry, I control time and I know very well what goes on one side and what goes on the other, and in that sense there's no doubt. No, no, you can't see it there, you can see it here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, you see purple there but here who sees time is me. And then you have no doubt, I know how to control time perfectly. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the diligent fulfilment by the Government of the obligations arising from the autonomous legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u21	Whenever you like, Mr. Fernández Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u22	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, this is a question that the opposition should never have the opportunity to make in parliaments, because the first obligation of the rulers — we will surely agree — is to comply with the law, but it is inexcusably. In recent times, we have seen that since the Act of equality to social inclusion, there have been crucial aspects of self-regulation that were to be developed, to be met, after years. It's a pattern that repeats. We approve the framework and we do not develop it or develop it in part so that the rest remains the same. This pattern is particularly serious — I have to say — in relation to the Media Act of 2011, approved almost six years ago. A prominent member of this House indicated in that debate that the law promoted improvements in economic efficiency, in promoting pluralism and the quality of information and progress in governance. Of all these improvements, only the adoption of the framework mandate and the parliamentary election of the Board of Directors, not the Director General, are developed. No programme contracts, which weakens the economic efficiency and parliamentary control, nor the Audiovisual and Audiovisual Council Act, nor the professional status and the Informative Council, affecting pluralism, neutrality and veracity in information, nor the parliamentary election by a qualified majority of the Director-General, which weakens governance. You are failing to comply with Article 23 on general guidance; Article 27 on the existence of an advisory council; Article 33 on programme contracts; Article 36 on professional status and the Information Council; Article 39 on the guarantee of the right of access supervised by the audiovisual authority; Article 48 on parliamentary control, on the programme contract and its annual execution; Article 49 on audiovisual authority; the fourth transitional provision on the deadline for the election of the Director General; the fifth final provision on the draft audiovisual authority law. Anyway, it doesn't have to go on, surely, so that we'll all be aware of the gravity of non-compliance with a law of the year 2011. It's been six years, they've had opportunities and calls of attention, several. In 2013, our group presented in full an initiative that was rejected. In 2014, a similar initiative was adopted with its votes and demanded immediate compliance with that law, and it has been almost three years since that new initiative was adopted. Mr President, it is serious that the laws are in breach. It's even more serious when these are repeatedly and inconceivable. Citizens end up losing faith in the political system, being discouraged by their confidence in democracy. Parliaments, which are the center of that system, are devalued, devalued to all by turning the approval of laws into mere propaganda if they have no concrete effect afterwards. To dodge laws that are agreed upon, in addition to these laws, because we participate widely in their design and vote in favour of their approval, ends up becoming a phenomenon that erodes trust among all. It's time to rectify and comply, without excuses and without delay. Are you prepared to comply with the Media Act, adopted in 2011, Mr President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u23	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President received a question entitled — Leo — if you are diligently fulfilling the obligations deriving from the autonomous legislation of the Council of Galicia. Mr. Leicega, if you wish to have answered the questions that affect you, why don't you ask me directly? Because to say whether or not we have complied with the laws, Mr. Leicega, it is certainly a thesis on the lack of concretion in the parliamentary debate. Your Honor, we have complied with the laws, and we have complied with the laws because we respect this Parliament. We respect this Parliament because 80% of this Parliament's plenary consists of government control. We respect this Parliament, Your Honor, because I am the President who most often opposed the opposition in the history of the Autonomous Community. We respect this Parliament because 25% of the laws are out of the parliamentary proposals and are subsequently in conformity with the laws. It is true, Your Honor, that there are regulations that develop the laws in which we would like to go faster, without doubt, and of course, Your Honor, that there are regulations that are not complied with within the prescribed time limits, without doubt. But of that saying that, if a regulatory deadline is not met, we are not complying with the laws, Mr. Leicega, allow me not to accept it. Mr. Leicega, you know better than I do that we've made significant progress in the Gaga Radiotelevision Company. The first, Your Honor, when I received the Galician Radiotelevision Company, I had over 1,400 workers, and when I left the Government as vice president of that government, I couldn't reach 650. You will understand that this is not an excellent management. Second, Your Honor, when I arrived at the Government, the Galician Radiotelevision Company was the third channel in Spanish audience; today is the first. Your Honor, when I arrived at the Government, the Galician Radiotelevision Company had 140 million euros of budget; today it has 90. Your Honor, I think we've done some things at the Galega Radiotelevision Company. The first thing I did in 2009 as president of the board is to move him to the opposition, to which he was sitting where you are, three names to choose, between the three names, a proposal by director of Radiotelevision Galega; of the three names he chose one and I accepted him; never in Galicia if he did this, nor when we were in the Government — I have to accept it — or when you were. So, Your Honor, if you tell me that we've been late in advertising, it's true; that we've been late in the program contract, it's true; we'll introduce it, Your Honor. But I believe that at this time the directors and especially the workers of the Galician Radiotelevision Company must be congratulated on two things: the first, because it was the channel of greatest audience among the autonomics; the second, by doing with 90 million what they used to do for 140 million; the third, by remaining in an advertising duopolius settlement, and with more than fifty open channels — that in the previous legislation there were not — by continuing, by keeping the Galician Radiotelevision Company, by making a permanent and daily commitment of 24 hours of Greek language on radio and television, and nothing less, I would rule, by telling everyone in Spain that TV3, with eight channels, has less audience than the Galician Television, with two channels. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u26	Yes, the words I quoted earlier about the beneficial effects of the law were from the MP's spokesperson at the time, which is the same as today. That's why I thought it was so important that the law had been fulfilled, because I agree that these are the effects that legislation should have. [[Applause]] But, of course, you can't have those effects if legislation doesn't start, which is what's happening. Moreover, the difficulties — I am sure — are within the scope of the Government, which does not want to lose the political control instruments of the information you have today or increase the degree of autonomy of the professionals who carry out the information. Look at the things that the company committee has just assumed the functions against information manipulation that the law says would correspond to the Information Council, and, if the protocol is needed, I'll make it come after this session. Mr President, I fully understand the difference between breaking the law and criminalizing it. I don't equate his performance with that of Matas, Camps, Pedro Antonio Sánchez or Ignacio González; it's not that. But you, who announced to us that this was your last legislation, have the opportunity to do things right, and to do things right, means to fully comply with the laws, and in particular this one, which is also part of our playing field and guarantees fair competition between political positions. I don't think it should seem like an excess that we demand that a law be fully complied with six years after we approve it with our vows, instead of opting for a compliance with the letter. You know I always like to make proposals. We don't have an election call in principle until 2019. I think we should get out of this Parliament a commitment that at the beginning of 2018 we have fully complied with this Media Act. We have a few months to promote professional status and enhance the quality and professionalism and independence of information content — although the law itself —; to create the Information Council, as an internal body for the participation of professionals — i.e. the law itself; to elect the director general by a large majority, with an initial mandate up to 2020, to match with the board of directors; to promote the first programme contract, or, if this has problems, a similar transitional mechanism until the end of 2018, informing the Galician Parliament, as the framework mandate says, and rendering accounts to it, as the law itself says; to have the Government register in the House a draft audiovisual authority law, as the law of 2011. This should be the commitment we have made among all of us. Say yes and let's get to work right away, incorporating all those who want it. It's in his hand. I have already told you that, otherwise, we will push forward the parliamentary initiatives that are provided for in the Rules of Procedure to ensure that this law is complied with. It's in his hand that we do it one way or another.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u27	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, you know that we have made the biggest transformation of the Galga Radiotelevision Company since we were in the Government -- there were three entities in the company, now there is one -- the biggest transformation in the history of the Galga Radiotelevision Company organization. Secondly, you know that we are digitizing the company, with a current assumption, from the 90 million euros, and before — and I insist — there were 140 million euros when you were. Your Honor, you know there's a series of ideas, the authority of the audiovisual, for example. That was first suggested by Catalonia, proposed by Catalonia. Your Honor, do you know, at this moment, the debate that the Socialist Party of Catalonia has with TV3 and the information forms of TV3? Look, Mr. Leicega, we are a loyal, loyal group, loyal to our commitments, loyal to our agreements and loyal to the Socialist Party, even though you do not have the same loyalty in your banks. Today, the Council of the Company presides over the proposal of the Socialist Party, which we voted for... and you — no, I'm sorry — that you did not vote, some Members and Members, and that thanks to the votes of the PP is part of the Management Board of the Company and the president. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] See if we're loyal, Mr. Leicega, see if we're loyal to the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, sometimes you have more loyalty in this bench than in your own ranks. We have not yet been clarified by the Members and Members of the Socialist Party because they have not voted for the proposal of the journalist who is part of the Board of Directors; they say that some of Lugo were not; I know that Lugo's people wanted to put it on, which is that the people of Pontevedra did not want to put it on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And so, Your Honor, you now tell me about objectivity in the Gallega Radiotelevision Company, when they have no objectivity in their ranks. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Leicega, a little respect for the suggestions, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, the Company's new Board of Directors aims to pass the advertising rules, and, once it approves the advertising rules, they will correspond to them, once the Council approves them, we take note and continue until its final approval. Mr. Leicega, I don't want to bring back previous times, but talk about information disloyalty on the TVG, look, most of the Greeks are informed — please! — but there are new ladies who don't remember what was going on here. Your Honor, don't you remember what happened here during the Bipartite, the charges between the BNG and the PSOE within the Company? [[Laughter]] The BNG was the one with the news, and the PSOE was the one with the programs, that's at first, then it changed, and it turns out that the news was the PSOE and the programs were the BNG. If to me, when I went to the TVG, they would tell me, but not to ours, but to yours, Your Honor. They were amazing the messes you had between the Tertullians of one and the other. [[Laughter]] As Mr Quintana formally complained in this Parliament about the coverage of the TVG alongside the President of the Union. But, Mr. Leicega, do you really believe that you can teach us lessons on information objectives? Mr. Leicega, let's develop the laws, let's keep agreeing, but please, on the information objectivity in the Glaga Radiotelevision Company, you can't only complain, but you have to apologize. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G. P. de En Marea, asked about the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the employment situation and the labour market of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u30	Whenever you like, Mr. Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. Mr. Feijó, our question is clear and well-specified also on the agenda. We want to ask you, at 1st May, about the evolution of employment in Galicia since you ruled, from 2009 to 2016. At the doors of May 1 is a good time to think about the whole employment policy or, if so, unemployment in Galicia, as we will now show. That's where you'll be credited with your good manager. First of all, we have the worst rate of employment in the whole of Spain since 2009. We have 103,000 fewer busy since you rule and 38,000 more unemployed. The evolution is terrible: 9% less jobs, compared to 3.4% of the state. Some explanation should be given to the President of the Union on this evolution of job loss. Secondly, precarious. Since 2013, when, in your opinion, the economic crisis ends or begins to end the economic crisis, employment created is 95% temporary, compared to 5% indefinite. So precariousness is the only job exit that is offered to the working people in our country. This places Galicia at a 27% precaution rate right now, compared to 22% that there were only four years ago, by the way, twice as much as on the average of the state. Thirdly, by sector, the primary sector, during the years of its mandate, of its mandates, suffered a loss of 20,000 jobs, which means 20% of the working population in this sector; 20% and 20,000 jobs. In the industrial sector, the loss was 17% of jobs, reaching 35,000 people in absolute numbers, twice as much as in the average state. What is your industrial policy for Galicia? What are your industrial development plans? Its industrial policy is unique and exclusively to return favors to Villar Mir, who is already officially accused of illegally financing the People's Party. That's why we were worried and worried from the very first moment what was the position of the People's Party in the House and in the Council of Galicia regarding Ferroatlantics. It was inexplicable the calculated ambiguity and evasiveness of the Government of the Union and of the People's Party in this House in relation to Ferroatlantics, and now we know why: because I had to fund the People's Party and you had to return those favors. You are the state leader of the People's Party, which is the party that is accused of being illegally funded by Villar Mir. It turns out that Villar Mir is the People's Party, no other party and no union, the People's Party, and therefore you have to pay the favor somehow. The workers and workers of the companies of Cee and Dumbria have positioned themselves, and their business committees, unanimously, against the agreement and against all the claims of the company that the Union wants to authorize, unanimously. And you, about whom you have jurisdiction, about where you have dominion, is about the binding of the hydroelectric concessions of the Xallas with regard to Cee and Dumbria. So, don't escape to justify your Ferroatlantic position to agreements signed outside the two plants, because the workers and the workers and where you are in your area of competition, which is the link between the production of ferro-aleration in those two factories, is linked to the two plants, which is where you compete. So he has the ability to guarantee the survival of more than 500 people on the Coast of Death, or he can condemn them to unemployment to return the favors. You should be ashamed, apologize in this House and defend the jobs of the workers and the workers on the Coast of Death. But besides unemployment, there are 38,000 more unemployed, with an active population of 65,000 less, the second worst development in the whole state. And, finally, in relation to labor sinality, as a result of death — and today we still have a terrible figure on the table of two new sailors killed — one worker dies in Galicia every week, 58 dead in the last official data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u33	...of 2015—reduced— 7.41%, twice as much as the state average. Can you make an assessment of this evolution, please?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u34	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Mr. Villares has been given a lot of support lately. Ask me to help you because you say that when you ask a question the president answers you evasively. Mr. Villares, even last week, fifteen days ago, he said it's a shame without a comparison. As it is clear, Mr. Villares does not deviate from the subject. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, it may turn out that you're going to have to ask yourself for help to accomplish what you want. What do you want to talk about, Mr. Villares? From the job? All right, Mr. Villares, I thought I wanted to talk about corruption, about Ferroatlantics. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know what you want to talk about. I'm talking about what you want, Mr. Villares; nothing to hide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u36	Quiet, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u37	... nothing to hide and everything to answer. Mr. Villares, look, if you ask me about the evolution of employment in Galicia, I'll tell you that it can't be positive: we have a 16% unemployment rate; it's not positive. If you tell me, how did Galicia find him when he got to the presidency? Well, I found Galicia destroying 50,000 jobs in the last year, when other parties ruled, and I found Galicia, for example, in 2014, already in my second legislation, with a 23% unemployment rate, and of course what I find at this time is that it is a rate below the average of Spain; and for example, in Extremeura it is a rate of 28%, in Andalusia of 38%, in Canary Islands of 25%, in Castela-A Mancha of 22%, etc. But look, Your Honor, do you know why we have less active population? I guess he'll know. Today, under 35 years of age, there are 145,000 less busy; in over 35 we have 42,000 more busy. What's the matter, Your Honor? Do you think the demographic decline has nothing to do with the fact that there are more than 130,000 people under the age of 35 under the age of 35 and, however, that we are able to occupy older people? Mr. Villares, you should give him the full data; as it is usually customary, they don't pass it; don't pass it, ladies. For example, according to EPA, you should not discuss that in the last quarter of the legislation, when I arrived at the president, 58,000 jobs were destroyed in the last quarter of the previous year and we are now creating 18,000 jobs — EPA data. You should tell the Greeks that when I got to the government, when I got to work, 50,000 jobs had been destroyed, and now 17,100 jobs are being created. You should not hide from the Greeks who are now less unemployed than when the Greeks elected me president in 2012. Even now there's less unemployment than when the Greeks elected me president in 2009. There are only five autonomous communities with less unemployment registered today than in 2009 -- one of them, Galicia. Yes, Your Honor, I know you show me the paintings you do, but I show you the complete paintings. Look, forty-one consecutive months, forty-one consecutive months of unemployment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Today we have 21,700...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u38	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u39	...stops less than a year ago. I know you laugh at them; as they don't usually care about the country, I'm not surprised they laugh at them. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, when we get here, 47,000 social security affiliations will be destroyed and there are now 18,000 more. Your Honor, if you tell me if I'm satisfied with the evolution of unemployment in Galicia, the answer is 'no'; if you tell me that we are better than when I took possession, the answer is 'yes'; and the trend, no doubt. And you mustn't mix up your busy population knowing what demographic problem we have, because that's just missing reality. Mr. Villares, shall we continue working? The answer is yes. We don't hide the ideas we have as a Government. We want there to be between 80,000 and 100,000 jobs in 2020...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u40	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u41	...more, that the unemployment rate is around 10% and that there are more than 50,000 indefinite contracts. On precariousness and other matters I'll answer you in the reply. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u43	Let's see, Mr. Feijó, let's see. The EPA data, drawn from the EPA, from the evolution of unemployment, from the evolution of employment and from the evolution of active population, are here, we all have. Do you want us to email them? Let's pass them. There's no problem. Worry about the job? In the People's Party we see little. We see very little, because they must be satisfied that they have achieved this result of being the worst in the evolution of state-wide employment, the worst in unemployment, the loss of active population. They must be super contented and oversatisfied with that evolution. And they must be -- and this book also I suppose it didn't do it in Marea, even if it's blue and white -- because, in relation to what you've planned for active employment policies for last year, it's not running a lot of things. See programme 322C, promotion of employment, self-employment and the inclusive labour market, EUR 51 million programmed, not running EUR 6 million, on 31 December. Better promotion of employability, budgeted 86 million, without spending 33 million euros. Vocational training to unemployed, EUR 76 million, not running EUR 21 million. What's wrong? Is the people already well-formed enough, is the population already busy enough that we don't have to spend the money? Execution data for Galician Union itself. What are you going to do with that waste? What will you do: enlighten Gaiás, as he did with the ticket of energy poverty? Put on light bulbs? Yeah? Are you going to put on light bulbs? Because, of course, the job lights don't seem to be missing, huh? We can't accept this situation, we can't accept it. Maybe they're saving money, yeah, maybe they're saving money to pay bail to Ignacio Gonzalez. Here comes another autonomous community. For, indeed, the autonomous communities — as you say — are related because there is only one state-owned party that has one state-owned leadership, that has a state-owned director, who is sitting there, and who has a party accused of receiving illegal funding from Villar Mir. That is why we refer to the specific question, and we tell you, in relation to the specific situation, to speak up. And this has to do with the evolution of employment, because we lost 35,000 jobs of an industrial nature and we don't want to lose 500 more. And the way to ensure the viability of these 500 jobs is to ensure compliance with the administrative concession as it was, as the workers and the workers of the two railway stations that are linked to the hydroelectric power stations that you are competent to authorize or not authorize segregation. So it was in favour of improving the evolution of employment and not continuing to destroy jobs. I think Galician citizenship deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u44	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Mr. President's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, EPA's data has them, but I read them all, the positive ones and the negative ones; you don't. You, who are a convinced Democrat, when you charge someone and say something you don't like, demand cessation. The brave lady of the people how dare you say something to a mayor of En Marea?! You have to go! I, as a real Democrat, when a judge accuses someone, keeps charging him and keeps investigating him. [[Murmurs.]] That's a big difference, Your Honor. Imagine a judge shooting somebody from Marea. I suppose, Your Honor, that judge is not acting properly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Have you not yet asked for the cessation of anyone who wishes to make any criticism to any of the leaders of En Marea? No matter what, Your Honor, you say I'm a party member. And you, exactly, are you a member of what, Mr. Villares? I'm saying it to guide us. [[Laughter]] Are you a member of a party who doesn't want me to be the spokesman of the party? Mr. Villares, legitimacy must also win it within the democratic party and not do the things you did to get what you did. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Villares, we're gonna keep working and we're gonna keep talking about work. EPA, occupied: in 2008-2009, 49,000 occupied less; last EPA, 17,000 occupied more. EPA, stopped: last year of the bipartisan government, 58,000 more unemployed; last year of this government, 18,500 fewer unemployed. That's what we can offer the Greeks, Your Honor. If you want to impact the demographic decline and why we have fewer boys and, consequently, less active population of children under 35, you talk about demography and don't just make demagogy in this House. Look, you're also talking about precariousness. Between 2005 and 2008, indefinite contracts in the autonomous community are between 65% and 69%; today they exceed 75%. Why don't you get the data, Mr. Villares? Don't you see that we have to come here with the subject we've learned? Not with a part of it, Mr. Villares, because if you don't, it hangs him. Mr. Villares, exactly what do we have to copy? Tomorrow we will approve a new package for children under 30 years of age, a new package consisting of training and a package consisting of subsidising your salary in companies — you are paying attention to this proposal. In training, more than 5,000 euros per person — training is to be asked by the companies that are going to hire it — and subsequently a grant of 5,000 euros to that company for hiring a pre-trained boy. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, I, as it is logical, prepare... because I have a lot of respect for this House, because I am president, because I am a Member and because I have a lot of cost to be a Member, Your Honor. They didn't choose me from day to day. No, no, they didn't pick me from day to day, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] I was elected to a democratic congress of my party. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I was saying, Mr. Villares... No wonder Anova's laughs at what I'm saying, Mr. Villares, I'm not surprised! [[Murmurs.]] But leave us a moment to answer your questions. [[Applause]] I, of course, review the labor policies of his coalition. What if we paid attention to them? What if we had listened to them and didn't approve the express law to favor the investments of PSA, Peugeot-Citroën, in Vigo? What if we had heeded them and proposed the drastic reduction of military spending and, consequently, had no Spanish Navy ship in Navantia? And if we had listened to them, Your Honor, and we were against the technology of the Roses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u47	...to be a NATO base? What if we had listened to them, Your Honor, and closed Reganosa, and closed ENCE, and closed the thermal power plant of Soap and the thermal power plant of Meirama? [[Murmurs.]] You know what that means? 15,000 more stops.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u49	Mr. Villares, if your business policies are to close the Greek companies, of course we disagree. Our job policy is to create jobs and comply with the law. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's resume the agenda at point 4 of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government for legal regulation in the field of the taxation of the pensions of returned migrants
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u51	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Presas Berganginos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u52	I'll wait a bit, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, that I don't want to bother people who go out for coffee.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u53	It's almost commencing. [[Applause]] No, no, no, we'll wait until there's a little more silence in the House, if possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u54	I'm not in a hurry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u55	No problem, time is running out. Total peace of mind. [[Laughter]] You can start now, Mrs. Presas. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u56	Well, good morning to all and all. With this non-law proposition, the Nationalist Block Galego brings back to this House a matter that really brings us two strong and found feelings. On the one hand, the feeling of pride that four years later — today, April 26, 2017 — at the door of this Parliament, within a mouse, will come a concentration of returned and returned emigrants who will begin a mobilization in a few minutes to claim something for which they have been fighting for many years: justice and dignity. They are an example of dignity for the Nationalist Block Galego. And from here we want to send them all our recognition. On the other hand, we cannot also hide a certain feeling of disappointment, because four years after many people — like those who will accompany us today — have started a deep struggle, the different administrations have not been able to enable a solution for all of them. [[Applause]] And that's disappointing for all the people we believe in democracy. Anyway, let no one change, that we won't do like Mr. Gonzalez. We're not going to say that the only solution to this is to shoot anyone, because we're pacifists at BNG. So we wanted to reflect on the fact that, even if we are many and many of the Members and Members who have not been here in the previous legislation, those who have been, and the Journal of Sessions and Hemerotheques, they know in depth how many times we have spoken in vain in this House on this matter. Four years later there are many and many who, as I say, continue in the street because then a just, universal and homogenous solution has not been reached. All of them and all of them, this parliamentary group, first of all, would like to thank them, thank you for the effort — not always recognised — that they have used for years to bring forward not only their — our families but a whole country. For I welcome the fundamental role that they played in the economic reactivation of this nation and in the modernization of the country in many respects, from economic to cultural; a role that we have often not been able to recognize and value, especially — and being self-critical — the younger generations. We want to thank the emigrants of this country because they have gone and are still a key part of our country's social cohesion. Also today, because it was and it was them who in a context of economic adversity, in a context where many homes have gone through and experienced it very badly, who have prevented with their economic mattress, with their pensions justly won, that the consequences were more dramatic on the street. We want to thank them too because they have shown something that is not ballad in time of discredit around justice. They have demonstrated that it is essential to find out the problems, it is essential to help others in the same situation, as they did through their associations, and it is essential also to mobilize; and that this, achievement, hope and struggle for justice, regardless of how long it takes, does not understand age but understands will. From their inconformity we also have much to learn collectively. We want to make a little memory, taking advantage of the presentation of this initiative. Since the beginning of 2013, thousands of people have been born in our country — as I say — numerous comarcas platforms with the aim of claiming justice for their pensions and preserving the rights of thousands of people who, after working for many years outside of Galicia, have been at risk of two basic rights: the right to equal tax treatment and the right to live safely on their retirement stage, enjoying those pensions that they had tried hard to achieve after years of work in the host countries, where they complied with the law and where they met the tax burdens they stipulated. We understand that it is fair to value that also that mobilization effort that I refer to has brought about policy changes, changes that have been implemented, but that are, in all light, insufficient, since the people affected have not recovered their rights globally. That is why we are bringing this initiative to debate on 26 April 2017. At the heart of the injustice of the whole question lies in regard to this pension of the foreigner as a second payer, when in the Spanish State in charge of receiving two pensions — such as widowhood and retirement — it is considered that there is only one payer, that State Social Security. And in this sense, two questions need to be dealt with: in which, above the nuances, first of all, people who did not tax did not because they were exempt in the country of origin or because they had already done so; and secondly, where we understand that applying double taxation depending on the place of origin of the pension is the heart of injustice. It wasn't, with these legal changes that led to this situation, to regulate anything but to implement a whole collection operation, and to collect, collect and that these pensions contributed to fund the collection in cut times, right? But these people, fortunately, did not resign themselves, did not comply, and were mobilized, associated and also turning to justice. So it was forced, through the facts, to implement these changes, as was the additional provision of Law 26/2014, which introduced an amendment whereby, implicitly, the Central Government itself came to recognize that by the Tax Agency all these persons were unfairly treated as absolute offenders and established a series of corrective measures, such as the regularization period and so on. But at all lights they go on without assuming a regulation that gives a clear and fair framework for the taxation of all these returned and returned emigrants, and I'm going to set an example. One of the many difficulties these groups continue to report is that fundamental factors, such as the content of the different bilateral treaties, are not taken into account, and that there are no mechanisms for something, for example, very bloody, such as the fair treatment of disability pensions, among other considerations. And I have here an example of a real case, a case in Switzerland, where this country — to see if I'm explaining myself without too much — does not make a distinction, like the Spanish legislation, between an absolute permanent disability pension and a non-permanent and non-absolute disability pension, as is done in the Spanish State. So, what is in this case in particular and you have your own judgment, is that this Swiss legislation does not make the Spanish distinction between these two types of disability, so it turns out that, therefore, this particular person could not obtain from the Swiss Government a certification with the terminology of the Spanish State. However, an analysis of the documentation he comes up with, it is clear that he is unable — recognized by the Swiss authorities — to develop this work so that he collects a disability pension and any other for physical matters, which could also be dealt with without any problems in this state as well. This is a specific case of a person who had to go to the courts and who had to suffer particular personal circumstances because of a mere matter of bureaucracy and legal terminology. We understand that this is not receipt. Each affected person can, of course, individually turn to the courts, but we know of the complexity of this. We have recently debated — I have set an example — around the ground clauses. Regardless of the different political visions of the matter, we all agreed that going to the courts was per se a complication, and even more so in a high-aged audience that often has impediments to displacement by the population dispersal of our country and that, in addition, with the whole question of judicial and other fees, for it is logical to fear, since the ignorance of the judicial system, to confront that great Trojan horse. We want to avoid all this. Since this is a collective problem, we understand that the solution must also be a collective one. Citing also a gentleman who is fashionable this week, Mr. Catalá, Minister of Justice, because this is about justice, for a dyratum — common in the enunciation, though different from the background —: that the mess is soon over, that the mess is soon over for all those people who at the moment they should be enjoying life, enjoying relaxation, enjoying the family, have to be mobilized through the streets of Santiago de Compostela and have to be looking for lawyers and lawyers and so on. For what is being claimed is something very simple, it is a tax amendment to Law 35/2006, which regulates the tax on physical persons, to bring it into line with a fair treatment of their pensions, as well as other matters that require minor legal amendments. Even more bearing in mind — and I would like to stress a great deal of this at the end of my time — that what can't be expected is that every affected or affected person will go to the courts when all courts are systematically giving reason to these affected persons and condemning the Spanish Tax Agency, as referred to in that sentence and as many more of the affected platforms, which are not receiving a single counter. We therefore understand that this is a matter of justice and that we must vote in favour of all the forces present here. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. The Socialist Parliamentary Group also expresses our solidarity with all returned migrants who are demonstrating themselves today in Santiago and who will end their demonstration in front of Parliament. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has already addressed this issue in 2013, 2014, 2015 and early 2016, and has also been presented in Congress of Deputies, in the Senate and even in the European Parliament. More recently, on 3 March, a GNP was debated in the 3rd Commission of this European Parliament in which the majority party, the People's Party, prevented our returned emigrants from being treated with dignity, exercising their parliamentary majority to reject the non-law proposal proposed by the Socialist Group, once again applying their roller. It turns out, however, even more outrageous because on 2 October 2013 Parliament Galego unanimously approved a text similar to what we have asked for and in this regard. But, as always, over and over again, the People's Party's procedure is to pass on the paper and then not to do it, to do it without doing anything, all towards the gallery. Thus, in the face of the Government's failure to comply with the demands made and adopted in this Parliament, the People's Group has not collaborated to approve any of the other initiatives that have been presented here, and in which we simply ask to stop treating returned migrants as fraudsters, to make available to them the necessary collaboration so that they can regulate their situation and equal them in the tax treatment to the rest of the Spanish pensioners. We must not forget, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that Galicia is a country of migrants, migrants who had to leave to look for a future that they didn't have in their country. It was a impoverished country that had just suffered a fratricidal civil war. Our returned emigrants are older people, in most cases with little tax knowledge, and who were concerned about clarifying their situation before the administration because they went to tax agencies. In tax agencies they informed us that it was not necessary to include these benefits, even leaving the person's will to include them or not in his income statements. Therefore, it is quite difficult to understand the prejudice that they are being provoked to regulate the unprescribed years, since there was never any intention in them to delude. If I make a story of the events, you know that in 2013 the minister at that time — who remains the same — needed to get money from wherever he went. And there was nothing better than sending a letter directly to all returned migrants who had controlled and had a foreign pension, in which they were informed of the opening of a file related to those pensions they received from the foreigner and, on the other hand, that they were asked for information and notified of a possible penalty not to declare on their day the income received, even notifying their relatives of deceased migrants. At first, the Ministry of Fairy ignored us, refused to seek an agreement, annulled sanctions and did not grant a deadline to update their statements. But the demanding effort of the numerous collectives made it necessary for the Administration to correct its way of proceeding, annulling the sanctions and no longer applying the interest of delay. But the issue worsened even more, since in the pensions of the returnees of Germany it was also demanding that they be taxed, not recognizing the judicial judgments that give reason to those returned emigrants who receive pensions from that country, for those who have already been taxed in that country. Therefore, you may suppose a clear case of double taxation. On the other hand, there are those people who have not recognized their incapacity in Spain, which seriously prejudices them because they cannot apply the exemptions that a Spanish pensioner —galego, in this case — would have. And they have to make a recognition requirement that in some cases is heavy and slow. We have a People's Party government that seeks fraud in which there are no frauds and, on the other hand, allows fraud, as well as fiscal amnesty, to favor those who have the most, the real frauds, of which a very important number are colleagues in their party. They're ashamed and differ, help those who have helped with their work to raise this country. They don't ask for exemption from taxation, but they do ask not to treat them as fraud. And they act immediately with all continuance against those who have bartered the resources that are of all and of all, public resources. Look, in an interview that appears on December 1, 2016, the president of Gestha, who is the trade union of Hacienda technicians, Carlos Cruzado, says: "Hacienda pursues immigrants and does not put the slightest effort into the big fraud bags. The Tax Agency has to reorganise itself to be able to fight tax fraud more effectively and to stop harassing returned emigrants to fight the big opaque bags."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u60	As we know, lately several collectives of return emigrants have received these letters again, in which they were warned of a penalty for unprescribed exercises. And finally, on 22 March 2017, the Eurocamera Committee on Petitions, in Brussels, agreed to keep open at the request of the platform, send...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u62	...letters to governments, so they can look for a solution and study the harmonisation of legislation on the definition of the concept of disability from the point of view of tax law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u63	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u64	We are going to vote in favour and we understand that the People's Party should reconsider its position in Commission 3a. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u66	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to begin my intervention by also adding myself to the condolences and sending a lot of encouragement to the families of the three mariners who died from the New Marcos, because, although there are situations where we always regret this kind of death of workers, there are some who live, in some way, in the first person. As the comrades here have well pointed out, the opposition, formerly, the uncertainty in which returned migrants live is not a new situation. The group of victims has been manifesting for four years before an injustice that prevents them from enjoying their retirement quietly. The persecution to which our elders were subjected by Fairy represents absolutely unacceptable injustice. Knowing this situation, the Central Government promoted the first additional provision of Law 26/2014, in which it was accepted that the Tax Agency was excessively exceeded in the interpretation of the rules. But this reform generated more shadows than you can see, and it seems that this was a better initiative for the press, for propaganda — as we are used to — to appear that it works more than to actually solve problems in an effective and real way. The large legal gaps that he left behind did not help or help to solve or clarify this difficult situation for these people who have been working outside their lives, because in the approved regulations three years ago, for example, the bilateral agreements signed with other countries have not been taken into account. This legal indefinition has direct consequences on the group of affected, and in fact, several claims made through their spokespersons have as their objective that, if there is a same IRPF scheme for pension incomes, regardless of whether one or more countries is made, they are subject to the same tax as the rest of Galicia. In addition, recently, the National Coordinator of Returned Migrants of Galicia has denounced textually before here — better said, before the European Parliament, and today it seems they will be here — the persecution of the Tax Agency to returnees receiving pensions from other countries of the European Union, in addition to being victims of discriminatory tax treatment. They claimed that more than 300,000 returnees from Greece, instead of enjoying their retirement, are being pursued permanently by the Spanish Tax Agency. We see that we live in the world backwards. The retirees, the little ones who have any kind of legal problem, are being pursued, but the big criminals, the big fraudsters and the big corrupts don't touch them or beat them, and they almost have to be careful not even in minds because they offend a lot of the sensibilities of certain organizations. I also added this collective that returnees who earn an invalidity pension are obliged to show this condition to the Spanish authorities, without acceptance of the recognition granted by the countries where they worked, which is Dantesque. So there are cases where the payer recognizes 100% disability and in Spain 2% or 3%. I mean, no one understands that. We must also point out that most of these 300,000 affected are mainly over 70 years old; that is, they are elderly people who reside, mostly in rural areas and who are forced to go to the courts to solve their cases. They are people who have difficulties, or more difficulties than other collectives, to be able to seek legal protection and to seek equality in their treatment. So a collective solution is needed because an individual process must be avoided that is long and tedious. Although the institutions of the European Union have no competence on the subject, the parliamentary committee decided to keep the process open and to send a letter to the Spanish Government, the European Commission and the European Council to inform the problem and to urge — in particular the Spanish executive — to seek a solution in line with the demands of the coordinator. It expresses a real will on the part of this body to resolve this injustice, something that both the Central Government, the People's Party, and the Government of the People's Party, does not seem to have the slightest intention to fix. It's becoming clearer for those who rule the Union, for those who manage the Union. And although the Board had said that it had held several meetings with affected and that the central executive has modified the reform of the IRPF to allow returnees to recover the pay in interest and sanctions, reality is quite different. These are small samples to give the impression that if you're working -- let's repeat -- to solve a problem that's not really getting fixed, to turn the partridge down and talk about other things. There's a similar attitude, from the Union and the Central Government, that of the situation of mariners grouped into the Long Hope association, who have been fighting for years before the Norwegian authorities for the right to a pension to be recognised after they've embarked on their entire life in ships in that country. And it seems that the People's Party's performance process is always the same: beautiful words, small gestures towards the gallery to give an image of what people work for, but no real solution. They worry a lot, but they don't do anything. Well, just like they're going to try to buy them at night with some promise, or they're trying to force some sort of guy, as happened to the long-hope sailors. But in the case of returned emigrants the only competent authority is Spain, and they are not worth excuses, because the truly responsible and guilty of this are the gentlemen who are now in the People's Party Government. So -- we are going to support these four measures that the Galician Nationalist Block presents here, because they are in line with what we also defend in Marea. So we're going to support this whole initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u68	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to make my exposure today with the greatest technical rigor possible, trying to explain technical issues that might have difficulty — I apologize to you in advance if I am unable to do so — and also with the sensitivity that gives me some support that in my professional practice I had to make return emigrants. Look, the approach is that we can argue and we can not vote in favour of this, but that's not why we're against returned migrants. As we speak of dignity and justice, we must also consider the situation of Spanish pensioners, who can be affected by solutions such as those proposed here. I'm just entering the LNP proposals, and I'd also like to touch each one of them. First of all, they ask that the limits below which no statement should be made be unified. Look, in the IRPF pensioners don't have to file a statement when their pensions are under 22,000 euros, if they're subject to retention. If pensions, as is the case with returned migrants, are not subject to retention, the limit is set at EUR 12,000. Why this difference? I'll try to move it with an example. Let's think of two twin brothers, Juan and Pepe, who live in Coppeto today and are 70 years old. Juan worked his whole life in the Coruña and now he's retired, and he's receiving a pension. And Pepe, whom we can call "The French," emigrated to France and is now living in Respect and receiving a pension from France. The same pension: 18,000 euros gross annually. Juan, who worked in Spain, receives the Spanish Social Security pension, but does not enter his bank account 18,000 euros a year, he enters 16,200. You know why? Because the Spanish Social Security has detained him. If, for example, we imagine 10 percent tax, he's got the €1,800 retention. That is why — and this is so — does not present, or does not have an obligation, the statement, because it is understood that the retention has already paid the same tax as the declaration. What about Pepe or France? That the 18,000 euros that come to you from France are entered in your bank account, because France does not hold you. That's why you have to file the income statement. You know what would happen here if we didn't do this? That we would be treating the Spanish pensioners unfairly against returned immigrants. That is, without a doubt, from a technical point of view. Look, they also talk about the elimination of retroactivity — I say what makes the PNL — of the first additional provision of Law 26/2014. What is the situation of pensions? First, the general principle that comes out of double taxation agreements — and that is not what I say, is general tax technique — is that, in the case of pensions, taxation is given in the country of residence. In the case of Pepe, The French, general taxation must be in the country of residence. This is a subject you have no doubt about. For many years, as there were no withholdings, the Tax Agency had no information on these pensions. So what happened was there were people who didn't declare. There were also many returned emigrants who had already made a statement before all this mess, about 20%. What's wrong? That at some point, through information exchange systems, the Tax Agency begins to have information on these pensions. And what he does is he always does: when things are not declared, the Tax Agency does, if it is the case, regularizations and imposes sanctions. The truth is, this was a subject with great sensitivity. There were, of course, platforms of returnees and also this Parliament drew, not as you said, a non-law proposition that was accepted by the Tax Agency in 2013. And what was done was to forgive. They were not told that they didn't have to pay the tax, but sanctions, recharges and interest of delay were suspended, and an extraordinary period of regularization was opened, from January 1 to June 30 2015, in which all pensions without interest payments, recharges or, of course, sanctions were allowed. It's done, ladies and gentlemen, blurry and new account. He said, "OK, from here on, we understand that there has been a mistake, we've fixed it without sanctions, and from now on, we all know that we have to pay the tax. If we made another solution now, do you know who we would be harming? Not only to Spanish pensioners, but also to return emigrants who are meeting their tax obligations in accordance with the general principle of income tax for natural persons in Spain. Look, there's a theme in point (c) when they talk about disability pensions, where they ask for automatic recognition of foreign certificates. And I'm telling you on this subject that's a sensitive subject. We must bear in mind that the Spanish Social Security legislation does not agree with the other countries. This issue is not a solution that we can make directly, we should go through double taxation agreements and negotiate the recognition of these certificates with a principle of reciprocity. I mean, if I recognize France's certificates, France should recognize Spain's certificates. And finally, with regard to the point at which they ask that double taxation agreements already be agreed, please don't confuse returned migrants. Double taxation agreements are very clear: taxation of pensions in the country of residence, there can be no assumption of double taxation. If we talk about the agreement with Germany, it is an agreement that is precisely changed in this sense since 2011. I'm done. They spoke here a lot about the European Committee on Petitions. This response, of course, in Petition 2334, presented by the Returned Emigrants Platform of the Vigo County. And if they're not worth my explanations, you answer in the same technical sense that I just put here as manifesto. He also said that "the Commission would like to add that the petitioner's understanding of Spanish legislation is not entirely correct". That's not what I'm saying, to the Commission. Please don't confuse returned migrants. emigrants returned for their pensions, if they exceed 12,000 euros, have to tax in Spain without any doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u70	Let's transfer true information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u71	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u72	Yes, I understand. For now, reading ability, although usually from this bench they think I don't have too much, I still have something left. And even if it doesn't look like the honourable Member of the People's Party and the others, I thank them for the technical discussions, because I learn a lot from them. [[Applause]] It is true that, fundamentally, this humble honourable Member is thanking them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But this is a parliament, we must also talk about political decisions and then we have technical decisions. [[Applause]] If you let me point out any of the questions that are put on the table, such as the realization of the drafting of the point with regard to disability pensions, if you want to deal with any particular matter, we can see it. But the political background and the problems that this question raises are highly demonstrated; not only because of the example I put, but because of what the judgments of the courts are saying and the difficulties that this collective is having for the regularization of their situation, for going forward some matter of the many that came out in the short time that I have. We understand that this is a problem that, in some cases, has an easy solution to another regulatory framework and to some matter of formal processing. Because the modification itself that was made in 2014 was the origin of many dysfunctions, in which before it gave me no time to enter but which also the Voicer of En Marea announced. We understand that it is not appropriate to comply with the fact that, as a result of a certain movement in society, if you had made that change. We must not settle in the sense that there are still many people affected. And not only is this proposal to be approved, but also in the technical debate they had to say to the Fatenda technicians about the irregularities there was. We understand that this question needs to be reconsidered. Here was a legal framework and suddenly there was a change of opinion. It's true that in one part there could be such questions as those that commented on the voice of the People's Party, unregulated issues. But in a very important part that change of criteria was due to a change of criteria with a recalibration objective. And why this collective? Then also because they underestimated the people. But I wonder: if the judgments are giving reason to all these collectives in absolutely all cases, as is the question of Germany — on which proposals were also adopted in this Parliament at the initiative of the BNG and we are not too clear yet what did the People's Party in the State to reinducate it — and if the Tax Agency understands as a public pension, in the German case, the derivative of both a public job and a private job, why, if the courts are recognizing this issue, is it not automatically empowered? So for a very simple question: because they would be about 200,000 affected throughout the state and it's much better that you only protest about only 2% and that, therefore, there is no reduction in the state's income through this route. Because, of course, the Tax Agency itself does not resort to the Supreme. He doesn't resort to the Supreme because he knows he'd end up sitting law and he'd have to enable a solution to this issue. We understand that this remains fully vigilant, it remains absolutely just, and more in a week like this, in which unfortunately we see so many cases, on the one hand, of absolute profit. And that's not comparable to the case of returned Welsh immigrants. And no more questions such as the political background that the Spanish State may have intended to raise a pension that does not pay and which has not been paid in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the recovery of the labour rights of the teaching staff
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u74	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales and by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, presents the following amendment to this non-legislation proposal.Additional amendment.It is proposed to add a new point in the resolution with the following text:"4. To defend before the Spanish Government the derogation from Decree-Law 14/2012 of 20 April, urgent measures to rationalise public expenditure in the field of education and Decree-Law 20/2012 of 13 July, measures to ensure budgetary stability and to promote competitiveness."]] [[G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of his colleague Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, through the spokesperson and the authorship of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law amendment.Amendment of amendment.The resolution of the initiative must be replaced by the following text:The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1a]] Retrieve the dialogue with social agents to draw up a recovery plan for all the work rights of teaching staff and the set of self-employed public employees. 2(a) Ensuring the salary review clause to ensure, at least, the annual salary increase of the teacher and of all self-employed public employees equal to the IPC. 3(a) To repeal the changes imposed by Law 12/2014 so that the professor and the rest of the self-employed public employees included in the special social security system of administrative mutualism receive 100% of all wages and benefits from the first day of temporary disability (IT). 4(a) Derogate from the Order of 23 June 2011 to recover the 21 hours of teaching.)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u75	To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u76	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Today we're going to talk about parallel universes. The truth is that every plenary meeting seems to be a compendium of them, even if we don't mention them. I imagine you know this theory, especially on the popular bench. For the least lay people in the matter, or for those who don't know anything about quantum physics, as I have to admit to my case, I will try to make a brief and simple explanation with the famous example of Schrödinger's cat. This known paradox speaks of an opaque box with a cat inside. The cat, as long as it doesn't open the box, may be alive or dead at once. And only when it opens do we check in what state it's in. That way it's the view that the cat's state is fixed. For the common mortals that we live in a world where objects remain in their place and things hit us if we hit them, it's very hard to understand this theory. For Members of the People's Party, it seems not so much. In this way, we find ourselves with the parallel universe of the People's Party in which the president asks and the opposition has an obligation to answer, where the cuts are an invention of the opposition's Members and the Members of Parliament, where the professor is delighted with the treatment he receives from the Union, the classes reduce the ratios and school failure is a thing of the past. In the other, in the parallel universe where the common mortals live, the opposition raises the questions and the president slips his responsibilities by looking elsewhere when he is asked about the corruption that his party attends, where the Greek teacher works and studies the country's children and children, privatization progresses as public schools accumulate years and years of cuts and abandonment; where the staff of the elderly educational centres, the teachers' school hours increase, wages go down and the teachers feel mistreated, and where precariousness is consolidated. They are parallel universes that the People's Party conjugates as no one, because, on the one hand, it analyzes the reality in that universe of recovery in which they live, but then they apply the policies of the other parallel universe, of the universe of the crisis; two parallel universes, therefore, which intertwine simultaneously. Thus, while the Greek Government insists on the speech of the alleged economic recovery, the fact is that the teachers and teachers in Galicia suffer from the measures of the other parallel universe, that of the crisis — those who work in the public at least. Well, as we have explained on numerous occasions, the crisis, like the supposed recovery, goes and goes through neighborhoods. By way of example, we can look at the budgets this year, which increase twice as much in concerted education as they do in the public, thus insisting on the trend that made since 2009 the amount of public money to privatize educational centres had increased by 69%. Meanwhile, the economic crisis served as an excuse for dismantling the public education service, affecting the student, who is suffering a decrease in quality; the families, who had to face new reparations; and the professor, who accumulated years of cuts and wage freezes that led them to lose nothing more and nothing less than, in eight years, between 25% and 26% of purchasing power. Imagine what it's like to live with 25 percent less pay. On the one hand, they added the salary cut of the Government of Zapatero and, on the other hand, the cut in the specific complement of the extraordinary payments that has driven the Government of Junta, applied since 2013, when the Education Council determined that the extra payments would no longer charge the specific supplements without any reason; so those of teachers, sexians, singulars and charges, so that all extra payments would be cut between 40% and 50%. Finally, from 2013 to today, in just four years, the German teaching collective almost lost a full extra payment each year, being the only teachers from all over the state who didn't charge the autonomic part in the outstanding payments of 2016. This assumed that the Greek teachers had lost some amounts from the year 2013 that ranged from 4,660 euros for a master without antiquity to 8,446 euros for a professor with thirty years of service; but they must be inventions of the En Marea group. The abuse of rights did not occur only in the question of wages, but it was the constant treatment they received in their labour rights, so it happened, for example, in the coverage of work casualties. Law 12/2014 — since it has often been spoken in this House — in its additional fourth provision, established that they would receive 50% of both basic and complementary wages and the provision of dependent children, if that is the case, from the first to the third day of the situation of temporary disability, regardless of whether it is the first or the second or more temporary disability within the natural year. A provision that incomprehensibly penalises the diseases of teachers of the public staff. But not only that, the German Government refuses to cover the teacher's casualties in the first 15 days. In those 15 days, it doesn't matter whether the children are being cared for or not. But we're not just talking about economic issues, working conditions also have to get worse at the rate of inter-internity, which went from something less than 5%, when the People's Party arrived at the Government, to 13% of what it leaves today. What's this increase supposed to mean? Less public employment, the worst paid and the worst quality, and it also means worse quality in teaching and worse opportunities for those who need it most. So it's just the student with specific educational needs that requires continuous attention and not changing from teacher to teacher. Imagine, for example, the autistic children in the classrooms and what it means for them to have a teacher today and for the week to come. This is the most dramatic consequence of increasing interinternage in the quality of education that children in Galicia receive; rotation and instability that is also given in rural centres. In this way, students and students in rural schools have taught differently every year, preventing continuous and personalized attention to their social, personal and educational needs. At the same time, the Order of 23 June 2011 regulating the working day of staff members and teachers who teach regulated lessons in Organic Law 2/2006 has increased from 21 hours per week to 25 hours; an increase that makes it very difficult to meet the rest of their professional obligations, that any teacher knows that they are far out of school hours. You have to keep in mind how many hours you're supposed to be able to prepare for a single hour of class. Who else has the consequences? Well, once again, who else needs it. It turns out you can't speak of a truly inclusive school if the teacher working in it doesn't have enough time to meet the needs of students and students. And they know no, they're not covering properly. It's funny that they don't follow the example of the countries around them who so much like to look at and usually go higher in education rankings. All these educational systems, if anything has in common, beyond different methodologies or different ideological concepts, is the social and political consideration of teachers and teachers. Is this an accomplished government with its employees in public education? Nothing further from reality, and the bottom line would be: why are the cuts kept? Doesn't the People's Government insist that the economic situation in Galicia has turned for good over the last three years? So why are these pay cuts and labour rights kept for the teaching staff in Galicia? Is it not worth the professor who depends on the Council of Education of the Galician Union, at least, a treatment equal to what teachers and teachers from the rest of the state receive? Or does the cocoa recovery only serve to give great headlines but not to pay with dignity to the workers and workers in the public education of Greek? From En Marea we consider the compensation and restitution of all the distorted rights of all employees and employees in the public sector and, of course, of all teachers and teachers in Galicia, because the quality of education depends on that. That's why we put forward the following non-law proposal: The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to, first of all, resume dialogue with social agents to draw up a recovery plan for all the work rights of the teaching staff. It is time for the Council to abandon this attitude of lack of dialogue with social agents. Secondly, to ensure the salary review clause to ensure, at least, the annual salary increase of the teacher equal to the IPC. Third, by derogating the changes in taxes by Law 12/2014, so that the professor receives 100 percent of all pay from the first day of temporary disability. And in the fourth and final place, to derogate the Order of June 23, 2011 to recover the 21 hours of a lecture. If we can improve these four points, we will certainly be able to improve the quality of teaching that our daughters and our children need. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u78	Good morning. Thank you, President. By the band of the Galego Nationalist Block we will support this proposal presented in Marea. We have incorporated an amendment to bring closer to the points already taken by the initiative, and it would be those mentioned to urge the Government of the Union to transfer to the Government of the Spanish State the need for the derogation of Decree 14/2012, on urgent measures to rationalise public spending in the educational field, and 20/2012, on budgetary stability. In both cases, they assumed a significant loss both in terms of labour rights and in terms of public employees' wages, in particular, which is what we are facing here today, in terms of our country's public education teacher. And by a little bit of memory, in connection with this debate and this initiative, I recalled that on 10 March, specifically on 10 March 2015, there was debate in this very House about a popular legislative initiative driven by the IGC-Teaching regarding the labour rights of teaching staff in our country and also about the quality of public education. Among other issues, some of which are now being incorporated into this initiative are asked, and proposed, in addition, long-term solutions to ensure labour rights and the quality of public education conditions in our country, including a Greek statute of the teaching civil service to ensure the working rights that have been stolen over the last few years to that staff board of the public service, worsening their working conditions, among other issues due to loss, also through depreciation, of 1,500 teaching places in our country, which have a direct correlation in the quality of the service provided to the whole of our country's students. I think the positions are perfectly explained and exposed by En Marea's voicer. We're in addition to that demand, which is a cry about the teaching staff's picture in our country. Besides, it's nothing new but it goes back years ago. Specifically, I was bringing this debate today, which, of course, did not count on the support of the People's Party and therefore took that popular legislative initiative, which must also be remembered that it was endorsed by almost 23,000 signatures collected among the educational community in our country. We understand that these working conditions must be returned by the quality, precisely, of the service we offer to our student population. Today I was also thinking - and I was now commenting on En Marea's voice in relation to the situation with which we found ourselves in the teaching centres, particularly in rural schools - on the difficulties faced by teaching professionals in these teaching centres, more and more crowded, and I recalled a debate we had in commission not long ago, exactly one month ago, in which we asked, among other matters, by the BNG Parliamentary Group, which had provided a teaching place at Antía Cal, in Muras, which counts uniquely and exclusively with a teacher to attend a group of ten students. We're still waiting for her, even though we've reached an agreement with the People's Party to urge the Galician Union to enable that square. We were then assured that it was a matter of very little time that this teaching square was granted to the CRA Antía Cal, in Muras, and we were still waiting for it. I don't know if you can do anything for that student to tell, as it is, the teacher squares he needs. We already say that we will support this initiative. We also hope that our amendment will be accepted. We're also willing to talk about it, if necessary, because the working conditions of the teaching staff are directly linked to the quality of teaching that we provide to students in our country. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u80	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. By the Socialist Parliamentary Group, logically, we also share this initiative presented by En Marea, and the considerations made by the spokesman for the Nationalist Block. Because it is true that this initiative is confined to the field of public servants of education, and indeed for us, as we have said on many occasions, it is a nuclear matter and perhaps it is the key issue in the welfare state to have educational services as a fundamental element in ensuring or trying to level social inequalities. In this sense, the initiative is part of the wage cuts journey, which we have already commented on on on more than one occasion in this House, both at the level of this plenary session and at the level of committee, when we have been talking from the beginning of the session period of all the issues that we consider necessary in the field of public employment. It is true that in Galicia, as we have pointed out on many occasions and I think that sometimes this does not seem to come up, this idea, sufficiently everywhere, must insist again and again that the Government of Galicia's Union was the Government which has most reduced the wages of public employees throughout the country, throughout Spain, between 2013 and 2016. That 25% who commented on En Marea's voice is like that. And there's a question that we rarely had occasion to note, now talking about the education staff, as it was that this reduction in wages in Galicia was especially hard with the teaching staff with greater curriculum excellence and with greater research excellence. Because I remember well how, because of the competences, the greatest economic, wage restriction, to the teaching staff, and very specifically to all university teachers, the most punished were precisely the most excellent in terms of curriculum experience and research. This has always been a paradox — since it is mild in the use of the word — that I think it must be pointed out precisely on the basis of this initiative. And when on many occasions you've also talked about a reduction, a loss of extra pay, you have to say that the concept of extra pay is one more part of the pay structure, but someone might think it's a kind of grace or gift. The extra payment is no longer a component of that pay system, and working on the extra payment is working on the salary set than public employees perceive. We, as I said in that inquiry that we presented in this Chamber on 8 February, which gave rise to the corresponding motion, already denounced the loss of more than 2,000 or 2,500 stable staff in the field of education, we already spoke of the 3,000 jobs in the field of health, the 2,700 jobs lost - we will always insist - in terms of staff working in R & D, the 400 staff in the field of universities and all the precariousness and temporalization of public employment. On account of that question, we presented that motion in which, among other matters, and the part of trying to emphasize much, because it was the main issue perhaps at that time, and still being, the necessary opening in public employment offers of the replacement rates, we made another series of calls that led to the repeal of the suspensions, precisely, of the V Collective Convention, which also refers to the penalties for situations of temporary disability, also to the recovery of the remunerative agreements also in the Galego Health Service, or to the creation of a special fund for remunerative recovery during the term, the period 2017-2020, for the recovery of all wages reduced and cut during the period 2013-2016 in Galicia - I insist - in particular with regard to the rest of the public employees in Spain. Of course, none of these issues have been accepted by the People's Party, for which we are considering and knowing that their responsiveness to these initiatives will be virtually null and void, because even though in this recent decree of 2017 it has been unblocked — because it was no longer a remedy — the call for oppositions in terms of access to public service teaching and university, all the rest of the public employment remains for unlocking the rest of the public employment in terms of rest rates so that it can be continued with that recovery, if it does not improve the quality of public services. We, for our part, have tabled an amendment in favour of the initiative, of course, but we understand that all this claim of labour and remuneration must be extended to all public employees; those which affect administrative mutualism, too, and those other groups of public employees who continue to welcome the special regime of social security and administrative mutualism. And I also want to point out that this derogation from the June 23, 2011 order must be completed with the 2012 derogation, which was the one which has also affected high school hours. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u81	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u82	Very good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Chao, you started very well, but obviously, as they are now in We can look for Tertullians, I think you could introduce yourself. You live in parallel universes where you choose who goes, who has to go, like Tertullian, to a medium of communication. That's the parallel universe in which they live... that's the parallel universe in which they want to demand independent media what they have to think... now Irene Montero has just said she demands to go. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Explained words not perceived]] You can demand it too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u83	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u84	And now, as our President of the House would say, we're going to the subject. Mr Villoslada, call me attention that you agree with this initiative, since this initiative is specifically collected and notes the wage cuts that President José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero has made; with which, I am surprised, but I am also pleased that you recognize and agree with this initiative. Mrs. Chao, the needs of the education system are covered, since Galicia has committed teaching professionals who are demonstrating an unquestionable and commendable attitude of delivery and effort. On the other hand, dialogue with trade union organizations has always been maintained and continues to be maintained, as evidenced by the multiple agreements reached with trade union organizations, as has been reported here on many occasions by the councillor of Fairy. The German student did not see the quality of education reduced in these years of crisis, as all the indicators that his group, the En Marea Group, who presents the initiative, believe it to be ignored. With regard to salary cuts, we must point out that no specific salary reduction has been made in the Autonomous Community of Galicia for teaching staff belonging to any of the bodies covered by Organic Law 2/2006, of education. So even if that were the case, any relative negotiation of purchasing power recovery would have to be carried out and put on the table at the General Public Employees' Table, and also taking into account the limitations in this field derived from the basic regulations of the State. Let me quote that, in the OECD review report on policies to improve the effectiveness of the use of education resources in 2016, in that report prepared by the National Institute for Education Evaluation of the Ministry of Education, it is clear that in no case is it mentioned that the Government's wage policy with respect to teachers is related to the concept of devaluation; on the contrary, taking as a source the OECD report of 2015, it is mentioned that the salary of teachers in Spain remains higher than the combined average wage of OECD and EU 21 countries, whether compared with the initial salary or the comparison of fifteen years of teaching experience or with the maximum salary of the scale, and all that refers to all levels. It also mentions in its initiative Law 12/2014 on tax measures, referring to the salary perception of staff in situations of temporary disability due to common illness or non-working accidents. In this regard, it should be recalled that this is currently regulated in Article 146 of Law 2/2015 of the Public Employment of Galicia. Finally, it suggests that the Order of 23 June 2011 regulating the working day of staff members and teaching workers who teach lessons regulated in Law 2/2006 says that the teacher's educational day has passed that it teaches children and primary education from 21 hours a week to 25 hours, and that this involves a worse educational quality. And here I want to note several things. First of all, the school hours from 25 hours to 21 hours were reduced in the Autonomous Community of Galicia by an agreement of the Council with the trade union organisations on 30 April 2007. And the 25-hour lecture for the teacher who teaches children and primary education was established by Royal Decree Law 14/2012, of urgent measures to rationalize public spending in the educational field. The teaching time in Galicia of this professor rose from 21 to 25 hours a week prior to this decree, in an order of 23 June 2011. In the explanatory statement of this rule, the experience accumulated in these years advises to denounce the agreement in this section of the working day and to re-establish a weekly teaching time of 25 hours for the teaching staff. Therefore, the reason for this increase in school hours is not in economic criteria and rather in the conviction transferred by many officers to the Education Council that the increase of the professor who submitted the agreement in the centers did not compensate for the reduction of hours which meant that the professor had spent 25 to 21 hours in school. And by setting an example of a center with 6 children's education units and 12 primary education, in the end, the increase in hours is 112 hours of schooling. With this increase you're saying that with more school hours there's a worse educational quality. I think your group might be confusing the quality of teaching with the working conditions of the teacher, and maybe, following this theory of you, if the professor had zero hours of education, the educational quality would be maximum, following your reasoning. We think it doesn't make any sense. And finally, they call for a wage review clause to ensure a raise in wages, but this will mean that you are beyond the competences of the Council of Culture, the Council of Galicia and even this Parliament of Galicia. And I would like to point out, as you should know, that on 21 December 2016 the plenary of the Congress of Deputies approved the creation of the Subcommission for the Commission on Education and Sport for the development of a social and political status pact for education in which many opinions will be collected, many proposals, to finally sign that agreement. So we do not agree with your proposals or with your background in this proposal, and we will therefore vote against it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u85	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u86	First of all, I would like to thank the opposition groups for their support, as well as to announce that we will accept both the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block and that of the Socialist Party, because we believe that they perfectly complement our initial proposal. On the other hand, I regret, without any surprise, once again, the refusal of the People's Party. And don't get confused, yours isn't a no to En Marea, nor is it a no to our voters, it's a no to the workers and workers of public education in Galicia, it's a no to the workers and workers who have endured so many years of pay cuts, it's a no to all of Galician students and it's a no to bet on a quality public education. And, Mr. Moreira, you're right about something. Of course, not only did you cut the teacher's rights -- congratulations! -- you cut the rights of all the public staff. Thanks to you, today everyone is more precarious, not just the teacher, all the public employees; then -- no yes -- we have to give him the reason. We also regret that we insist on using the Greek teacher as a currency of exchange to justify his educational cuts; we regret the good words and the few facts. But as soon as they see us not conform, we will continue to denounce the debt they have incurred with the teaching staff of this country and the contempt for collective bargaining. Yes, I despise, because you say it's not true, that they keep collective bargaining. Yes, that negotiation in which they carry out drafts and then pass different orders. Thus, collective bargaining, any one; they don't deal with topics and they're ready, they can convene sectoral tables. We will continue to denounce the need to recover all the rights that they have taken from them, which have taken us all away, because by cutting off teachers and their salaries, even if you say no, they are cutting off in teaching Galicia's future, they are cutting off in teaching the children and the daughters of the workers in this country, because, in the elites, they did not; while they secured the business of their colleagues in private. Everyone chooses their partners; we already know what the partners of this government are. As has already been said in this House, since En Marea we want to bring this matter precisely in view of the proximity of May 1st, because we wanted to devote this full to the working conditions of this country, which, as we have seen in different interventions, have done only worse since the People's Party arrived in the Government. We also want to remember how much is left to be done, to collect all the claims that will come out on the street next Monday and that, of course, will count on our support. We know it won't be with the support of this government. They have in their hands to improve people's working conditions, but they insist on normalizing precariousness. They haven't been doing it for too many years, making it fall on the teachers' shoulders to their ineffectiveness in the management of public services. And since words don't live, they're of no use to teachers and teachers who tell them how much they want. They want us less and pay them more. Comply with your commitments. That's why we're going to insist: we will continue to jump to the full derogation from all the cuts that came from LOMCE and its Decree 14/2012 to recover the teachers' paintings, lower the student's ratios and eliminate wage discounts for temporary disabilities and we will continue to denounce that since the arrival of this government, the public education has lost 2,000 patients, while in the concert they were growing, because the cuts are not a natural and inevitable fact, they respond to a very concrete ideology and a very concrete purpose; it's about neoliberalism and their desire to transform our rights into merchandise and business.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. After the debates on non-law proposals have been closed, we proceed to the vote on them. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u88	We voted first of all for the People's Parliamentary Group. Amendments to the other groups were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People in Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and seven other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece to support the FP centres and the ICFP as the driving force behind innovation in the Italian business sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 55; abstentions, 17. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u89	We are now voting for the Group of the European People's Party. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted as an addition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u90	We finally changed the paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u91	They'll have to get us that text, or read it now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u92	It would be like this: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Union to amend the current employment relationship of the Conseilería do Medio Rural, in the sense that the duration of the reinforcement staff's contracts for the summer campaign of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defence Service and the Seaga collective is increasing over the current three months, being equated with workers and workers, the staff has dissociated, extending the contractual relationship to a total of nine months."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u93	Thank you. Let us vote on this text. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members, on the extension by the Government of Greece to nine months of the reinforcement staff contracts for the summer campaign of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u94	We voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and two other Members, on the adoption by the Government of a plan to combat fraud in autonomic public procurement. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u95	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Pierres López. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was accepted and proposed to the People's Parliamentary Group that its membership be added. Do you agree? [[Refusal.]] You don't agree. So we only voted with the acceptance of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block in Galicia. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Luisa Pierres López and three other Members, on the realization by the Government of Galicia of a report on the state of compliance of the autonomous legislation on equality laid down in Article 67 of Legislative Decree 2/2015, of 12 February 2015, in the autonomous bodies, in public societies, in the foundations of the public sector of Galicia, in the public authorities linked or dependent entities of the Autonomous Community and in bodies with differentiated allocation in the general budgets of the Autonomous Community. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u96	We are now voting on the proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Fernández Prado. A transaction was accepted which includes a first part of the amendment, which I read to them. It is to introduce a new point, which would be point 3, to the initial proposal; and this point 3 says: "Asking the Government of Spain for the use of the appropriate budgetary and administrative mechanisms to ensure that the improvement study of the railway line Ferrol-A Coruña is completed in the first quarter of 2018 and then the execution of the said study begins." We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and nine other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government for the impetus of the modernisation of the railway connection between The Coruña and Ferrol, as well as strategic planning in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 54; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. This text was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u97	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Rodil Fernández. It is not accepted as a replacement amendment, but rather as an addition to the Parliamentary Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u98	No, no, no; you don't accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u99	None accepted. So let me put the question to the vote — which is what you said to me before — on points. In particular, we are voting first of all on point 1 of this non-law proposal. Let's vote... what's the problem? [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I just didn't hear anything, Mr. Puy. What do you want the word for? Thank you. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u100	I didn't ask for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u101	Ah! No, it's just, like I heard... well, if you want... anyway, you can ask for the word. [[Laughter]] You know this isn't... So the question remains — because we are distracted by this — that point 1 is voted first and then points 2 and 3. We shall therefore vote on the first point of this non-law motion. Let's vote for the first point. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the Order of 14 March 2017, which sets out the rules for the implementation of the curriculum of educational concerts with private teaching centres for the 2017-2018 and subsequent academic courses. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1 of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u102	And now we are voting on point 2 and point 3 of the non-legislation proposal. We vote. Vote of points 2 and 3 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the Order of 14 March 2017, which sets out the rules for the implementation of the curriculum of educational concerts with private teaching centres for the 2017-2018 and subsequent academic courses. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 17 votes against, 40; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. Paragraphs 2 and 3 of this non-law proposal are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u103	We are now voting on the proposal from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Presas Berganginos. We vote... Sorry? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u104	If you can give me a voice... We shall accept the vote by points. We've already reached an agreement with the People's Party. So we propose the grouped vote of points (a) (b) and (d) and then the separate vote of point (c) with the new text which, if I may, I read.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u105	Read it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u106	"The Spanish Government's request that a clause allowing the recognition of invalidity certificates from any of the contracting States for the purposes of the tax obligations which they may have of their pensions in the country of residence of the pensioner" should be introduced in negotiations of the double taxation agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u107	Thank you. [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? Ask the word, you have the right, and explain what the problem is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u108	It's a formal matter. I believe that, for you to understand it, it is better to go as number 2 and that the points (a) (b) and (d) as point 1; that is, as point 2 what you just read, not as a letter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u109	Perfect. We then voted first of all on point 1 which would be proposals (a) (b) and (d). We vote. Vote of point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the demand by the Greek Government to the central government for a legal regularization in the taxation of the pensions of returned emigrants. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1 of this text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u110	And now we are voting, secondly, on point (c)... Excuse me? [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Puy Fraga: Point two.]] Point 2. Point 2, including point (c), which is the transaction you made. It's the same, said otherwise. We vote. Vote of point 2 of the proposed non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Noa Presas Bergantinos and five other Members, on the demand by the Greek Government to the central government for a legal regularization in the taxation of the pensions of returned emigrants. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. Point 2 of this text is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u111	We are now voting on the proposal from the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Chao Pérez and Mrs Cuña Bóveda. It has already been stated that they accept the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We voted, then, with the incorporation of those amendments. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. De En Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the recovery of the work rights of the teaching staff. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u112	After the vote, we proceeded to debate agenda item 5, which corresponds to the request for an appeal. Interpellation by Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and Ms. Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, from the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to transparency and good governance in its management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u113	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again, gentlemen. Mr Counsellor, Mr Vice-President, let us — I believe the whole House — be pleased that they recapitulate on yesterday's proposal when drawing up a specific plan on combating fraud and corruption in the field of self-sustaining public tenders. It will be important to know the terms in which it develops because, logically, we will be vigilant. And I believe that even at Commission level 1st we can do an important job so that the new anti-fraud and anti-corruption measures in Galicia are real and effective, beyond the simple improvements, which are no less important in terms of management. Mr Counsellor, especially in these days and minutes — but for too long now — society needs permanent light and tachographs in public action, political action. Counsellor, we also need to put a real health cordon in Galicia in the field of prevention and fight against corruption and fraud. Counsellor, we all know that the insufficient transparency and public exemplaryness that the corruption that permanently afflicts us relentlessly undermines our democratic system, our democratic quality, which is being replaced by absolutely extremist attitudes. We can't admit that it's called "simple messes" what we're looking at all these days as absolutely or allegedly corrupt behaviors. We are hardly going in this country if we consider these issues to be a problem by certain ministerial authorities. And by making a more environmentally friendly symbol, what we need is that the waters of public management, of political action, are always lowered as clean as possible, with the maximum clearance, so that they are not contaminating, as it has been very common, the state co-occlusions and that the sea of democracy is not continuing to fade, as is happening precisely these days by observing the behaviors of the political oligarchies that we were also commenting on yesterday. Mr. Rueda, concepts such as transparency, good governance, new governance, as a democratic quality, now more than ever, respond to an imperative need to put down the practical quotas of fraud and mass corruption, overcoming the initial theories that pushed these policies simply — which is not a little — to improve the mechanisms of decision-making and political participation a few years ago. The citizenry is absolutely disillusioned, totally affected by the wave of corruption that afflicts us throughout the Spanish geography. This disenchantment lies in the institutions and also in us, in the representatives of citizenship, perceived as alienated from reality and from the general interest; and in the political parties, of course, as closed and waterproof organizations to the demands which the citizen considers to be priority, or, worse, as capable of assuming, indeed, but incompetent to respond to them. The report that we have also once again brought the July 2016 collation of the Group of States against Corruption, the Greek Group, the Council of Europe, is a severe correction to the inaction of the Spanish authorities — the Government of the People's Party against the People's Party — in concluding that our country has not satisfactorily observed any of the recommendations contained in its fourth cycle assessment report of 2014. Without any kind of palliative, Greek generally qualifies as unsatisfactory the degree of non-compliance with its recommendations. Indeed, the governments of the People's Party have always sought to create the appearance of pushing an ambitious package of initiatives aimed at combating corruption, but the socio-political reality of our country — let us remember permanently the barriers of the Center for Sociological Research or the conclusions of the Greek Report itself 2016 — unequivocally reject this failed claim, not addressing the demands advocated by the Council of Europe itself. It is true that Galicia — as we all know — was a pioneer in Spain to implement the necessary transparency commitments with the adoption of Law 4/2006, transparency and good practice in the Greek Public Administration. As we know, new sectoral requirements, the new state framework established by Basic Law 19/2013, of transparency, access to public information and good governance, have given rise to the new Galician Law 1/2016, which declares the importance — and is relevant — not only of the content offered but also of the quality of the content offered in institutional information, legal relevance or in matters such as relations with citizenship, public procurement, agreements, personnel, economic and budgetary information. But, without prejudice to the powers which this Act 1/2016 confers upon the institution of the People's Valedor as a Commissioner of Transparency to control the fulfilment of these obligations under Title I of the law — which we had occasion yesterday to observe in the report by the Valorative lady — if we always need to take into account the evaluations, considerations and reports of institutes and specialized independent bodies, so that they help to analyze objectively and advance the citizen's confidence in the exercise of public power. And it turns out — as we have commented on another occasion too — that in December 2016 International Transparency — reference to the very level of quality and transparency on the part of the German Government itself, because it incorporates these quality and international transparency reports into the Transparency Portal itself — has just presented its latest rate of comparative transparency among autonomous communities, and places Galicia at the 13th post of the 17 communities. This index 2016 - at least a few days ago - is still not available on the autonomic portal itself, as if the previous indexes. This is a very striking thing, and that at the Transparency Portal this information is not given seems contradictory at least. There are positive data on economic and financial matters and on access to information, but this report, which I believe is relevant, places Galicia in the remaining areas of work with low transparency rates, such as information from the Autonomous Community, citizen participation, recruitment, agreements, land and urbanism and public works, where Galicia is in the penultimate place. Why is Basque and Balearic Country located first; by the way, Andalusia in the seventh, and Galicia is in position 13? It also draws attention that, despite the repeated commitment of the Government of Greece to this matter, Galicia has come down together with Castile-Leon and Catalonia, nothing more. They are the only three autonomous communities that have fallen at their level of transparency between 2014 and 2016. In addition, this report — as we have already discussed in Commission 1a — includes for the first time a qualitative assessment on the set of the ten indicators selected by this organization to analyse precisely that qualitative perspective, and places Galicia only as acceptable, generally improving the average quality level shown in the benchmarks. This simple appearance of fighting corruption through the profusion of rules of transparency and combating fraud is what we have to overcome with real policies that overcome more formal instruments in search of real and effective transparency; effective mechanisms that highlight objective, ethical and social use of public resources. The Spanish courts have prosecuted or opened proceedings for corruption crimes to 1,378 persons, involved in a total of 166 cases, only in the period from July 2015 to September 2016, according to the latest report submitted by the President of the General Council of the Judiciary. In Galicia this figure is in 20 people of these causes. And a total of 399 people were convicted of corruption crimes corresponding to these cases. If it is true that Galicia took its first important steps in 2006, and advanced in 2016 in legislative measures on transparency and good governance, it is also that Galicia needs effective labour standards and plans that can be verified and evaluated by different institutions and bodies, not only statutory, but even external bodies. We have also had occasion yesterday to read the chapter devoted to transparency in the report of the People's Valedor for 2016, or even in the report submitted by the Interdepartmental Committee on Information and Evaluation regarding the year 2016, and the two reports, of course, collect quantitative data on the type of information entries, type of instruments for which access is made, but what we really need is a qualitative analysis of what the transparency situation is, and neither the report of the People's Valedor institution - although we hope that this step will be taken forward - nor the reports of the Interdepartmental Commission itself provide us with any kind of information of value, in qualitative terms, about, really, what are the reasons and where the eves are in terms of transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u116	Yes, Mr. President, right now I'm done. There are many issues that we still need to underline in the area of transparency in order to be able to move forward in an important way. But I didn't want to end this intervention either without quoting. I don't want to be frivolous, but sometimes literary quotes help us understand reality. When Francisco de Quevedo, in mighty gentleman is Don Dinero, he said to us: "He was born in the honest Indians / — referring to gold—Where the world accompanies him; / He comes to die in Spain,/ And is in Genoa buried.", looking for similarities that we have to take into account... I remember, in this sense... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u118	Yes, right now, president. That's why the Socialist Parliamentary Group urges the German Government to... forgive, make an inquiry to know what the new policies will be, during this new mandate, to substantially improve the levels of transparency in the autonomous administration of Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Villoslada. The Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, Public Administrations and Justice, Mr Rueda, have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Nothing, don't worry, it's not to be frivolous to be a poet. There is absolutely no problem where we talk about these issues. It's more, I'm glad. I think this is a struggle that interests us all, and you have made several rounds to finally ask the central question of your interpellation — so I understand it — what is it that you have planned to do the Government of Greece to continue to make progress in the area of transparency, in the field of combating corruption, in matters of continuing to gain the confidence of citizens? In the end, I think they're all questions that lead to the same objective. So I have no doubt that this is our interest. I suppose it'll also be yours, even if you're poetic, and it'll be that of everyone who works or works in public affairs. Of course, I'm not going to reduce this -- as you said -- to the subject of gossip. There was a prominent socialist leader who said that EREs were practices from the past that brought their cause into administrative agreements that if they had legal protection and that some of them took advantage of their personal profit. Another way to say, perhaps, that they were read. So I don't agree with that, and I don't agree with it either. I don't say that matters that really concern citizenship can be reduced to another category that isn't about matters that need to be resolved, of course, in which transparency must be improved, actually. I totally agree, and that's what we've been working for. It's true that there was a law in 2006, a law that was later passed. You did it in the Bipartite, another thing is the degree of fulfillment, which we can also talk about. You have made the law, then it is true that you have had a rise — and I am very glad — all the policies directed at controlling the activity of public administrations, and so much so that there has been a state law which has been improved in many measures which, of course, were not in force in the law of the Bipartite in 2006, not even in the state law, by the law that passed the Galician Parliament. So no one can deny us that we have developed an ambitious programme of transparency measures. In 2010 we have already launched a Galician recruitment platform, where we have provided a lot of information that is not being given until now. Regardless of whether you tell me in the reply how it appears evaluated this by an audit — there are others who evaluate otherwise — a lot of information is given — that is an objective data — that there is no legal obligation to give, but I think it is good that you know and that you have free access to a matter as sensitive as public procurement. Look, this was supposed to be put on and could have been done before. You didn't. In 2010 we created this Galician recruitment platform, which is continually improving and which makes it very easy to access people who want data, documents, about different bidding procedures, not only those who have a direct interest in being bidders. And we also set out the obligation for local administrations to report to the Board of Auditors for funding from the Galician Council. This was a great milestone at its time in 2010. Could you have done it before? Yes, but it didn't. We did it in 2010. Many of the municipalities at that time saw their chances of gaining access to the Galician board grants, but fortunately they passed the years and today are exceptions that count with one's fingers the municipalities that lose grants for not keeping their accounts up to date. This, in 2010, wasn't like that, much less. I think it was an important advance, no one can question it, and he has made it a government of the People's Party. Have other measures been taken? Yeah, we've been public for years now, the government's heritage statement. This wasn't done before. It could be done, but it wasn't done. We do. The salaries of the management staff are published. And I think that, in the end, all of this leads us to these advances that were given to the Transparency Law in 2016, which collected — as I told you — many of the things that have already been done without being reflected in a legal text, many things that society demanded and many things that were not required in state law, of duty, and of course that were not required in the law of the year 2006 that you elaborated, and that could have demanded. Some probably didn't, because it was after, due to the events, but others could have already demanded at that time. You didn't, but we did. There are as many as 50 elements, 50 data, 50 information groups, which are not required — I say — either in state law or in previous law. I believe that some are as relevant as the average payment time of public sector bills, the financial situation of public accounts, the ratio of goods of cultural interest — this in practice is very important — or the composition of recruitment tables. I think I'm a clear example that we don't want to be alone in words and that from the first day we've been trying to give the maximum information. And another very important thing: that it be accessible information. Because it's very easy to say that the information is there, but if later it's not simple, and even sometimes it's very difficult to consult by a normal citizen, the real problems come, and transparency remains much more in a legal reflection, even though it's shaped in practice on an Internet page. If it's very hard to find that information, eventually transparency is more theoretical than practice. Therefore, the Transparency Portal and the Open Government, which is a consequence of the Transparency Law which has been empowered since the very moment it entered into force, has a lot of systematic information. An information that they gave before 650 web pages, which brings together a lot of documents, and what we're trying to do is it's a portal, a tool. I'm telling you because your question is what we're asking. Listen!, try to give you the utmost living, try to perfect — that is perfect with practice — this unique channel of information that the Galician Union has towards transparency, and try also — I think this is very important — to be done by other administrations. You are perfectly aware — I am sure — of the effort being made by the Galician Union to ensure that local authorities comply with their transparency obligations. Many of them have no means, and if they didn't have these aids -- and so far nobody gave them -- they probably wouldn't. You know that we are in collaboration, also in this, with Fegamp, making it easier for many municipalities to access transparency portals and access the systematization of information that — I insist — they are obliged to give due to legal obligations. So, all of this we're doing. I know perfectly well the qualification obtained by Galicia at the ranking of international transparency. All right. You also say in the interpellation that there are subjects in which we appear well qualified. In the economic-financial information, which I believe is fundamental, and more at this point, it turns out that this is where we achieve a higher score among the autonomous communities. And it must also be said that one thing is ranking and another thing is qualification; the two things are important, but one cannot talk about one and not about the other. Hey, we have over 90 points over 100. This, if you had to make an academic appraisal, it would be a superseding. There are others who still have a higher surplus, all right. Is that what we have to aspire to? Of course! But we have more than 90 over 100 points. So if the idea you're trying to transmit is that we're suspending or not giving information, I suppose not. Of course, if I was saying that, I'd have to say that you're missing the truth or at least giving biased information, that in addition, when we talk about transparency, it's especially important. I can also tell you other rankings that are also elaborate and I think each one deserves respect; I think everyone must be respected. The Consumer and User Organization, which I think has also often believed its objectivity, puts us as Spain's third most transparent community with regard to the information it provides. We want to be the best ranked in all rankings, but above all, what we want to do is do our best to be transparent. So be sure you'll always worry us a lot more and more about trying to meet this goal than trying to be right in rankings. That's good, too, but it's not the main goal. I mean, we could discuss a lot of the rankings, the methods of evaluation, the allegations that are made, at last, all that is important — I insist — without disregarding in any case any of the audits that are made. It's not true what you said this information was not provided either. If you enter the Galician Board Transparency Portal, you will see that there is a direct link to the international transparency valuation, and there are the ratings that reach the Galician board and the rest of the autonomous communities. Just like there are other links to other entities that also do these types of audits and other audits that will be done, because it's not the only one. Before, it's true, this ranking was the only thing that was done. Now they're doing more, and I think we'll agree that it's good that the more audits, the more requests for information exist, the more and when they're objective and well done, the better for everyone. So, is there much left to improve? Of course. But since 2006, I think we've been on an important path. I think it's crucial here to believe that this is important, to believe that this has to do well, and there is no doubt in the Council of Galicia that that will exists. There are also, of course, control mechanisms, and I think they're working. I know that there are opinions here — in my fairly unfair opinion — about the task of the people's Valedor institution, and I must say that, in general, in this specific charge, in this transparency commissioner who gives him the law, he is doing a rigorous job, an objective task. We've just been delivering the data, and I can assure you that it works as a control mechanism for the Galician Union. Therefore, Mr. Villoslada, ladies and gentlemen, I shall sum up. I believe that in this past legislation we have especially done important work, we have taken important steps, sitting, above all, the foundations. There was a rule that was fundamental. That regulation is being complied with. So, if we are finally able, if there is regulation, there is will, there are tools — especially computer tools — that we have to do is take steps to make progress in transparency regardless of the rankings that are obtained, which, I say, we would like to be well classified all the time, but what we like, above all, is to know that we are doing our best to be as transparent as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u121	Thank you very much, Vice President. On the replica round, Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u122	Thank you again, President. Mr. Wheel, we are all absolutely in agreement that the target is not the rankings. That's a very broad debate, like what we've had on many occasions in other areas of university rankings, which can sometimes even be counterproductive or pernicious. I referred to this ranking because it was assumed by the Transparency Portal itself and the open government as what measured the index. But ultimately, the important thing is the objectives, and — as I said — beyond regular management and providing access to information — because the information corresponds to citizenship and that heritage improves our democratic quality — the important thing is to achieve the objectives, and the objectives, at the moment above all, are to establish mechanisms that avoid the practices of corruption, because I believe that right now is the focus we have to place. That is why we will put forward the relevant motion, which will put forward a number of proposals in this regard. But allow me to tell you or tell you that we, even if we have advanced on issues of transparency standards, are certainly skeptical of certain compliance with transparency or with measures that are precisely aimed at combating corruption and fraud at least in the area of the autonomic public sector. In the Committee itself, we have had a very taxing response by the Government of Greece that they were not prepared to comply with one of the small sections of the Transparency Act as it was to report on the degree of compliance precisely with the parliamentary agreements taken in this House, with regard, at least, to the periods of sessions covered since the entry into force of the Transparency Act 2016. We cannot admit that the answer of the German Government is that no information will be given on the degree of compliance of the agreements taken in this House, when it is specifically established in the law itself. It seems to me that it is unacceptable, I hope that they will correct it as soon as they can and that we will have the opportunity to debate this again in Commission 1st. When we present it in this House, and we will insist on this question of establishing real systems of integral protection for people who can file complaints in cases of corruption, the response was also absolutely negative to establish this mechanism, when there are already autonomous communities that have started this work as Balearics, as Valencia or as Castela-Leon, although we also take into account that today in Congress a comprehensive anti-corruption bill is being processed. Let us hope that the People's Party in Madrid has nothing to say, even if it has to contribute, precisely to establish this mechanism that has a comparison in other areas, as we said on the basis of that initiative. I believe that this is an absolutely important matter: to establish mechanisms that guarantee the full protection of the people who report. Because as we see in these cases of corruption, in the Lezo case and in so many other cases, all these issues are born from complaints. We must ensure that both employees and public authorities, employees, authorities or private directors have absolutely guaranteed their chances of, without being subject to other types of action, filing the necessary complaints when they observe any alleged possible corruption or fraud. That's why we have to insist on this. There are other issues also in which we note that there is no such effective commitment, beyond the purely formal transparency, when we have also come to demand that, for example, in the communication of the Council's weekly agreements, there be effective access to literary documents. Or just as it did when you didn't realize it, even if the agreements were made and you were aware of Parliament, but you didn't realize the Council's agreements in your weekly communications, the use of unclassified budget programmes and functions. Another common practice which we denounce, and which, apart from denouncing, logically we want to work so that this does not continue to be so, is precisely the wasteful use of the laws of measures which have been approved annually by Mr Feijóo's governments. Many laws are changing that nothing or little has to do with the accounts they should be linked to. And what about the lack of regulation in Galicia — and we will also insist — of interest groups, lobby groups, both within the House and within the sphere of executive power.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u124	Yes, I'm done right now, President. It is important to have an impact on this matter. Questions like the conglomerate, and I don't want any other drifts, but it must be clear that conglomerates like Mr. Villar Mir are a matter that must be well channeled through regulations that try to control and regulate actions of interest groups. Other issues that we have commented on yesterday, and these days, are important so that there are no further situations we don't want. I was talking yesterday about the bidding for the cleaning services of the administrative buildings.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u125	Finish, please, finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u126	It can't be that pemmes are out of that contest. Or the situation of the tender...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u127	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u128	...of ambulance concessions. Please, we respect the competition rules, because we can't afford...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u129	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u130	...that the new decree of tourist dwellings has...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u131	Mr. Villoslada, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u132	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u133	You have the floor to reply to the Vice President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villoslada, I am truly glad to say that the rankings are what they are, on the line a little of what I said. I mean, they're important, but they're what they are, and sometimes they're questionable. I'm saying that because of the ranking we're talking about, we could talk about the position you left us in. We've come up with several posts, so we're glad and we're not going to compare where we're from, because what matters is to keep moving forward. If we were like this, in that ranking, it's true that now, having more than 90 points over 100, we've surpassed some autonomous communities. But we have made very important progress, nothing more to come, with regard to the inherited situation. And I'm sure they were trying to do their best. I'm saying they made the law in 2006, and I think it's something remarkable. The degree of compliance, I say, is a different thing, and, above all, determinations that are not contained and that are now contained. Look, I could tell you that the law in 2006 wasn't published, and we asked for it. But there was no obligation to publish, and therefore it was not published. And sensitive things, we're now talking about hiring and preventing corruption. We asked someone who knew the composition of the tables, who helps, who are the people responsible for making the technical assessments and, therefore, making the proposals for adjudication. We wanted to know that and you said no. Now it's mandatory and it's posted. You mean they were trying to hide something? Man, I understand not. But we asked for it and you said no. We also said that that law made the relationship of minor contracts, the thousands and thousands and thousands of minor contracts that you have to administer with the volume of recruitment of the Galician Union; that they appeared in addition to systematized and that they were easy to access. They said no. We asked them many times and they said no. Now get on and they're very easy to consult because there's nothing to hide. You mean when you said it wasn't because you were interested that you didn't know that? I want to think no, but we asked him and you said no, and they didn't reflect him in that law. We also ask them to provide more detailed information on the incompatibilities of the incoming high office. Where they come from. Not only where they go when they stop being public officials, but also where they come from. We asked him. Businesses they worked on in the previous two years. Control, of course, then, of those places where they go, on the subject of incompatibility. We've asked them for much stricter regulation and they haven't reflected it in the law of 2006. You mean they meant you didn't know about anyone's activity? I suppose not, but we asked them and you didn't. The texts of the conventions have also been published with their explanatory memories. We asked for it many times and they said no. Now it's done. I mean, little by little, we're all going to understand that we have to be very transparent, and perhaps that in 2006 you didn't give any importance, now they give it a lot, and I'm glad they give it to you, because we're doing it. Now, don't link the data you refused to give, the very sensitive data, the practices that nothing has to do with our intention or with what we do. Legislative plans, too. You were talking about Parliament's activity. I believe it is essential that the Government make public as a commitment and an agreement, by virtue of a board of the Board, which I believe we did, which was not done before, of those texts which it intends to send to the House. I think this is very important. I think you should know. And I think from the point of view of strategic planning, and even political control, is fundamental. We did, and you didn't. He made a direct reference to a Government statement in Commission 1a. I want to clear it up. In fact, last year's Transparency Act, what it requires is to make an annual publication. So it will be done at the end of this year, the first year of vigil, an annual publication of the degree of compliance with parliamentary agreements. I can point out that, as far as last year is concerned, with all the specifics that were made by holding an election call, it's 69%. But the publication and the legal obligation to publish it, which, of course, the Government will comply, will be made in respect of this year 2017. And so will we all, Mr. Villoslada. He had no doubt that with those 80 indicators that analyzed International Transparency; those over 50 parameters; those more than 50 data that neither the Law of 2006 nor the State Transparency Law obliged them to give, but that, in contrast, it obliges the Autonomic Law of Transparency approved last year, and that, of course, the Board of Galicia gives, what it is attempting to do with this is to regain citizens' confidence in public activity, of course to establish the means to fight, especially on a preventive basis, against corruption where we belong, and, little by little, to look at it. That's what the German Government is doing. I believe that the contributions which opposition groups can make in Commission 1st, with regard to the agreement they have taken today, will be very valuable. Let us be consistent and let us not say — what we previously refused to give and this government gives — that this government is less transparent or tries to hide things that, of course, it does not try to hide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u135	Thank you very much, Vice President. We moved on to the next interpellation. Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in order to recover employment in the automotive sector and its components
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u136	Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor. Within the initiatives presented in this plenary on labour policies, in fact the week before 1 May, the En Marea Parliamentary Group met with trade unions in the Vigo automotive sector over the past few weeks and we were moved to a great deal of concern about the relocation of the sector to the north of Portugal. The symptoms are as follows. Since 2010, no new foreign investment in the automotive component industry has taken place in Galicia. This led to the loss of 2,000 jobs in the sector. In the meantime, northern Portugal received more than 739 million euros in 2015 and 2016 alone, which led to the creation of 5,800 jobs. This would have to add the 250 million euros of investments, also in northern Portugal, planned for the development of the components of the autonomous car. Last March, the Regional Competitiveness Report developed by the Council of Europe was published. Among the other indicators of competitiveness that leave us in very bad place, we can highlight two. The rate of business sophistication, where we occupy 209 out of 275 regions of Europe and 11 in Spain, must also be stressed. And the innovation index, where we occupy 196, also from 275 regions, and eighth in Spain. This is a tri-annual report, which makes a lot of indicators, the European Commission. It is a maximum guarantee report that is used throughout the regions of Europe to develop their policies of all kinds, especially those relating to innovation. Our car component industry is very strong, but it's visionary that it has a very serious problem, explained by the symptoms mentioned above. The challenge we have ahead is absolutely titanic, since, in addition to the above mentioned, we have an even greater threat, which the sector in the rest of Spain foresees a growth for the next very large years. But we have a very important added threat, which is to have, 25 kilometers from the assembler, a competition with much lower labour costs and prices and availability of much more advantageous industrial soil. The challenge is formidable, so we're not going to be irresponsible and we're not going to come here with magic solutions. The solution will also be very complex, but you have to get to work on it immediately. The path to reaching a solution makes it essential to recognize the symptoms and, from then on, develop a correct diagnosis drawn from reality, and not close in propaganda and create virtual worlds, as we are accustomed to this whole and, above all, in the committees of work in the Committee on Industry, Energy, Economics, Trade and Tourism. Well, this doesn't seem to be enough. I repeat that it must be based on reality. We see that, for example, last March, the Counsellor highlighted the importance of technologies, the new conception of Industry 4.0, in statements I think he made in Madrid, and he set an example of automotive, which in Galicia acts as a tractor in this process of transition to a more technological industry. In this sense, he referred to the agenda of Galicia Industry 4.0, which he has already achieved — the adviser said — to mobilise 342 million euros, create 11,500 new industrial jobs, and has a budget up to 2018 of 175 million euros. The truth is, this whole thing doesn't match either INE or social security data. It seems that jobs are created by infuse science, against all statistics and all independent reports, such as what I have just mentioned in the European Commission. And it also seems that by putting 4.0 behind any initiative this one is already of excellence. No, what needs to be put is millions of euros really in the budgets, and, above all, then execute them. In recent years, for example, in the wake of innovation, more than 200 million euros have been left unimplemented in innovation policies, and you know that, is referred to in all reports submitted by the Government itself to this House. This is as if a doctor finds a liver problem to a very strong person and then the family tells him the size of the biceps of the affected person, not the real problem he has. Actually, that person is still strong, but he has a problem that needs to be solved. The Greek component industry is very strong, indeed, but it has a problem that we have to analyze, diagnose and put on the treatments to guarantee you a future life with even more success. We're not as irresponsible or unconscious as to come here and tell the Counsellor and the Government about the treatment. Of course, we don't have the human, technical or economic means to which the Council counts. So what we've seen is we're talking about how the tests are doing, if they start to have a diagnosis and what are the basic lines of treatment. What we can do about the content of the motion that we present is that the solution is not going to deteriorate the working conditions and wages of the workers. Precautionary, of course, is not the solution. The solution is not to put the 4.0 whip on any initiative to turn it into excellent. That may be worth leaving very nice and theoretically innovative consulting or academic studies, but it doesn't solve anything if it's not accompanied by realistic and well-funded plans. What leads to the solution is to talk, for example, of 0.89%, which is investment in innovation in Galicia, against about 2% of the most advanced autonomy in the Spanish State, which points far better at the regional competitiveness index of the European Commission. This index is what Galicia would have to reach before even what is planned, because the situation in this sector — as we see it — is very worrying. That would require urgent changes in the budgets. That would be one of the solutions to be made, urgent treatment, especially for this sector; and to provide at least EUR 100 million more for innovation. What solves is running the R & D+i budgets, which, as we have already said, have been leaving around 25% without spending, and many other things that I'm sure you, Counselor, already know much better than I do, because they have a lot more means behind their work to develop it. That's why we reiterate the above statement in this interpellation: What are you doing to analyze the problem? Do you have a diagnosis? What is the treatment or path to develop it? It may be necessary to invest not only in process innovation to make them more productive and competitive, which is what is most prevalent in that line called Industry 4.0, but also to invest in the development of new products with higher added value, which can bear far higher labour costs, as is happening in Germany, which with labor costs 100 percent above our component industry, instead continue to grow in very high ratios, despite having also next to Czechia, Slovenia or Slovakia, but its strategy was to turn to products of much higher added value. But all this about going to products of much greater technological value and added value involves investing much more in basic innovation, which is not being done. Essentially, investment in production process optimization innovation is being made. In addition, you have to spend a lot of money on it, because — as we all know — its success is much lower. All this in the path of an advanced industry, a concept that seems to us much more complete, transversal and circular than the purely technological of Industry 4.0. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, thank you very much for your interpellation. I have listened carefully to his intervention, but I see that En Marea's speech is obvious to many realities, and I'm going to give you three concrete examples. You're talking about work. Look, the employment in the Welsh automotive industry is growing. Specifically, and I'm referring to the data given by the sector itself — I think it would be good that, as it has meetings with the unions, it also meets with the sector — since 2012 there are 1,350 new jobs in Galicia, thus reaching 20,000 direct jobs. Mr. Casal, there are more people working in the automotive industry in Galicia than in 2009, that's the reality of the industry. I insist, it's not government data, it's data provided by the sector itself. Secondly, Mr. Casal, there is no company in Galicia that has closed to transfer its production to Portugal. It's not right to talk in Galicia about relocation. It's not right, that's reality. I understand perfectly well that In Marea doesn't want to talk about internationalization, probably because it has a more localist and protectionist view of the economy, but we do talk about internationalization. I believe that the effort being made by the German automotive industry to internationalize is giving it more opportunities, and I think it is a good thing that our companies are getting internationalized without giving up their investment in our country. It was a billion euros in the sector's investments in the last five years, Mr. Casal, data provided by the sector itself; a billion euros in investment by the automotive sector in Galicia over the last five years. Thirdly, the third reality you are obliging refers to data from the Regional Index published by the European Commission, while at the same time comparing it with Portugal. Tell this House that Galicia is better positioned than the North of Portugal in that regional index published by the European Commission. I mean, Galicia is more competitive from the point of view of efficiency, from the point of view of innovation, than northern Portugal. And that's because, in fact, the automotive sector is doing its job and is developing strategic plans, and logically so the Galician Union is also developing its Smart Specialization Strategy and is developing its Galicia Industry 4.0 Agenda. So the automotive sector to be more competitive than northern Portugal is investing in talent, investing in innovation and improving its position. I believe that, rather than questioning the commitment of the German automotive sector, I believe that you have a great opportunity to congratulate the automotive sector in Galicia. And you have a great opportunity, first of all, because it's a sector that was the first to recover from the economic crisis and create jobs. And I think it would also be good to congratulate you on getting key future projects like the two new PSA models, which will allow an increase in the billing of companies installed in Galicia by a minimum of 6% and which will guarantee employment for the next ten years. This is a reality that you're obvious in that diagnosis. I think that in order to make a good diagnosis, we have to start with an analysis of the whole of reality, and these achievements, Your Honor, I'm not a coincidence, I can assure you, I'm the result of a strategy of cooperation. We're working together with the Administration, companies, clusters and knowledge centers to consolidate what we have, but also to grow and continue to attract investments that complete the value chain. So there's a clear strategy, first, to try to anticipate new scenarios. And secondly, it also enhances the experience and the ability to compete that our automotive industry has. That strategy that you ask me about three aspects that we understand are fundamental, are the aspects in which we are working, and in which we understand that the automotive industry to be competitive must continue to deepen. I'm talking about innovation, I'm talking about Industry 4.0, and I'm also talking about training, three aspects -- as I said -- key to the automotive sector strategy. Between 2015 and 2016, the automotive sector invested in R+D+i by 50% more than in previous years and invested in R+D+i by 110 million euros; given that I think also relevant when it comes to gambling for innovation and Industry 4.0. An investment that is not only developing Citroën, but the most important thing is that it is developing the entire component industry through the different projects in innovation and technology. When you tell me about the reality of the sector, it talks about statistics. I'm talking about realities, I think it's also good for that diagnosis. I think In Marea should be congratulated because the first autonomous car that develops on the Spanish roads came out of Vigo. And he left Vigo, Your Honor, thanks to a joint unit where Citroën, the CTAG and the Galician Innovation Agency collaborated. I think that's a reality. I think if you want to know the reality of the automotive industry, you don't have to go to the National Institute of Statistics, you can read the nearest Official Journal of Galicia. And in the Official Journal of Galicia, you can see how there are eight joint innovation units that are developing projects amounting to EUR 22 million in innovation. I'm talking to you about Citroën, I'm talking to you about the Copo Group, BorgWarner Group, Visa Group, GKN or MGI, so I'm talking about R+D+i realities. I'm also talking to you, Mr. Casal, about 21 innovation projects that we're developing for projects linked to Logistics 4.0, automotive systems and light multilateral structures through programs in the Eid of Connecta Peme. And I'm also talking about the pilot project that Ceaga is developing in the vanguard, in the development of the future factory, and that includes concrete projects linked to the 3D artificial vision and also interconnected plants, able to take advantage of all the information that is developed through the Big Data. And I'm talking to him about too many realities. I'm telling you about Business Factory Auto, where there are ten specific projects that are being developed by innovative companies. Finally, I'm telling you of a reality: that Galicia is innovating, that Galicia is at the forefront of innovation in the automotive sector, thanks to the drive and support of the Administration through the various business innovation programmes. That bet must also be developed — as I told you — through training and must be developed by offering companies greater advantages to produce from Galicia. So it means continuing to bet on industrial soil policy as well. He knows that we are competing with bonuses of between 30% and 50% in the business parks of the Galician Union, and we want to incorporate this investment-gathering policy into the municipalities. We have offered to the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, precisely, to establish a joint strategy so that we can offer greater administrative advantages and also, logically, greater tax benefits. And we are developing, as you know, a law to promote entrepreneurship so that we can simplify and speed up administrative procedures as well. Finally, Your Honor, there's a reality that you're obvious when you approach the automotive sector. I think we should get closer to that reality to establish a proper diagnosis, and of course, from Galicia we have clear that the future of the automotive sector goes through innovation, goes through Industry 4.0 and, therefore, goes through internationalization, and by leaving aside the policy that you think you want to bring to this Parliament, focused on localism and focused on protectionism, because, unfortunately, that would not bring any kind of benefit to the automotive sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. You have the floor, in the replica shift, Mr. Casal Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the truth is, I am now much more worried. I thought you were going to talk about the symptoms, that you were going to talk about the diagnosis, that you were going to talk about the treatment, but no, it's all wonderful. You take the hood off, you want to toast me, and you're going to confuse this Parliament by talking about the automotive industry. But I wasn't talking about the automotive industry, I was talking about the policies of the German Government about the automotive industry, which is a little different. I know that for you Galicia and the People's Party Government is the same. No, it's not the same. And besides talking to the unions, we talked to a lot of very concerned businessmen. They're worried. You're right that you can't strictly call relocation when you don't close a factory, but to see how you call it that all the new factories open up in northern Portugal. We can't call it relocation, otherwise we can call it a new location outside Galicia. You call it what you want, but the reality is that. And I'm also very worried because the truth is I don't know where you get the data. I have those of the Galego Institute of Statistics and those of the National Institute of Statistics. Affiliation to Social Security in 2009 in the car sector: 16,304 jobs. Affiliation to Social Security last month of 2017: 13,666 people; more than 2,600 less than eight years ago. We can avoid this, we can fool ourselves, we can talk about the biceps, we can talk about the strength of the sector, that it has a very strong biceps, and we can't talk about what the problem it has. This problem is obvious and everyone knows it and recognizes it. Of course we are in favour of internationalization. I know you come with the mantras that The Tides are protectionists, that look at the environment, but that has nothing to do with reality, The Tides are a group of people from the most transversal, the most formed, the most prepared, and that we are truly preparing to govern and analyze reality, not the virtual reality that you are striving to bring permanently. Of course we're proud of the autonomous vehicle, of course we're proud! What we're not proud of is that most of the components of the autonomous vehicle will be produced in northern Portugal. It is true that the competitiveness index of northern Portugal is lower than that of Galicia. Of course! Obviously, obviously! Because neither the GDP of the Spanish State has anything to do with the GDP of Portugal. And you know that in competitiveness indices, in addition to innovation issues, influence the volume of the market and many other indices in which, of course, we are far above, within a state that has a GDP that is enormously higher than Portugal. But that doesn't mean that reality is what it is. The reality is that in Portugal, over the past two years, 5,800 jobs have been created in this sector and not in Galicia. That's the reality. We can elude her, we can say that everything is wonderful and not doing anything, and talk about 4.0 and plus 4.0. No, what we're talking about is money, how much we're going to invest in, what concrete lines you're going to invest in, what results are going to be, what controls are going to be. In short, what is going to be that treatment that will prevent us from being here within three years, when the legislation is over, and we have to regret that you wanted to be blind to an obvious situation for everyone and that we have no solution to. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. He's got the replication of Mr. Economy, Employment and Industry Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, I appreciate your planning to develop a joint diagnosis, but I'm surprised they don't have any proposals. That's a surprise to me, that you don't have any kind of proposal for the automotive sector, which is what you just said in your intervention. In any case, I understand your policy is focused on criticizing everything and everyone. That's the policy you're developing, and that's what you're doing. They know how to do it very well. Surely your concern for the automotive sector comes with a bad conscience, too. I understand perfectly that In Marea has a bad conscience because he voted against the amendment of the Law of the ground which allowed precisely that Citroën today can develop the van here in Galicia effectively, Mr. Sánchez has very bad conscience. [[Murmurs.]] It's clear, it's clear!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u144	Mr. Sánchez, I ask you to listen. I ask Members to listen to the person who is talking. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, man, finish the plenary. Here we have to listen to everything. Now you're talking about a Member, who is also a counselor, and I ask you to listen to the explanations that are being made, like it or not. You'll have time to replicate them in your speeches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u145	Therefore, AGE voted against the amendment of the Land Law which allowed the expansion of PSA-Citroën in Vigo, and which remains in the Official Journal that would vote against again. That's good to be transferred to him when they meet with the sector. If that was the case, the reality is that the van could not be built in Vigo. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u146	Excuse me, Mr. Count. Excuse me a moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u147	It's good that you insist on that position, and it's good that Vigo too would know that En Marea would vote again against that Citroën could have the facilities to develop the new van project. [[Applause]] Look, you question constantly, and you even want more money in innovation. But, on the other hand, you do what you're doing is constantly questioning all the aid that is being transferred to the automotive companies in Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You should read the Official Journal of Galicia. Even your group, Mr. Casal, has come to say, and has not come to deny, that Vigo is kidnapped by Citroën. That's a sentence from his group: that Vigo is kidnapped by Citroën, not to mention that Galicia is kidnapped by Citroën. That's the reality of En Marea when we talk about the automotive sector. I told them about specific realities, but they don't want to see it that way. When I talk here about joint innovation and investment units of 22 million euros, the government has nothing to do, but, yes, the call is from the Galician Innovation Agency and is published in the Official Journal of Galicia. When I talk to them about Connecta Peme, about business innovation, you don't want to understand that's a call from the Galician Council. And when I tell you about the Business Factory, the Automotion and the Development of Innovation Projects, they don't want to accept that this is innovation policy and industry policy 4.0 of the Galician Union. And when I talk to you about the investment order of Industry 4.0, which is an order of 60 million euros deeply lost, in which you can also participate in the automotive sectors, you don't want to recognize that there's an innovation policy and an industrial policy of the Galician Union. Thus, Mr. Casal, it is very difficult not only to establish a diagnosis, but to reach an agreement on possible solutions that can be developed for the sector. We're going to keep working and we're going to continue investing and increasing innovation assumptions. By the way, you know that the Galician Innovation Agency has a budget of 60 million euros. If you tell me we're not running 200, you're saying we've been running innovation policies for four years. I don't think you know the real data from the Galician Innovation Agency, the innovation bet on the Galician Union, and you've probably been passed the data on the execution of the Bipartite technology funds, which didn't run the technology funds, remember? He's probably been through that data. But the reality is that we are developing an innovation policy and we are supporting the sector. Indeed, we will support — and I believe your group should do so too — the III Cluster Competitiveness Plan which developed the sector itself, with this vision of the year 2025. That's why in the next few years we will continue to bet on the automotive sector; we will continue to support the cluster by boosting Industry 4.0; establishing a map of needs, skills and innovation together with the sector; also developing an energy efficiency program; developing a specific training plan; stimulating new projects so that they can complete value chains; and diversifying also towards new sectors and new manufacturers. Look, Mr. Casal, this government knows perfectly well that the automotive sector needs to be differentiated and internationalized through innovation. This government knows that the low cost, of course, is not a strategy for the future, which is what you come to ask me here. You know the government that we need the biggest investment facility, so we want to develop a business implementation law that I hope your group can support. That's why we're trying to establish a joint strategy, along with the municipalities, to facilitate administrative simplification and municipal taxation. The Government knows that competitiveness is the element that can enable the future of the automotive sector. In these parameters is where we are, and I hope that, about a realistic diagnosis that we can do, in Marea can also make some proposals, because you haven't made any proposals today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u148	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to subsidies and aid to local authorities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u149	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. Counsellor, as you well know, municipal funding remains one of the pending tasks after the development of the State of Autonomy. The councils have for years assumed their own and inappropriate competences, lacking the necessary funding by the State and by the Autonomous Community to be able to exercise these powers, and on many occasions the will of other administrations to decide on which the budget priorities of the municipalities themselves should be, and the Local Cooperation Fund is the most important agreement we have today, but it consists only of 119 million euros for 313 municipalities. You, the Government of Galicia, the Government of the People's Party, have none of the Greek councils in these two laws: they did not convene the Galician Local Cooperation Commission for seven years; they did not assume the costs of their competences; and they did not fulfil the agreements signed in the local Covenant in eight years. But, look, you miss the municipalities, the mayors, the mayors, the presidents and the president of the parliament, and, therefore, you miss all the neighbors and the neighbours of Galicia. [[Applause]] Once you have convened the Galician Local Cooperation Commission, after seven years, a forum in which all matters affecting municipalism must be dealt with and agreed upon, the President of the Galician Council shall make an announcement that very morning, without having spoken to the Town Councils in advance, that he would meet that afternoon and cancel out the total protagonistism that deserves the development of the said Commission, after seven years. But for even more luck, and taking into account the weak economic situation of our local authorities, there is no better announcement than saying that the municipalities must give up tax collection like the IBI so that companies can install themselves in their business parks and, in addition, that the Galician Union will compensate them in some way. I ask him, do you think the public officials of our municipalities, mayors and mayors are fools? Do you think the municipalities can give up the most important income they have, which is the IBI, which is to develop their skills? Do you really believe that some companies stop opening or setting up in an IBI business park that they have to pay for? Do I really think so? How do you plan to compensate the municipalities according to the announcement of the president of the board? So what happened to the IAE or how do you distribute the grants, discreetly and for those you decide what should be benefited? If such a good measure seems to you, Counsellor, please transfer to the President of the Board that you are, through the Autonomous Community, those who encourage companies to settle in our country. And that is what will be an important measure in the search for work, economic growth and population growth, but it doesn't transfer that to the municipalities. They can't pretend to continue deciding about the municipalities, to continue to protect them, that's an insult. The municipalities are democratic governments that have autonomy to exercise their powers. What they need is economic means that recognize the law but in practice they don't perceive. You do not understand that municipal autonomy is guaranteed in the Constitution, the Statute of Self-Government, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, the Law of Local Regime and the Law of Local Administration of Galicia. Socialists have on several occasions reiterated that the current system of subsidies of the Galician Union is an obsolete and cacical system, not adapted to a modern and progressive society, in which territorial rebalancing is not achieved and the basic services for all citizens are not sought, regardless of where they live. You, the People's Party, are true that you win elections, but not to rule for all, but to favor those of your own political colour, and to despise the rest of citizenship in a totally democratic country. [[Applause]] And examples we have. [[Applause]] The aid, grants or agreements and other formulas by which the Autonomous Community brings resources to the councils do not meet the objective of transparency and objectivity as set out in Law 1/2016, which in its explanatory statement says: "The mechanisms of transparency and good governance function as counterweights that guarantee the protection of citizenship from the arbitrary hypothesis of public power and the misuse of public money or property." Nor do they comply with the Law 9/2007 of Galicia grants, which devotes a chapter — I — and Article 19 to the procedures for granting; point 1: "The ordinary procedure for granting grants will be dealt with in a competitive competition scheme. For the purposes of this law, a competitive competition shall be considered the procedure by which the grant is granted through comparison of the applications submitted in order to establish a priority between them in accordance with the previously established valuation criteria." And in point 2, it says, "Regulatory bases may be exempt from the requirement to set a priority order between the applications submitted meeting the requirements laid down when, for the object and purpose of the grant, it is not necessary to make the comparison..." but you make the exceptional virtue. Mr. Counselor, I've pointed to him many times, you always do what you do, everything is towards the gallery, and then you don't do anything. And worst of all, they do for their own. That's where the different ways of ruling are evidenced, but then those agreements have to be carried out. And look, we can do — as the President of the Board pointed out this morning — in this Parliament a committee to study the fulfilment of the agreements that are being made here, as you propose to control the central government with the failure to comply with infrastructure. And I assure you, Mr. Counselor, that we took the colors out of him, I assure you. See, in the Council of which you are a advisor, on June 14, 2016 they publish an order establishing regulatory bases and convening grants in a non-competitive competition regime within the special investment plan for the improvement of infrastructure and equipment in the Greek municipalities. And do you know when they publish the concession? Ten months later, March 21, 2017. That's their way of understanding transparency. But if it was just that, we'd still shut up. It's just, look, if we do an analysis of the concessions, it's no wonder they're late in publishing, because it's a real scandal. In the province of Coruña, of 17 granted, 12 were for the People's Party; in Lugo, 14 were granted, 9 for the People's Party; Ourense, 23 were granted, 21 for the People's Party; Pontevedra, 21 were granted, 17 for the People's Party; that is, almost 80% of the aid granted with this grant order were granted to the People's Party councils. If we look at other grants, like Plan Hurbe, I can say the same thing: 30 grant grants, 29 for the People's Party. That's the transparency that you're talking about, that's the dialogue that you're proposing and that you're keeping continuously, I see. But, look, in the Transparency Act itself, there is a great deal of concern about proposing courses to bring the criteria of transparency to the entire citizenship and staff of the Administration. But I really believe that those who must attend these courses must be the Government of Galicia, because it is the first to fail to comply with transparency. The Fegamp itself has just published a document — which they will now know, because they have just developed the Galician Local Cooperation Commission, after seven years, I remind you of it — entitled "Executive Summary of the Analysis Commission for the Study and Proposal for Measures to Reform the Policy Governing Local Farms". [[Applause]] And in paragraph 3.4, on transfers by way of grants from the Galician Union, inter alia, with respect to financial autonomy and local adequacy, tend to progressively abolish subsidies from the autonomous Community's own funds to local authorities, through the gradual integration of certain subsidies into the Local Cooperation Fund, and for those subsidies that are maintained objective and consistent with local authorities for their distribution. He asks you to set up a mechanism for studying and evaluating the cost of services partially funded by transfer to Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u151	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u152	...and provided at the local level, as well as for the establishment of financing for the permanent stabilization of these services. It also tells him that the Board should assume the services of its current competence provided by local entities and partially financed by transfers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u153	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u154	I'm finishing up now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u155	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u156	And in the case of the capital transfers of the Galician Union, which are developed through specific funds through the maintenance of the EMP and the Environmental Fund and the creation of an annual infrastructure fund formed by capital transfers to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u157	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u158	And for the transfer of co-responsibility, we must provide for instruments that allow for display...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u160	...annual transfer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u161	Mrs. Rodríguez, you have a second shift...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u162	...—I'm done—totals received by the local entities of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u163	...so you can complete the information you want to provide in the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u164	...and to establish measures that balance the annual allocation received by each of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u165	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. You have the floor of the Vice-President and President's Counsellor, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, to see if I can answer the things you asked me about this constructive interpellation. But, look, starting with where you're almost finished, talking about sectarianism, I have more data for the replica, but I'm going to give you something else. In 2014, Mr. Besteiro, Deputy de Lugo — you weren't here, I suppose I would be in the Socialist Party — was what they had as a model of everything and I suppose also of distribution of grants. Province of Lugo, 64% of PP Town Councils; Congress of Lugo Conventions, 28; Conventions for PP Town Councils? 5. Money invested in agreements? 13; Letters invested in agreements by the Deputy of Lugo by Mr Besteiro and the model of socialism at that time for PP councils? 811,000 euros. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] What are you talking about, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo?, what are you talking about, please?, what are you talking about? [[Applause]] Then we can also talk about the time when you were director of local administration, because you also distributed money, and we'll see your objectivity. But, look, I'm going to try to be constructive, is that this data wasn't going to get them out — I had to take note now — because I thought we were going to be serious about cooperation between the municipalities and the board of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] I'm starting to doubt that you were told there was a meeting of the Galician Local Cooperation Commission last Thursday. I begin with a sincere doubt that he contains it, or that they're interested in telling him, because really if he comes here saying the things he's saying, because he's actually contradicting those from his party and from the local administration in general... because you spoke on behalf of all the municipalities: all the municipalities are humiliated by the Unity of Galicia, all of them! All the municipalities are nowhere by the Galician Union, all of them! All the municipalities are missing out on that, everyone! You speak in everyone's name! Of course, then comes the president of the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, who also represents all the municipalities, and says, "The meeting"—the one you didn't find out about, didn't tell him that there was—it was okay. I'm seeing that we're moving forward on certain issues. Yesterday's meeting and the tone with which it was held -- quite different from what you used here -- "I find it very interesting; of course, we looked forward to it." This is the president of the Town Councils, and then you come to say that we deny them, that we miss them and humiliate them. [[Applause]] I'm telling you something else: look, it was approved at the board of directors that same morning, a very important measure that would have to be communicated to the councils afterwards. But, of course, it's not smoke, it's that you're very used to smoking; but when things are approved to execute them, you first have to approve them and then tell them where to count them, which is in the Galician Local Cooperation Commission. There, in that forum, recently approved: this is what we want to think about. Because there's a problem, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo: you, as you have the ears of sectarianism, believe that everything goes that way, but it's not, it's not. [[Murmurs.]] What we have to do is take action. And we have a clear business relocation problem, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we want them to be in Galicia, we don't want them to leave, we want them to settle here. That is why we want, among all, measures to encourage the installation of companies here in Galicia, in our industrial polygons, in our municipalities. That's why we take these measures. Of course they are not the only measures, of course the Galician Union must also take and it is taking promotion measures, but they will also have to do so by the municipalities! But how can it be said that if the Galician Union wants companies to be set up in the municipalities that refer to promotion measures? Why do the municipalities have to do nothing? But how can you come here to say that? That's what you said! If you want companies to settle down, take care of the Galician board, this is not a matter for the municipalities. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Hey, what if there's a mayor coming now, who doesn't necessarily have to be from the People's Party, he can be, but there's also a lot of mayors who act objectively in all political parties, fortunately. [[Applause]] And you should know, because she was a concelegratist, because she was the director of the local administration. So I don't understand how you come here to say these things. What if it turns out that a mayor is coming and says, yes, I want to set up bonuses in the IBI because I'm interested in a company being set up? So, what's the matter? [[Murmurs.]] That mayor or that mayor is stupid? What's wrong? Let them humiliate themselves, do not let them forget about it, and let them not let it be the Board of Galicia that arranges the issues for them, and tell the neighbors: no, no, here if they want companies to be installed, if they take care of the Board of Galicia, we are for other things; work, jobs, activity and entrepreneurship, that's not the town halls; let them do it to the board of Galicia and let them forget about it? What's wrong? That mayor, then, how does he let you stay with what he said here? If a mayor says yes, indeed, I want to add to these incentives, I understand this policy and I go for it, I also want the Galician Union to do things, but I'm very interested in it, because employment is the first. Don't we agree with that? Is it such a secondary matter to say that only Galician Union is responsible? Asking a council to cooperate is none of them, is it humiliating? Is it lacking in respect? Do you really think so? It's just if you think that's very difficult that I can answer everything you're asking me, honestly. I'm going to try, really, but it's that, seeing what you say, seeing the tone in what you say that we don't relate to the municipalities, seeing, fortunately, that starting him as President of the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, what I suppose you're also going to bluff to say that what you want is to come to agreements, to say that what you want is to build, to say that with the Galician Union you have to move forward, logically defending each of your competences, your interests, but they're common in many cases. So you're bluffing him to say that the meetings are good and that the Galician Union is trying to collaborate. We, of course, are not going to. And there were municipalities, he's a socialist president, there are municipalities of all political colors. And, of course, I daren't speak on behalf of everyone, I dare speak on behalf of the Council of Galicia and say that we try to collaborate with them. And, therefore, the issue of clear local funding that concerns us very much, just as we are concerned about autonomous funding, and we will have to solve it — they understand it, you don't understand it, you don't want to understand it, I don't know it, but you will have to solve autonomous funding to solve local funding. Or isn't he saying that resources that now correspond to the self-sustainment are being transferred to the local farm? You'll have to reorder your skills. I fully agree that the issue of competences needs a rearrangement, but what you need now needed before, and nobody did, probably because it's a matter that has a lot of implications, of course also politics, of course also planning and strategy, but also economic. So we solve autonomic funding before we see who has to do each competition, and therefore have funding. And let's not make two administrations, and it turns out that important things aren't done by anyone or are doing them without the proper budget allocation. All of this has to be done, but it will have to be logical and knowing what money we have. That's what we're talking about at that meeting, that we all agreed on. You come here: no, let's do it now; without knowing how autonomic funding will stay, let's do it now; for if we do it or not, we'll hurt it. But that's what all mayors and mayors agree on. And you come here to say, just like he says he doesn't have to worry about a mayor of the job in his county, because he doesn't have to claim money without knowing what money we're talking about. So of course we will, and of course we will negotiate. Hey, Local Cooperation Fund. I told him again that I had the opportunity to speak in Parliament, on his own initiative: the Local Cooperation Fund was kept in the years he was going down. It's just that I love talking about the Local Cooperation Fund with someone who's been in the Bipartisan Government. When the budgets, the revenue from the Board, which is what the Local Cooperation Fund is referring to, went up, it turns out that it was much lower than it is now. We kept it, shielded it; lowering the incomes of the Galician Union, the Local Cooperation Fund was armoured. It is that if you had followed the same policy, the Local Cooperation Fund would be a much more important amount than you have fixed. So that's the way it is, it admits a few arguments. And they have a fixed amount and then the liquidations, and it turns out that it gives them less than it gave them to the Galician Union in times of crisis, when the revenues they're referred to were down. And I'm very proud to do so, honestly. It's a shame you didn't do it, because if you did it that way, the municipalities would probably have now, or at least they would have enjoyed those years of abundance of much more income. That's the fundamental thing, because here at the end we're talking about the numbers; then you can see how it's divided; but first we did the digit. And the reality is, by raising the income of the Galician board, they had the Fund much lower and they didn't go through their heads in any case to do any kind of performance in that sense. From there on, look! we've been talking about, indeed, a claim that has been made for many years and we haven't been able, I suppose, because it's a complicated matter, to establish how many grants you can get into the Fund so you won't continue to call. But there's a lot of opinions here too. There are municipalities that can co-finance and say they don't agree with that, others that say a grant is interested in getting into the global fund and others that don't. And so we haven't reached an agreement, because it's very difficult, first, for the municipalities to identify which subsidies are the subject of this negotiation and then they all agree that it is subsumed in the Fund, and that's how it is. And so, I guess that's what you're told, and if you tell me it's otherwise, they're not reporting it well. Ask me also — we will talk about that — whether all the grants will be by competitive competition. Look, I'm the vast majority. And I told you again that you also had a call where no competitive competition was established. And that doesn't mean there's no objectivity, there's always reason. Hey, come back to me with this. Indeed, we have now published the resolution of these subsidies: 62 municipalities outside, of which 42 are from the People's Party. What's wrong? Don't let them know and let them know, do they? And the ones who came into the Socialist Party? Ah! then, all the councils of the Socialist Party were warned too; instead, we did not warn the 42 of the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you realize how absurd this whole thing is? Do you realize that this is what you're talking to, objectively, is going to say, but what are you saying, what are you saying? And in the end, there are councils that come in through that system and others that don't, as I suppose they would come in when you did your summons. And so it's very serious that you make that insinuation, it's really very serious that you insinuation, and it leads me to think again about what you would be doing when you had the skills. Of course, I can tell you that this government doesn't. We'll discuss some other examples later. If you follow with example of sharing, I'll try on the second part, because I'm running out of time and I'm not going to discuss with the president how long I've set, I'm running out of time. In the second speech, I will try to answer more questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u167	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor on the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u168	Look, Counselor, we haven't ruled in Galicia for eight years. I'm sure we've done things wrong, we're sure, and we've done a lot better, but we're also sure we've done a lot, a lot better than they've done. [[Applause]] And you have an obligation to continue on the path of improvement and not always recriminalizing us... what had been done. [[Applause]] It's your obligation, eight years later, not to go back. And look, I don't mind you calling me sectarian. Sectarians have you enough in your party and sectarian is what I just taught you about 80% of the grants going to your party; that's sectarian, okay? Look, you tell me you had a meeting of the Galician Local Cooperation Commission. It's true, and the president said they moved on. Man, of course!, how could they not move forward: after seven years, summon her? That's already an advance, because they had absolutely nothing..., nothing; that's an advance, because they had nothing. [[Applause]] No municipalities for seven years, okay? And besides, I fully remember the President's words, which with the proposal announced by the President of the Board in the morning said they would study the proposal, which might be interesting. But it was the only thing he said, because he's a gentleman, and he said they were going to look at her. Analysed and sighted and contrasted with a number of mayors, it doesn't seem so right, and I'm sure that neither do you. And look, don't ever tell me that the municipalities are going to give up their jobs. Of course they don't give up, the problem is they don't have enough funding to be able to create jobs, you understand? They don't have enough funding. [[Applause]] And, among other things, the skills at work, if I'm not mistaken, they're yours. And on the other hand, I'm going to tell you one thing: if a council wants to be nice and it can do it, let it do it; we're not against it; but it comes into the political will of that council and as a policy that they want to apply and that they can apply in its county. What I think is an insult to you is that you want all the municipalities to do so, because the test took place in Galician Union. And that does seem like an insult to me, and that certainly does not seem like an insult to me. Anyway, since you're talking about local funding, which is the first and most important issue, I'm very glad, because we're registering a proposal for a local funding law. I hope they look at her with affection and let us get her out of the way, because the most necessary thing to do today is this. No, I know you're hard to approve of something that we present, but, in any case, we claim it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] No comment. And look, don't tell me, please, about the Members, okay?, don't tell me about the Members, because look, I'm going to tell you: The Crown Deputy has just drawn the unique plan for all the municipalities, which puts 74 million euros for 93 municipalities and will eventually reach 100 million, and I remind you: Local Cooperation Fund, Unity of Galicia, 119 million to 313 municipalities. And they're non-finalist funds, not finalists. "I'm not talking to you." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In the Lugo Parliament... if you like, we'll compare. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u169	Quiet, please! and listen to who is in the use of the word. Silence! And I'll take care of it. Thank you, Mr. Fermin, thank you. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u170	In the Lugo Deputy, Counsellor, if you like, we're talking about the Cacharro era, okay? But right now it's EUR 20 million for 67 municipalities. [[Applause]] And in the Pontevedra Parliament, if you like, we're talking about Louzán, and there we can also talk about sectarianism: 41.2 million euros to 61 municipalities. [[Applause]] I insist: Anyway, I'm going to ask you again what we've already put forward in writing in our interpellation. I hope you'll answer me and really be constructive, and don't come here and talk -- let's go! -- of anything. Does the Government of Greece plan to abolish part of the grant with own funds from the Autonomous Community in favour of local and integrated entities in the Local Cooperation Fund? Is the Government of Greece planning to negotiate with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces for the distribution of grants or aid convened by the Galician Union? Will the German Government establish in all calls for grants or aid for competitive competition to ensure equal access to all local entities that meet the requirements? What measures does the Government plan to establish in order to allow the simplification and axillization of the procedures to be carried out by local authorities and to ensure the perception of the financing established at the time of granting the grant or signing of the agreement? Does the Government of Greece plan to establish a joint negotiating table between the Galician Union and the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, and that it will not take another seven years to study, evaluate and establish the necessary mechanisms that develop each of the points included in the document approved by the Fegamp? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. The vice president and councillor, the public administrations and the judiciary have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u172	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, your job skills are yours. That's what a person -- I suppose -- who lives in municipalism and says, no, no, the job skills are from Galician union, don't talk to me about employment, that's not the town hall stuff, take care of yourself. [[Murmurs.]] Do you realize it's the same...? Home! indeed, the skills of employment are from you, which I know — I say, it is true — that I know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course you don't know, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, of course you don't. But, of course, he speaks again on behalf of all the municipalities and you have just announced practically that no council will add to the proposals of the Galician Board to favor the installation of entrepreneurs in the municipalities, because they were seeing him and they didn't like him. You've already spoken in the name of everyone. They're volunteers. So, I guess what's next — because I'm sure some council will do it, and I don't know what political colors, because here we're talking about objectivity, honestly, not political colors — the mayor who does it will be because he's humiliated, nonexistent and disrespected about the Council of Galicia. It is worth this effort, because the important thing is employment, although, according to Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo, it is not our business and it is the matter of the Council of Galicia. It's everyone's business, starting with neighbors and neighbors. And, therefore, we make these proposals to try to improve. I hope he doesn't laugh, really. I can see that he then shaded his position with respect to what the president of the Fegamp said. I say again that he said that it seems that what I read to him is in an interview with Radio Gaga. And it's logical, that's what happened, of course. It's just that the meeting was good and a lot of things have been done and it's moved on over the years. Now much more has to be done, and of course there is much more to be said, and I myself have said from the beginning, that these meetings which must have the Galician Local Cooperation Commission myself have another format, because meetings there were many, and, if not, the health centres that you put into the local Covenant and did not transfer the first, when there was economic goodness and we were transferring ourselves, what do you think it came from, if not from meetings of what we are talking about? Should the Galician Local Cooperation Commission now be held as a stable body and with meetings? You're right about the president of Fegamp, I give it to you, and that's going to be done, but with agreements, not just to, when you have money, say you're going to hand them over and then four years go by. The local Pact was in 2006, you came to the year 2009 and there was nothing transferred and there was a huge mess about the issue of emergencies. We've talked about it before and I'm not going to insist. You tell me you don't look at the past. That you don't look at it, that you're from Lugo, from Mr. Cacharro, speaking of the president of the Crown Deputy, but it's been in the middle of socialism. I'm going to say again: the referee also suppose that when you distribute grants, of which you come to teach lessons, which coincided with the government of the Deputy when you were in the Government of the Unity of Galicia. You want me to give you another data? Conventions, I've already given them to you before. Nominative grants, 515,000, taking any year; for PP municipalities, which were almost 80%, 76,000 euros. But, of course, he says, "I don't mind you calling me sectarian." Hey, don't call us. Because I can also give you another data: agreements in 2008 — from the Council of which you are director of Local Administration — 1.95 million in signed agreements. Do you know how many percent were for PP municipalities in 2008? What's left to give 87.4% to municipalities that were not PP, less than 13% for PP municipalities. Ah! I had to balance, there's sectarianism, I had to balance. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, when he does the PP, it's sectarianism, and when you do it, it's balance. That's the story you have in the opposition benches; in fact, that's the story you have in the opposition benches. [[Applause]] Look, it's really hard to talk seriously about funding with a person who tells me that when it's not objective, it's rebalancing, but I'm really going to try. But I keep that sentence, because from now on we could use it, it won't be the case, and I would always quote the authorized sources, which are you, I suppose your group, that doesn't disqualify it by saying that; i.e. listen: what we're doing is rebalance. But we're not, honestly. We're going to try to remain objective, we're going to try to keep negotiating with a sensible entity, led by sensible people, like Fegamp, who knows that, for example, on the subject of employment is something that they care about very directly to the municipalities, that they're waiting for sensible proposals also from the Galician Union and that we're going to move forward a little bit. We have planned a lot of measures. We are developing them within the Glaga Local Cooperation Commission. You, as an entity that doesn't recognize, because it says that we are dedicated to none of the municipalities that are represented there, probably won't find out, but I sincerely hope that, by making an effort, your fellows will be able to tell you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u173	Thank you, Vice President. We turn to item 7 on the agenda, which corresponds to questions from the Government. From Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández and five more MPs from G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the promotion and marketing contests of the tourism sector in which Galicia will participate from February to the end of 2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u174	Whenever you like, Mrs. Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President, last year 2016 was the fourth consecutive year in which Galicia recorded substantial improvements in all tourist data. One more year Galicia reaches historic peaks both on travelers staying, increasing by more than 7%, thus reaching 5 million tourists, a historical figure for Galicia, as well as on overnights, in which over 10 million have been reached. We must emphasize that the weight of international tourism is important, because it is the tourist who spends the most; it has exceeded 28%, and we are talking about another record number. But we've already come in 2015 with other record numbers, increasing this year with respect to 2014 the levels of travellers by 5.8% and the overnights by 7.2%. So we're talking about a strategic sector of our economy, where more and more tourism has a more relevant weight, exceeding 11% and 12% of employment. This Holy Week that has just passed hopes that 2017 will be another record year, with new figures that will again be historical peaks, also with respect to profitability, a data that is not ballad. There's no more to look at the press headlines this Holy Week: Tourist collapsing in Galicia, Galicia as if it were August. In the province of Ourense the hotels exceeded 75% of occupation and in the city 98%. Galicia prepares for a May bridge like that of Holy Week. Visits to Galicia's heritage increased by 40% this Holy Week, reaching the 70,000 visitors. The poll of the Galician Tourism Cluster, a priori and a posteriori, reflects that the final occupation has surpassed a lot of optimistic forecasts of occupation they had. It is a virtually full occupation in all destinations in Galicia, in all categories, though it is true that the highest category, the greatest occupation. And this is in a context of rising rates, regardless of the actual increase in the season itself, high-time. The hotel owners themselves are talking about an increase in tourist and day spending, so we're talking about Galicia getting closer and closer to more quality tourists. I think, Mr. Vice-President, that this shouldn't be the fruit of Podemos' "best seafood" tourism hashtag, but Galicia has an excellent price-quality relationship in all gastronomic, tourist products, and we don't deserve contempt for the work of our fellows and our mariners to get the best seafood in the world; we have a very good relationship, but we don't have a very cheap seafood; of course, ordinary people can't eat it every day or every month. These results are better fruit from the good way to make the Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u176	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u177	...of its strategic roadmap and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u178	Quiet, please. Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u179	...the promotion of tourism. And this is 2017. Where will this tourist promotion be going this year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, Mrs. Romero, indeed, we bet on another kind of promotion and probably that's why, probably not, I'm sure that's why they're getting another kind of good results. It's going to be a lot of promotion outside, actually, because what we're interested in is that people come from outside and but people who are able to enjoy our land here, enjoy everything we can offer them, and that they also spend money and leave economic resources. So you're going out at 46 sectoral fairs, professional meetings, which are five more than last year, which has already been remarkable the figure, but seeing the results around here you have to persevere. In total, there are 33 international and 13 national contests. I'm going to tell you the most important: that of Fitur, if we've celebrated, we've already been, the Berlin Fair, the London Fair, which will take place in November. I insist, by saying the most important: the Jata Fair (in Tokyo), another in Montreal, Canada, in October, another in Brazil and, lastly, in December, one in China. As you see, these are destinations in principle with potential for the people that are there, where we do the promotion, come here and then meet those requirements that we say have purchasing potential, so that you can really develop not only the number of visitors, but that quality tourism, that tourism with purchasing capacity that we are also looking for. At the national level in all the important tourist disputes that are organised in Spain will, of course, have the presence of Junta de Galicia. I've already told you: Fitur has already celebrated, he has also celebrated a fight in Pamplona and we've been in San Sebastian too, there's one now in Barcelona and we'll also participate in November in Valladolid. I'm telling you, in the end, the intention is to make a planned promotion, a promotion in places where it really is effective, where it serves to bring visitors, especially new visitors, apart from naturally keeping those who wish to repeat. And the idea is to capture people into their original destinations, and then receive them here with potential, so that they come with a significant number and a quality tourism. We will continue to promote, of course, our best resources. I believe that the treasure it holds, from all viewpoints, but in view of tourism, the Way of Santiago must continue to promote it, in all its fields: tourism, health, nautical tourism, cycling, gastronomy, meeting tourism. That's why we're going to have a lot of impact and a part of that promotion strategy in the places that I told you is going to go around, and at the end, about the data that were recorded last year, 2016, almost 5 million travellers, 10 million overnights, I don't think it's adventurous -- you have to work, of course, you have to try to do things right, as if you're doing, I think -- say that these figures, which seemed unthinkable not long ago, if you can get over this same year 2017, and from here on a barrier to top every year. As hard as it looks, I think it's possible if things do well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u182	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u183	We are undoubtedly living a unique moment in tourism in Galicia and obviously, out of play, is the fruit of making the Government, the good tourism strategy in Galicia and, of course, of good policies in tourism promotion, as you just realized, because tourism promotion is essential to give us knowledge of the rest of the world and because we have a good product, an excellent price-quality relationship, and we have to be able to market it. The new Galician tourism strategy for 2020 has just been approved at the Council of the Union, to continue working, together with the sector and other administrations, for the sector itself, to solve the evasive, to prepare us for the arrival of the high-speed train, to prepare us for the next Year 2021, but above all to consolidate our community as a differentiated, sustainable, competitive and adapted destination for market changes. So, Vice-President, what role will marketing play in this new Tourism Strategy by 2020?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u185	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, very important, Mrs. Romero. What's called in the argot of the sector is receptive tourism, especially travel agencies, which are the ones that have to channel everything you can offer to get these potential customers across all these parts of the world and which also have an important part in the promotion that goes beyond Galicia, will be especially involved. You've been working on it and now on your development in this strategy, which is already underway, from 2017 to 2020. Continue to improve the tourist offices, the attention given, those information points, many times the entry points to access all our resources, continue to focus a lot. I think it's fundamental, in addition, in a world as competitive as tourism and in a world as global that we aspire to capture visitors, everything that has to do with new technologies and the immense possibilities they offer in the field of tourism. And in the end the results will have to come, just as they came this Holy Week. They know that the data, fortunately — I think that we all play a lot and all benefit from it — this Holy Week is very good, frankly good, rocking almost 100% occupations in some destinations. It's true that in very touristics already by themselves, but in the Grove, in Cambados, 100%, in Lugo too, and in many other places they were in very high numbers, more than 80%; we speak of the Sacred Ribeira, Santiago de Compostela, Sanxenxo, about 90% in many cases. This has to be kept, you have to try not only on very marked dates, as it can be for the summer, for the Holy Week; now also on the bridge of May we have another opportunity to pick up all national tourism and, of course, that's what we're going to apply. He had already said before that the Way of Santiago remains a treasure that we must care for to preserve it and to magnify it, so as not to lose its essence, to remain attractive for many reasons, but I think that I think that from Monday to Sunday 10,000 pilgrims arrived to Santiago — of registered pilgrims I am speaking — and that more than 6,000 had done so in just three days, those who went from Thursday to Sunday speak well that things are also doing well here, but that more than 6,000 can still be done better. So -- I'm telling you -- we'll work a lot with the receptive sector, we'll work a lot on this long-term strategy, as if we should do things. They were already in the long run -- you've been talking about number of years -- the previous strategies, and what's right is they're influencing a lot of factors, but what they showed is that we're still going up. The figures we now handle and, above all, those we aspire to — I insist — seemed unthinkable, unreachable, absolutely utopian a few years ago. It was said at that time that, if things were done well, they were feasible. They're done. We will now try to aspire to things that seem very difficult and I am sure that, if things do well, in 2020 we will say they are a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u186	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the exclusion of Welsh peas due to the drafting of the conditions of the invitation to tender for the adjudication of the cleaning service of the administrative buildings dependent on the Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u187	Whenever you like, Mr. Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u188	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Vice-President, on January 25, 2017, the Presidency Council agreed to a macro-competition for cleaning facilities dependent on the Galician Union. The form of drafting of contracts made it possible for only four large companies, all of them outside Galicia, to compete. The result of this competition was, therefore, the expulsion of the administrative recruitment of all companies in the sector that so far were acting, small and medium-sized companies based in taxation in our country and which generate all their jobs here. Under the excuse of centralization in recruitment and arguments of economies of scale, which produce more stringent savings for our administration, the drafting of bonds is determining the impossibility of access of pemmes to strategic public procurement by the Galician Union and therefore the Greek Public Administration. We think this generates positive economies, as there are several effects, several shades that benefit our country and our economy. First of all, these companies, which have tax offices in Galicia, generate wealth in our country and pay their taxes in the autonomous community. Secondly, they employ workers in the country, not only in relation to the workers and the workers in whom there is an obligation to subrogate, but because all managerial positions and supervisory frameworks are also hired from the country itself. The provision of services that these companies did within the autonomous community in relation to other companies that provided them with their own cleaning products and did so, and that with these adjudicate companies will never happen, gives us the opportunity to believe that the way of hiring affects both employment in our country and the generation of positive flows to our economy. Finally, the method of hiring chosen by the Galician Union impoverishs our country, as long as that adjudication leaves out small and medium-sized enterprises, ceases to tax here, stops working here, stops providing services here. The most serious of this situation, in our opinion, is that even the legislation of Greece, Law 14/2013, Article 29, which provides for the promotion of the recruitment of small and medium-sized enterprises, and even Community directives, such as the 2014/24 of the European Union, which are in response to the fact that pemes constituted 98% of the European Union's productive fabric and hired less than 31% of the services of public procurement. In this respect, we wanted to ask you a number of questions, or a question. The question that closes the system would be: what interest does the Government have, or why does it decide that strategic public procurement is left out of our country, in this case in the cleaning sector? We suppose you'll have calculated what the savings are, what the jobs are, what the savings are, what the jobs are, what the savings are, what the positive and negative economies that this produces. We'd like this to be explained to us because otherwise we would understand that a sector that is in a very delicate situation, like pemes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u190	Secondly, in relation to the hiring of services, which is a particularly precarious job, as we spoke here at first thing in the morning and especially in the fact that 90% of the employees are women, we don't understand how to produce this type of recruitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u191	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, for he loses all care, that the concern for pemes is shared by the Council of Galicia, without any doubt, for many reasons, that they are very difficult to discuss: firstly, because they actually form a fundamental part of the business fabric, of the entrepreneurship, they employ a lot of people on our land, and therefore they are a sector that must be taken care of especially. And second, moreover, because it is our obligation as an administration - and within the legality, of course - to favour free competition and to favour, when possible and objectively appropriate, the maximum access to any contract of the Administration. I believe that, as I say to you, there should be a few doubts about this and, in case it was necessary to demonstrate it, there are the initiatives of the Galician Union in recent years, as Law 14/2013 — you spoke about it — of rationalization of the autonomous public sector, which is an obligation to facilitate the access of small and medium-sized enterprises to public procurement procedures, or how the 2014 Public Procurement Improvement Plan - would refer to you too - which we have also done and which is also going in this direction. All of this resulted in a guide for a public procurement open to pemes that is to be met - and, of course, knowledge to be able to fulfill - for all sectors of the Galician Union that engage. So, since the theory has to be put into practice, I give you figures. The pemes sector is, indeed, very wide in Galicia, but, by circumscribing it, in the cleaning sector, which is the object of this initiative, I give you data: in 2015, there was — you've been talking about recruiting Galician board in services associated with cleaning— 53 contracts, of which 45 were less than a million euros, most of them less than a very lower amount, but I'm telling you one million because it's the figure pointed out by the representative of these pemes itself as the limit from which you can make it more complicated to compete for these bids. In 2016 it has improved a lot -- it's the latest data I have -- We're still in 2017 -- the current year -- 180 associated contracts since the Galician Union -- and I'm still talking about cleaning partners -- of which 172, minus one million euros. I'm going back to insist that it's the limit marked by our own pemes. With which, and already leaving for the specific case the second part of the intervention, I would like to make it clear in this first intervention that there is, but quite the contrary, no attitude of the Galician Union against hiring pemes, rather the contrary, so believe this data in which, I insist, because we are talking about the issue of cleaning refer to the cleaning sector. If we opened the fan, we'd see that in other sectors where pemmes participate, statistics would be quite consistent with what I just gave you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u193	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u194	Yes, we differ from that way of interpreting reality in relation to recruitment, especially in the cleaning sector, which is the case for us. By giving you a specific example too, and just with regard to these types of contracts that already affect small and medium-sized enterprises, not like another one of what I was talking to you, it was known this very week that at the University of Ourense, the cleaning contest is being tendered, which now takes Serlym Galicia, where the needs of the centre are not being adequately met and the bidding is not tailored to its own needs. They're removing jobs from 17 to 15, while the work area is increasing, and this is a constant in all cleaning contracts. This situation is recognized in the courts and is denounced, in this case, in addition, by the School Council itself of the University of Labor. But beyond that, in relation to the macrocompetition to which we are referring and regardless of that contest to which you are referring, I draw the attention of the complete expulsion of pemes to the option of the contest of what you are talking about. You're saying you're favoring the competition of small and medium-sized enterprises in this sector when the truth is, by volume of recruitment, they have no technical means to be able to assist, in order to be able to compete, in such a way that they can't prove to be adjudicative. In the previous cleaning contest, in 2014, carried out over 323,000 square meters, 664 workers are employed; now, in 2017, carried out over 765,000 square meters, will be used at 516. This means, in addition, one thing, and that the way to hire is to increase the work area for each hired worker or worker, moving to another 260 square meters, so to 20% more surface for each worker or worker, preventing, in addition, small and medium-sized enterprises from competing in those jobs. So less self-adjudication, a single addiction to a single company, more work for people who will be subrogated and expelled from work on our land for people in positions of leadership and supervision. This data, in addition, is approached by companies in the sector, the employer, which groupes 900 companies, which account for 20,000 workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u196	...of which 17,000 are women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u197	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u198	I'm just finished with a reflection on the employment policy that this means.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u199	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u200	Administrative recruitment could be approved, strategic public procurement could be used to promote quality employment, but it is not being done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u201	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u202	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, as I said in the first speech, focusing on the specific case and without any incentive to escape from it: recruitment of services and centralized recruitment - it is true - of the cleaning services of Galician Union, not of all the centers, but rather of an important part, which, of course, has been coming from the time of the Bipartite and earlier; that is, following a practice of many administrations. By the way, with the same law enforcement officer as at present and, therefore, with a desire, as is required by the Administration, to optimize resources, preserving workers' rights. I say this because you are perfectly informed - if there is any feeling that legality is not being complied with - that there has been an appeal from the tenderers, in particular, to the Central Court of Contractual Resources that has already been failed and that it has given reason to the Council of Galicia saying that it has acted within the strictest legality. I think this is important to make it clear. From there, I wouldn't call it prirics for savings. An administration is also obliged to look into this, preserving the rights of these workers, who would also have a lot to talk about there, because you know as well as I did that there were several members of the company committee who publicly disallowed the initiatives of a part of the committee saying that they were in agreement with what was being done and how it was acting. I'm saying it's on the company's side. And, therefore, this must be made clear, once it is made clear also that the Galician Board has acted - and so said the Court of Contractual Resources - within the legality. I'm telling you, I wouldn't call it savings, because by making a little history, in 2008 -- by giving you a global figure -- it's almost 15 million euros that have been saved by the Galician Union, centralizing contracts and always trying to keep jobs. You know this is because between contract change and contract change, except for a waiver, subrogation jobs are maintained. Hey, we went from 6.6 million in the 2008 contract and 46 centers to 5.5 million and 52 centers; that is, more centers with less cost in the 2012 contract. In the current current contract, 7 million and 75 centers, and in 2017 you already gave the figures. So there's an important saving, apart from the debt that we had to assume and inherit in 2009. It is an obligation of the Administration to manage resources well and to try, when it is seen that objectively and legally possible, to this type of contract. Which does not mean that, in fact - and there are the laws to say it and the Recruitment Guide I was referring to earlier -, you have to encourage batch-adjudication when possible. There is a commitment that has been acquired at meetings that have been held with representatives of the companies to charge - and it is already in charge - an external audit so that there is no suspicion that we have already tried to advance the results to see if, by keeping the principles of efficiency and savings in public spending, it is possible in this case to make a batch division and therefore to encourage access by more companies, always maintaining employment and always maintaining the working conditions of workers. To that we aspired, that there was no doubt in him, there was no other intention, and we tried to conjugate -- which is sometimes nothing simple, if not, would be done at all times -- the obligation to have a good administration with proper management of public resources with the necessary -- and it is necessary because there is a deficit -- ease of access of pemes to all tenders, I insist, when possible, that it is not always possible; but it is possible always try to do so and try to make that possible. In this case, we're going to see what that audit says and, of course, if so, on successive occasions and in successive contracts, not only cleaning ones, the Galician Board will take it into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u203	Thank you very much. Two questions are now debated accumulatingly: Question from Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. in Marea, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece on the problems arising in the working conditions of the staff and on the care provided as a result of the transfer to the Route of Services 061 and 112, of medical emergency care and emergency care Question by Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the measures taken by the Government of Greece to ensure the transfer of personnel to the Emergency Care Service of Galicia 112 to the new units on the Road in the best conditions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u204	The honourable Member of the En Marea Parliamentary Group, Mrs Solla, starts speaking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u205	Thank you, President. Mr. Rueda, I'm glad we can meet here today. I tell you honestly because I thought we were not going to be able to talk about the transfer of emergencies in Galicia, among other things because you know that you didn't allow this lady to visit emergency centers, nor the new one that just inaugurated or the old one that's been working for years. And also because you don't even accuse me of receiving the requests this honourable Member has made to meet us and deal with this issue. Now you will complain that we have to discuss this issue in plenary, however, there is no possibility for us or for the workers and workers to meet with you. So what we've been talking about here is a very delicate issue, because we're talking about emergency care, we're talking about life management, and that's why the management of this service should be very important for the Galician board and it shouldn't generate conflicts where there was no investment in professionals who have to deal with emergencies; however, it's not explained precisely that investment, rather than improving the way people work that have to deal with the emergencies of this country, many because of the telemarketing agreement, if you're going to do a huge sum building that gives you a megalonian attitude, as if the structure for itself involved a better service; a structure that is decided unilaterally, without dialogue, and a capricho that cost 10 million euros that we've paid all the Welsh and poorly planned. I have here, in fact, an invitation to tender for a later enlargement -- after you yourself opened the centre itself -- which cost another 400,000 euros. That's when three years ago they were investing in the Compostela plant. But I repeat, three years after this investment, I move 30 kilometers from a new work center to the Road, using, spending 10 million euros, and a work given to the Crowned entrepreneur Luis Vilarino. But worse than that alleged megalomania is -- or at least worse than the hard-to-justifiable expenditure -- the lack of willingness to sit down and negotiate the working conditions and conditions of that transfer with workers and workers. They've been on an indefinite strike for almost two weeks, and you remain unstoppable. When these workers and workers who handle something so delicate decide to go to a strike, it's because there's no other choice, and you don't feel like talking to them and them. Having the privatized service is a political responsibility and therefore the maximum management responsibility remains yours, Mr. Rueda. It's either they or they who have to cope with the costs of a displacement which implies 14,000 miles per year of displacement to their work center. Where is the employment and family reconciliation in your department, Mr. Rueda? A cost that they calculate, for milleurists, around 3,000 euros a year. You're listening and you don't want to sit down either when you've been warned that the computer system didn't work properly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u207	Today they were half an hour picking up the emergencies with paper and pencils. I'll continue next shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. The question is now put by the Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u209	Yes, thank you President. Mr Counsellor, without the intention of reiterating, of course, the exhibition which presented the previous spokesperson by En Marea, it is true that, after all that has happened, the call for a strike by the 112 company committee for services is still under way; it is true that the minimum services decreed by 100 percent and published in the Official Journal of Galicia a few days before 12 April have been cancelled by excessive, abusive, by the corresponding judge; and it is true that the situation of strike is currently continuing. The situation that we are all concerned about is double in this matter. On the one hand, the job situation of the staff that is working externally in service 112, because it's going to have to take additional costs because of this transfer without the necessary negotiation process and trade union agreements, and that's why we still have the strike going on. On the other hand, the concern is twofold from the point of view of the services they are managing. We have news, and if they are not — precisely why we are asking the question — we ask you to clarify whether the new platform is responding sufficiently to the capabilities that existed in the previous facility. We have news, I don't know if it is, if not, why we ask you to explain to us whether the warning system is SMS, whether the system of pre-allocation of resources and the system of geolocation is giving the necessary answers. He drew attention to the fact that in the past Commission 1 the Director General of Emergency had come there to tell us to all groups that the transfer was taking place with absolute and total normality. There can be no normality when we have a situation of strike and when, in principle, except for another convincing technical explanation, the failures that are giving the platform are the ones I have just reported. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u210	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs. Solla and Mr. Villoslada. I also greet the representatives of the works committee, who I think are in the gallery. Of course, I gladly give... I tell you, Mrs. Solla, because you said you had to ask me here. You can ask me at any time about this subject. It wasn't a surprising transfer, not much less. So all the information is necessary, as my obligation is. Of course, without any problem I am willing to give it to you at parliamentary headquarters. Another thing is that you are visiting the moment the transfer is being made, and you were told exactly what the reasons were for not accessing it at that time. I suppose, Mr Villoslada — and forgive me for exchanging between them — that is not under discussion — Mrs Solla, I understand that yes — on the part of the Socialist Party the need to seek a new headquarters for 112. This is not the first time I have explained in this Parliament that in 2009 the decision was made — as it was made that there was a project in which the building was worth as much as the building and the platform now — to move the headquarters of 112 to the municipality of Oroso. By the way, already on the hired platform, before it even knew what the building was going to be like, by the secret procedure. That's what we have to say, too. There were very curious things about that initiative that was already being taken, and that truncated the election result, to transfer a socialist government and the BNG 112 to the council of Oroso. I suppose you would think that in a new center you could better develop emergency care potentials in Galicia and that the center in San Marcos was not the right one, even though it was necessary. And so we want to make urgent arrangements for all this time once the decision has been made. Indeed, Mrs Solla, you said here was a political decision. Home!, politics in the sense that it is a government that decides it, after analyzing many absolutely objective parameters. You say there's a lot of emergency experts who say it wasn't moving. I can tell you that there are also many emergency experts who say that the transfer was a correct decision and that, without any doubt, emergency care improves, and much improves, in new facilities. And not only for the building itself, which is obviously a more modern and more comfortable building, but also — and above all — for the technology platform, which allows integrated and comprehensive attention, where they will be - and already the other day they have been visiting - the forces and security bodies of the state, to be present there too. I think it's very important that comprehensive attention we intend to give to emergencies. There are others, but I suppose they'll also understand something about emergency care and seemed to them a center that could meet the best expectations. So that was the decision we made. There's controversy in the media and we know it perfectly, first-hand, not free of controversy for a number of reasons, but our obligation was, first, to analyze whether the change was going on. Once it has been decided that yes, thinking that we were improving — we do not forget that we are talking about better emergency care — we are planning the transfer, planning that has been made for many months, in which the necessary training has been given to workers and workers — individual training, collective training, training that can of course follow if necessary — and then planning a transfer that was not easy and that has been complicated by the call for strike, but that has been carried out — I have to say — without any incidences that have put in danger the fundamental, which is the attention to emergencies. I'll thank you again for the professionalism of the workers. I'll thank you again for the work of a lot of technical staff that you've been there, and you'll be there watching and coordinating so that everything works well. And I'm sure from now on you'll see the benefits of betting, of making an investment, to provide better service and better attention to emergencies. I sincerely believe, Mrs Solla, that it is not responsible to say, as you said on twitter, that attention from the new center increases response times and would be given a worse service in cases like that of Englishman. It's not responsible for that, honestly. I can't admit it as an emergency officer in Galicia. And I think there are things you can't just say for trying to pull out political revenue. Clearly, emergencies are something very delicate, you have to try to do your best, and you can't, cheerfully, make these kind of statements. I am glad and celebrate that we have been able to make the transfer, and I am glad and I celebrate that from now on we are able to provide a better emergency care service, and will be seeing it in the short term. Without prejudice to the demands of the workers, which we must respect. But we also have to tell you that it is a service managed by indirect management, already before 2009, and our obligation — as we have done — is to try to mediate between the representatives of the workers and the company they depend on. That was done up to seven times, and I don't lose hope that it will finally come to an agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u212	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u213	Thank you, President. Mr. Rueda, I'm glad you follow me on the twitter, but, you know, I tell you, what is irresponsible, Mr. Rueda, is to make a transfer when it's not true that if you give the proper training to workers and workers. You're not telling the truth. These templates were the ones that were warning — and that's why they have to go on strike — that the transfer could not be effective while it was not functioning and operating 100 percent of the computer system — a system, by the way, for which they spent 1 million euros, plus half a million euros on housing systems, that the transfer could not be effective in those conditions, without you being able to negotiate the working and pay conditions and without being one hundred percent sure that the system would work properly. They didn't give them the right training. He's been denouncing them since before the strike started. And that's exactly one of the reasons. Obviously, the transfer times are increasing, not for the emergencies that care for people who are in the power station, but if there's a disaster like the Angrois accident, those people who are in their home have to travel 31 kilometers to that new power station. Obviously in that case, and in the case of people who are located in their homes, response times do increase. Of course. But there's no need to get to that. Response times are increasing because the operating system does not work. I told you, today he's been stopped half an hour, taking his attention to the emergencies with paper and pencils. And they're calling fire department and 061, on occasion, with their private mobile phones. Mr. Rueda, do you consider that to be responsible? Do you think you're doing a good job? We believe that not only does the question of megalomania overlap in the case of the building, but there is a certain prepotence and lack of respect even the rights of strikers and workers. Mr. Rueda, we asked you today that you have planned to make the Galician board in the face of all these problems arising from the transfer and that you will do to solve the working conditions of these professionals. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Replica, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u215	Counsellor, at least he doesn't seem to be very responsible, or to say positive/negative, it seems irresponsible to make this move with a strike called and which still continues. He didn't give us an answer. I would ask that we be answered here and, above all, that we should also be answered by the young people in Commission 1 if the platform is failing in the different aspects that I have commented on; it is important. We would also ask Commission 5 to visit these facilities, both because of the transfer of 061 and 112, which had not been attended either. On a subject like the transfer of a service as essential as 112, that darkness doesn't seem right to us either. But it is also that the representatives of the National Police Corps themselves are protesting because, because of the installation of the single rooms of Vigo and the Coruña, it turns out that without sufficient troops it seems they will also have to assign troops to this room. So I think this matter requires a lot more answers than we are being given in this Chamber, because really the situation cannot continue in this way — I insist — in a service as key as 112. And what I would also ask you -- to try again to look for that answer -- is if you're going to try to reach an agreement on working conditions with these about 90 outsourced service workers who think they're going to see their pay down on the transfer issue by 15%. Please come to an agreement, report on the status of the platform and respect, of course, the right to strike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u216	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u217	Thank you very much. Mrs. Solla and Mr. Villoslada, delighted, and I think it is convenient for you to visit the center. Once the transfer is done and it's working I think it's when you have to see it, and really evaluate what's going on there. I think it's time, and I'm very glad, really. Just like I celebrate asking the questions. By the way, they were registered before the transfer, and they were already talking about the problems that arose in the transfer. I suppose the logic was to wait for the transfer to take place, and then, in view of what had happened, to do it with greater objectivity and greater knowledge of cause. [[Murmurs.]] But they decided to do it like that, I suppose by trying to get revenue beyond what they really intend to ask. They don't have any doubt that if the Galician board, the Galician board technicians... it seems that everything here is political, but it's not political, it's the magnificent emergency technicians who have the Galician board who decide whether or not they give themselves the conditions to make the transfer. And that there was no doubt in him, for many reasons that they are easy to understand, that if the technicians said that the transfer could not be made, the transfer would not be done until the technicians drew green light. And that's what happened. The transfer has been made and 17,000 calls and more than 3,700 incidents are being served today. And I say and I insist again that, thanks to the professionalism of many people working there, the service is developing itself as if it has to develop an emergency service, professionally, taking care of people calling and with a platform that logically just installed, but is working and is working well. What's going to have to evolve? Well, as the previous platform evolved once it was installed. But he's doing a fundamental service without jeopardizing, in any case, the integrity of the people who call — in the vast majority of cases — in a complicated situation. So the decision to build the center was due to the intention — and I think we can — of improving emergency care. And I say again that the Galician Union, in its proper role, tried to mediate between companies and workers. There are a number of conditions on the table, and it must be the representatives of the workers and the workers themselves who decide whether or not to accept them. It's not true, Mrs. Solla. You talk about that the situation of all the workers is the same with regard to the physical location, and you know it's not. And of course, if we don't speak objectively, it's very difficult. I don't follow her on twitter, as I suppose you don't follow me. But there are things that are said and transcended by the pursuit itself, and when they are irresponsible and said things... it speaks of irresponsibility and prepotence. Well, I think it's a little overpowering to say directly that from now on people's security is not guaranteed and that emergencies in Galicia are virtually in a critical state. It's not like that, fortunately. So this decision — at the end of the day — has a political decision because it is a government that makes it — is taken after analyzing many objective data, many technical parameters, thinking that with this movement and this new location will undoubtedly improve not only the outline but also the conditions under which the emergency care service is provided. So the duty of a government is to do things to make them better, and I think in this case in a short time you'll believe it is. I insist on the invitation to visit the center. I think it's good. It's made of public resources, and therefore representatives of all the Greeks and Greeks must be the first to know how money is invested and how services are improved as essential as emergencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u218	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Jacobo's question... [[Speak words which are not perceived from the public gallery.]] Please, please, that's not allowed in the gallery. House services, help our guests leave the Chamber. [[Speak words which are not perceived from the public gallery.]] Please, House services, help our guests leave the Chamber. [[Speak words which are not perceived from the public gallery.]] Please, that's not allowed in the gallery. Help our guests, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Quiet, please. Please, this isn't allowed in the gallery. Please help her out of the rostrum. [[Speak words which are not perceived from the public gallery.]] Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know. But I just don't know what you're telling me. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know what you're telling me. I just don't know... If you ask me for the word... but I didn't see it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What happened? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But I don't know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If someone tells me it's what happened, I can make some determination, but I just don't know what they're talking about. I don't know. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, if they tell me, I can make some determination. What's the matter? [[Murmurs.]] What's the matter? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Let me give the floor to Mrs Prado del Río.]] Tell me, yes. Give a voice to Mrs. Prado's chair. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u219	Yes, Mr. President. First of all, I want to know if the Members of this House can take pictures and record from our stage. If so, I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u220	It's not allowed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u221	Well, as it isn't, I would like Mrs. Pontón, as she just recorded an illegal act, to contribute it to the House's Juridical Services to make the appropriate decisions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u222	Quiet. Quiet, please! [[Murmurs.]] It's not allowed. I think all Members know that. This is not allowed. You can't record, and I'll watch. Now, what I can't do is, if I haven't seen him... In any case, that's not allowed. It can't be recorded. Members can't record. No, you can't, it's Parliament's rules. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If it's done, it's done wrong. I'm sorry I haven't seen him, but I can't take care of everything at once. It's impossible. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I don't know. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, I think all Members know that can't be done. I pray for your cooperation with all Members; I do not only ask for it on the one hand or on the other, on the other hand, on the other. No photos can be taken or recorded. And I can't be paying attention to everything either because, besides, it's very difficult to deal with everything like that at once. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Let's go to the question. I think it became clear, and now, fortunately, we can carry on with it with all normality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u223	Question by Mr Jacobo Moreira of the People's Parliamentary Group. Question by Mr Jacobo Moreira Ferro and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Galician Union in relation to the first call for exclusive oppositions to persons with intellectual disabilities that will take place on 8 April 2017 in Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u224	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u225	Thank you, Mr. President. Very good morning. Of course, some Members do not know that a Member's main role is not to record, but we do. [[Applause]] Good morning, Counselor. Last April 8th took place in Santiago de Compostela the first selective process of the history of the Galician Union — I believe this is quite relevant and binding — reserved exclusively for people with intellectual disabilities, and, by the news we have, 429 aspiring people were enrolled. As early as January 2015, the Down Foundation had expressly requested the Vice-President of Galicia to convene specific oppositions for people with intellectual disabilities, and two years later the good news is that the first examination has already been convened. In order to carry out this process, you would advise that you conducted a collaboration with representatives of Down Galicia and the Galician Federation of Associations for People with Intellectual Disabilities or Development, Fademga, with the aim of facilitating the entry of this collective into Galician Union. It was also necessary to collaborate with the Social Policy Council and the equivalent bodies of other autonomous communities in assessing reports on the type of disability of applicants. We therefore believe that it was an exemplary cross-sectional act. Our question is to explain to us what is the valuation, Counsellor, that makes the Galician Union this first call for oppositions reserved exclusively for people with intellectual disabilities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u226	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u227	Thank you, Mr. President. In that regard, I would like to point out three questions. First of all, as I said very well, it is the first time this call is made and we are very pleased with how it has developed. In fact, we wanted to sign an agreement with Down Galicia and Fademga to carry out this process with the best possible company and in the best conditions. And therefore, first of all, my thanks, and in a very special way for these entities for their collaboration. In March 2016, this first call for six workplaces in the order category appeared in the DOG, and on April 8, we did the first exercise in Santiago. The second question. I think — and it was time — that we are faced with an act of normality and, like an act of normality that must be, incardinated, like any selective process, because what we want is to put good officials to serve our public services. One act, in addition, that responds to a clear social demand, and it proves that we have two factors: the high competition that you identified very well, in particular, 429 people; and the high participation. 352 people were introduced, i.e. 82%, when in the selection processes developed by the Public Service, normal is approaching 60%. So there was an exceptional response and it confirms that there was such a demand on the part of the citizen. We don't want to waste any resources either. The device and the operation we mounted were: 75 people — from psychologists, nurses and caregivers — who piloted all the exercise that was developed that day in Santiago. And now, as you all know, next week, the notes will come out and we'll quickly proceed to what's the second exam — anyone who has to do, because he's not qualified enough — of the German test, which will be a test-type test of ten questions. The final goal is that in the last quarter of this year, the selected people are actually incorporated into their work. And the third question I want to move you is that after this first step we will continue this path, because we believe in inclusive public employment. In the near future, in a month or two, we will convene another 16 squares in the General Administration, 4 of them for the first time as administrative assistants. And in Sergas we're going to call 17 storage rooms. But also, after talking to trade union organizations, our intention is to open a separate list of temporary employment for people with intellectual disabilities. There will therefore be continuity and new employment opportunities for these people. I therefore reiterate to you, Your Honor, the satisfaction of this government with the process, as it is being developed, and I believe that it will be shared...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u228	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u229	...for the vast majority of the members of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u230	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u231	Thank you, Counselor, for detailing the scope of this pioneering initiative of the Galician Union. I think it is important that we bring this issue to the full so that all Members of this House can hear it, the assembly of Members, and also the whole population of Galicia. And I say this because the integration of people with disabilities was mentioned a few days ago in a committee in which members of the opposition did not even have the slightest interest in listening to what the People's Party meant. Yes, they went out saying we had no heart because we didn't want to approve their generalities. And today, Counsellor, it became clear that the People's Group approvers are concrete measures and that the People's Group when it speaks is not with empty initiatives but with facts: 6 places in this summons, more than 30 in the following and a list of temporary employment, as you have just answered, Counsellor. So they are specific people with intellectual disabilities who will achieve a job integration in the Galician Union, in the Public Administration, thanks to an initiative by a government of the People's Party. And what we're wondering is why, if you're so worried about this subject, you haven't made this call in the provincial deputies or in the municipalities where they rule, because we don't know any initiative. There are even municipal groups of the People's Party like Santiago's that have put forward proposals in this regard. They could do it perfectly, but the tide groups and the rest of the opposition parties haven't done it. We have this clear, and that is why we are pushing this measure, and for this reason we support, Mr Counsellor, that the Galician Council will continue and extend this to the hands of social entities, in the same way that we approve that the hands of the sector are allocating a percentage of the Union's contracts to special employment centres and to the labour integration companies of persons with disabilities; a measure that has been put in place — it must not be forgotten — thanks to a law which was voted in this House in 2013. And that law they say to have so much heart, by the way, they voted against it, Counselor. Look, Counselor, if there's anything you know about people with disabilities and entities working with them, it's what they need the least...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u232	Thank you, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u233	...is sentimentalism and, on the other hand, what they need...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u234	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u235	...is commitments like those of his council and like that of the Council of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u236	Thank you, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u237	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u238	Thank you. Shuttle tower, Mr. Farmer's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u239	As I pointed out in my previous speech, the relevance of this first call is that for the first time we moved from words and generalities to facts. And it's that very specific people are going to get a job done in the Galician Union for the first time. Since June, we've clearly bet on inclusive employment, but it covers both the selection phase to which we are referring and also the performance of jobs. That's why the agreement we signed with Down Galicia and Fademga to accompany us in this incorporation and adaptation that, in their case, can happen at new jobs. Because in this matter, as in others — as is well known in the House — we do not improvise. This was basically collected, because we also boosted their concern in the different associations when we were developing the 2015 Strategic Plan. They transferred to us that we had taken their priorities into account, that we could also create stable public employment and eliminate any kind of discrimination. And, as you well know, so it is collected in the strategic plan itself; strategic plan in which, now that it has passed the time when, despite the time of crisis, we have kept public officials stable, we can go and sink into the inclusive character that we want to give them to employment, maintain social dynamisation and equality and also address other issues that have so far been little more or less likely than the opposition's to the demographic challenge. But at the same time — in coherence with everything we are doing — other accompanying measures and perfectly correlated with both the Strategic Plan and the Public Employment Act are collected in the Galician Strategy of Disability 2015-2020. In short, there was a demand and there was a demand that this Board made its own within its capabilities, and every time we walked more towards a purely cross-sectional matter, as at its moment it was, and in which we still have much to move forward, as may be the theme of gender. I think there is a need to have an impact on the question of social inclusion. But the most important thing today for this one that speaks to them is that I want to invite the major provincial and local administrations and also the university students in Galicia to imitate us, because it is very desirable that these deputies and corporations, such as universities, reserve part of their retirement rate and approve specific calls for these kinds of people. They will count on all our cooperation and support, and we will make available to them our experience in this inclusive public employment action of which I am particularly pleased to develop it and which I believe is a success. My congratulations to those who come to work and to those who truly have a chance for the first time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u240	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the evolution of the number of active persons and the rate of activity in Galicia in recent years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u241	You have the word "Mary Monserrat Prado Cores" from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u242	Very good day - it's late - Mr. Counselor. Next Monday is May 1st. It's a date adopted by the international working class as the day of struggle for labor rights in honor of Chicago martyrs, who were massacred for the eight-hour working day. And this May 1, 2017, a hundred and twenty-eight years later, the working class in Greece is going out on the street claiming the recovery of labour rights, claiming the derogation from the infamous labour reforms, so damaging to the working class, claiming rights that we were eight years old and that today we do not have and claim the restitution of stolen rights. In these last eight years they have attacked by land, sea and air the main rights conquered by the working class in their historical and constant struggle, and, sheltered by the excuse of the crisis, they have taken by assault pensions, labor rights, wages, reduced social protection, health coverage, resulting in poverty, counsellor. Today poverty is related to precarious work, partial contracts, with thousands of Welsh and Welsh people who have exhausted unemployment benefits, with 32% of workers and workers who have less than the minimum wage. We have to add that in these eight years more than 130,000 Greeks and gales, especially young people and girls, have gone to emigration looking for work that they don't find here on earth. The PP government has condemned these thousands of boys and girls to this massive exodus. This is Galician reality. And the Spanish State is the only case in which the total wages of the working class have fallen by 11% in recent years; even the salary has risen in Portugal, Germany or France. And labor reforms achieved what was proposed: more work and less pay. In this general context, the active population in Galicia, in the period of the Feijóo era, in these last two legislatures, did only decrease: 60,000 people less, 4,600 people in 2016, so that it didn't come to me that it was a matter of the past, but it was recent. The drama is that of these vast majority are under 35 years of age; 135,000 people are less active in Galicia in the last eight years under 35. A reduction of more than 11% of active people, and in addition to those younger and younger girls under 35 years of age, it was where the job came down most. That's why we ask you, Counselor, what does this fall of active people in Galicia do during the period, the era of Nuñez Feijóo? How do you think the working class in Galicia has to go out on the street in 2017 claiming rights that I was a few years ago and that their policies have stolen?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u243	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u244	And that recovery speech that PP prays...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u246	...—Finished, President—...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u247	No, that's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u248	...if it was real, as explained by the active population...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u250	...don't increase, when theoretically the gross domestic product is going to increase?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u251	You know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u252	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u253	Thank you. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u254	Thank you very much. Mrs Prado, indeed, we will celebrate every day of May 1st, the Day of Work. We'll all celebrate the recovery of rights; we'll all actually celebrate the struggle for work and workers' rights, because we're also workers. [[Applause]] And, said this, Mrs. Prado, I believe that this so-called partial reading that you come here to transfer to this Parliament is simply a very short-sighted view of the situation of the economy that the Galician Nationalist Block has, because I could also transfer to you specific data from the Greek economy. Why don't you mention that in Galicia the gross domestic product is growing 3,4 % above the Spanish average? Why don't you mention that the industrial production index is growing more than 6% above the Spanish economy? Why don't you mention that Galicia has the most important export cycle in all of its history over the past four years and that we're also growing and we're billing over 20 billion euros? Why don't you also talk about how business for kids and consumer confidence is getting better too? And if you want to talk about employment, why don't you say we've really been creating jobs — Mrs. Prado, creating jobs — the last three years? And only last year Galicia has about 20,000 more memberships of Social Security. Why don't you talk about that reality too? It's a reality, therefore, as you see, totally partial. But indeed, I think we have to talk about the reality of the labour market situation in Galicia, and that reality, Your Honor, is not as simple as you want to move here; it's not as simple. And if you really want to make a good diagnosis -- if you want, I think that's not your intention -- I think you have to have a little broad-eyed view. So the labour market situation knows perfectly well that it also has a demographic aspect, which you don't want to talk about. You know perfectly well that we have fewer active people, because we also have less population in Galicia, you know perfectly well. And you know perfectly well, if you want to talk about the rate of activity -- which, of course, as you also know, the decrease in that rate of activity was one point; the last eight years, a point -- that that rate of activity among children under 25 is traditionally lower than the rest of the state, but now more — Mrs Prado, in reply I will detail the data. And you know perfectly well that that rate of activity is falling fundamentally on the Thursdays, Your Honor, who are -- I think fortunately -- spending more intensively on training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u255	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u256	I'll tell you the details in the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u257	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u258	Give him a voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u259	I told him he'd already tell us what demonstration he's going to go, because the working class in Galicia has little to celebrate and much to claim. In fact, I told you that in a context where GDP will grow, and it turns out that the active population does not grow, it means, what does it mean, Counsellor? That this increase in income accumulates in a few more and is not redistributed between the population set, between the working class set. Precisely, that's the reality I want to talk about today, Counselor, that's the reality I want to talk about. And I'm not talking to you here about statistical data, we're not talking about statistical data, not even a battle of figures, we're talking about a country that's fading and that you and your policies are condemning Galicia, the Greeks and the Greeks, living the poor life of a rich country. They're condemning living the poor life of a rich country with their policies, because things don't happen because yes, they happen because someone makes decisions, and the decisions that the People's Party is making precisely make that data so that it increases GDP for the benefit of a few and most are much worse. [[Applause]] What future do you think will have a country that in eight years has lost 11% of the active population in under 35 years and 10% of employment in under 35 years? What's the future? What is the future of a country with this data? And the question is, when did you plan to do something to change, to reverse this situation? Counselor, you can't come here as a commenter of a situation and say, I'm just talking about the data that suits me. I'm here to talk to you about active population. Look, I'm here to tell you that between 2008 and 2009 the average income of the Greeks from the European Union was 89%, now there are 21 points below, 79%. That's the reality of the middle, I don't want to tell you the reality of the Welsh working class anymore. The data is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u260	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u261	...that the average income per capita is 6,000 euros lower...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u263	...that the European Union's average...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u265	Mrs. Prado, I come to give real data, I come to comment on nothing, and I come to answer your question logically. But I believe that Labor Day would be a good opportunity for your parliamentary group to go to Reganosa's workers, to the Ence's workers, to the workers of the thermal power stations... ultimately, of all the companies you want to close in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] It would be, I think, a good exercise. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, as you always come here, of course, without data... because logically it's very difficult to establish a clear debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, Your Honor, you know perfectly well that Galician migration balance with foreigners, among people between the ages of 16 and 29, has been positive, and has been positive since 2009. That's the reality. You mean here that Thursdays go from Galicia because they have no chance. No, you're trying to lock them up because they don't want to support any kind of industrial development in Galicia. Anyway, Your Honor, you tell me about data, and I'm here to talk about data. And you -- I told you in the first intervention -- don't want to talk about that in Galicia we have a demographic problem, your group doesn't want to talk about it. So if we have a problem, I believe that we must actually address it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But they don't want to talk because they don't care. All right, well, if they're not interested, logically, they'll always be seeing a partial situation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But I'm going to transfer the data. You know, actually, we have fewer active people because we have less population, that's a reality. But, Your Honor, if you pick up the activity rate data, you'll see that that activity rate increases in all sections over 25 years. That's the reality. It increases, I say it in Spanish, with cordial bilingualism: it increases. And you know perfectly well that in the 16-24-diminue frame, it's true. In particular, the 16-19-year-old section decreases from 20% to 5%. And what if this data were matched by the fact that the early dropout rate went from 25% in the first quarter of 2009 to 13%, a 12% decrease in the dropout rate? Almost these two digits and you'll probably start to find a different path for the evolution of the activity rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u266	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and two other Members of the G.P. of In Marea, on the forecasts of the Galician Union for the authorisation of the sale of hydroelectric concessions attributed to Ferroatlantica in the rivers Xallas and Grande
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u267	Mr. Casal Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u268	Good afternoon, Counselor. The Vice President of the Union, Mr. Rueda, has already told us to ask for Ferroatlantics when their owners are charged with financing the People's Party is populist. Well, if you care about workers and workers in Ferroatlantics, it's populism, it's populism! I don't know what you understand with that word. We asked you: what is it called defending the interests of alleged criminals? It is surprising that they consider it inappropriate to warn the Government that it is negotiating with alleged criminals who cannot give the slightest credibility, as it should not be taken into account the appreciations of state unions that have nothing to say or decide on the public goods of Galicia, which means a truly unheard of interference. If you want to have solvent and informed information, ask the members of the company committee in Cee and Dumbria who accompany us here today in Parliament, after leaving their respective unions for not at all contemplating the interests of the area, because they really know the public utility of the hydraulic power stations, as it has been for decades. The biggest guarantee for the viability of a company is to control its main inputs, in this case quartz and energy. Therefore, the greatest guarantee for employment in the factories in Cee and Dumbria is to maintain the ownership of hydraulic power stations, the rest are intelligence and financial interests merely outside the interests of Galicia and employment in the area. They don't turn around and refuse to negotiate anything with people who don't deserve the least credit. The best way to fund the necessary industrial plan for Cee and Dumbria is by the efficiency of the power stations within the company itself. So, for once again, we ask the Government of the Union, which we hope at this point to have enough information: does the Council of Galicia intend to authorize the sale of the concessions of the rivers Xallas and Grande to support a exclusively financial and speculative operation without any real guarantee of reinvestment in the area, circumventing the public good for which they have been assessed, how is the guarantee of viability and employment in the factories of Cee and Dumbria? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u269	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, allow me my first words in this question to be to wish you a prompt recovery to the workers of Ferroatlantics who were injured last week's accident. Logically, that's the main concern we have right now. Secondly, you come back here again and try to move a reality that only in this case sees the Marea Group. You're talking speculation. Look, here's the only thing you speculate about, because stating that the Galician Union is looking for some kind of excuse to approve the sale of the Ferroatlantic power stations or to pose any kind of aspect where Galicia might be a currency of exchange is speculative. I believe that Parliament, Mr. Casal, cannot be speculated. And both the Tide Group and the Galego Nationalist Block, when they talk about Ferroatlantics, they're speculating. Your Honor, this government is not — and you know — involved in any of the matters you mention, and you know — workers know, that is our calmness, and so do the mayors — that this government is going to work at all times to defend the interests of Galicia, the interests of the workers and the interests of maintaining industrial activity in Cee and Dumbria. Therefore, the Galician Union did not vary by one millimeter its position from the very first moment. We'll keep working to comply with the law. I hope you ask me to comply with the law, which, you mustn't ask me, is that we will comply with it. We will continue to watch for the maintenance of industrial activity and will continue to safeguard public interest. This was the position that we've moved to this House, that's the position that workers directly know, and that's the position that the mayors know directly as well. So, Your Honor, don't try to move here an imaginary reality, which is what you've come to do, and have the complete assurance that this government won't accept any kind of threat from anyone, any sort of conditioner, and that we will act with responsibility and always fulfilling the law and safeguarding the interests of workers and maintaining industrial activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u271	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u272	The reality, Counselor, is that we keep asking about it because they never answer to the point of the matter. In the Committee on Industry, we asked the Director General of Energy whether the Galician Board had met in January with the investment fund, which, according to the company, has already bought - because they have just communicated it to the American stock exchange shareholders - the centrals. We asked whether they met and eluded — if they eluded — the answer; there was no answer, so it follows our concern. That's why they don't keep this worker anxiety any longer. If you really think so much about the workers, this is real torture for them. They use Labour Day to make it very clear that power stations can't be sold. —how can you say that already depending on the reality of the public good that is being realized in the concession?—; to say also that they will not allow this operation in any way; that the industrial plan that is made for the affected area, in their case, could be financed by indebtedness guaranteed by the central authorities; that, for example, the factory of metal silicon oils, which would truly create a lot of employment; and that the so-called Ferroglobe industrial plan would be installed in Puertollano, when the rest of the activities would not generate virtually any employment in Galicia. They are allowed this operation, as it has already been done twice, for example, to finance other businesses; it doesn't happen the same time again. And we have a new proof that all of this from the Industrial Plan is just a smoke curtain. In communication to American investors, which is a communication in which false information cannot be disclosed, of a week ago, is again said that the operation is already done and does not mention in the whole Industrial Plan for the entire year of the company or a single data that an industrial investment plan is going to be made in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u273	Thank you, Mr. Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u274	Obviously, this plan is not going to be done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u275	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u276	They could already clarify the situation at once.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u277	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u278	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u279	Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Casal, I really feel very much - and I am very sorry - that you do not care at all about the firmness or transparency that the Council of Galicia has shown on this matter in Parliament and in the dialogue with the workers and in the dialogue with the mayors. I'm so sorry. Because this government can hardly be so firm and act so transparently. And you simply, as I told you in the first intervention, come here speculative, come here and make an opportunistic stance and come here simply not to talk about the facts, because as a Member you would be interested in, what should interest you, would be the facts. As I have told you on many occasions and today I repeat to you, because this government does not have any official demand for Ferroatlantic segregation; it does not. So you can hardly say anything about which you have no request. And I think that's, simply, Mr. Casal, common sense. So, if you don't give this government credit, that's your responsibility, but I can move you, and what I'm transferring to all the Greeks is that we don't have any kind of official application for segregation. And we don't have any kind of record about any sale, Your Honor; about none, about none... about none! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, therefore, with regard to your question, I move you that there is no type of pronouncement - at least one responsible government that acts in accordance with the applicable regulations - on a proposal that is not even submitted to the Administration. Therefore, Mr. Casal, today's all that matters to this government is to reiterate that we will comply with the law. We will continue to defend what marks the concession, which is to safeguard public interest through, logically, the maintenance of industrial activity; and therefore we will continue to defend the interests of workers, logically so that industrial activity can be maintained, and we will defend the interests of all workers, Mr. Casal, the workers of Cee and Dumbria, the workers of Sabón and all the workers of Galicia. Therefore, the commitment of this government is invariable: we will continue alongside industrial activity, we will continue alongside employment, and I already tell you that I feel you are not interested in the Government's response, but the Government's response I think is clear and transparent. This government doesn't have any kind of Ferroatlantic application.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u281	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Antonio Quiroga Díaz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the situation in which the declaration procedure by UNESCO of the Sacred River is found as the heritage of humanity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u282	Mrs. Burgo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u283	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Counsellor, the Sacred Ribeira, as we all know, extends south of the province of Lugo and north of the province of Ourense and is surely one of the most singular spaces that exist in Galicia, with values that I don't have time to describe here, but that all knowledge, and that make it more worthy of UNESCO's declaration of heritage. This is what the population of the two provinces thinks, and that's what led, in addition, to the fact that the Deputies of Lugo and Ourense, political antagonists, as we all know, had parked these political differences for the good of the population and the area and had signed in 2013 a convention to boost that statement of humanity's heritage. An interdisciplinary team was also organized in 2013 formed by experts from the University of Santiago in multiple disciplines - agricultural production, physical geography, edaphology, botany, history, archeology, anthropology, architecture... - coordinated by the People's Valedor, and in which the General Direction of Heritage also participated. This Parliament itself urged this board to be present on this candidature. Therefore, he technically advised this team to interdisciplinary the General Direction of Heritage. So much so that in April 2014 the Director General of Heritage personally presented the first plan of the territory that chose to be declared world heritage - in April 2014 -. He advised technically, and months later, in 2015, this first analysis, this first study, was completed and sent to all the signatories of the agreement. From here on, nothing else was known and practically no reply was made to anything at all. The Council was obviously aware that I had to formalize the BIC catalogue throughout this territory. More than two years have passed, and we don't know anything. And besides, it's very difficult to get an answer from the Council. Two years where we want to know what has been done, because it seems that nothing has been done at all and that the Council's involvement is not as diligent as it should be. And the situation is no less because we believe that this statement can give a boost, an impulse, to an area with a very important demographic regression, with a loss of population; it is precisely one of the centers of that territorial imbalance that we have in Galicia and the declaration can be very important for this area, as it was for the wine region of Upper Douro, because there is also the declaration of humanity's heritage. It was very important...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u284	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u285	...from the cultural point of view, but also from the economic point of view.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u287	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u288	Thank you. For the answer, the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Madam. The first thing I want to say, and I want to make it very clear, too, is that the Council of Galicia is also convinced that the Sacred River is a territory of exceptional value in many fields. It's a cultural landscape, it's a mixture of natural resources, of morphological forms, of architectural resources, of tradition, of culture, it doesn't have the slightest doubt; in any case, it's a surrogate landscape that deserves all recognition and deserves all protection from the cultural point of view. Obviously, what are we talking about? We are talking about that, so that, in some way, we can declare the heritage of humanity there is a procedure and there are a number of technical steps that it is necessary to take in order to be able to propose, so that the Spanish State may propose, in this case, to UNESCO its statement. And this has a long process in time. You started talking about 2013, but by the end of 1990 the Holy Ribeira entered Spain's indicative list for its subsequent assignment to UNESCO. You gave us some figures. In fact, I recalculated them and contextualized them. In October 2013, both Members had a verbal or political agreement. This agreement materializes in 2014 with a collaboration agreement where the people's Valedor institution assumes the coordination of a series of highly valued technical works, no doubt. These technical works were delivered in the summer of 2015 to this council. I picked them up myself. These are works, technical reports, a very interesting basic documentation, very well-worked, but obviously, we've already said at that time -- at that moment I said personally -- that this basic information had to be worked out, had to be adapted to the administrative format, which somehow comes from the characteristics and needs of a process set, in this case by UNESCO, in order to be able to present the document in the relevant field. Obviously, from that moment on, we've never been quiet. I absolutely question the expression that nothing was done. In fact, I'll have a chance to say what's done. But if what I want to ask you, what I want to tell you clearly, is that you're preparing and processing the BIC statement, which is not taking a basic information and just processing it without more. It's necessary to format it, so to speak in a colloquial way, of this information itself. For what? To be able to declare the BIC. Our forecast is: in the summer, we're starting the file, because we're talking about a very complex, tremendously complex file from a technical point of view. We're talking about more than 20 municipalities, we're talking about thousands of hectares, thousands of plots. We're talking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u290	Thank you. Thank you very much, Counselor. You've got another one after. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u291	...that we have to have a very well-worked document, since first it is necessary to compete at the national level...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u292	Thank you, Counselor. Then he's back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u293	...and secondly, that it is necessary to compete at the state level, with which, you have to have a lot of precision in the job and the candidacy you are applying for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u294	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u295	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, I have no doubt that it's all very complex. But to see if this complexity for you is growing over time, because, look, according to the hemerotheque, you said the whole file would be ready by the end of 2015, then in the summer of 2016, then by the end of 2016 and now in the summer of 2017. We're going from semester to semester, so it seems. He's in the hemerothecary and you can't deny what those statements did. What we want is, first, a clear commitment, but of course, to parliamentary headquarters, that you will cooperate as much as possible and that you are committed to this statement. And a calendar, because you, in addition to saying that in the summer of 2017 you will have triggered the file, you will know what more needs to be done, you know there are different phases. So when will all this process be done that depends on you? When do you think you'll be ready to go to UNESCO? And what will you do throughout this process? I think we can't wait any longer. You know it's been lost a long time since the 2015 General Heritage Directorate said that this file had to be fixed. From that moment on, until they got in touch with the people's Valdora and the deputies, it's been over a year. I just wanted to tell you, Mr. Counsellor, that in addition to doing your work — that I hope they do so — there is also a need to respond to the institutions, and you weren't able to go to a meeting called by the Deputy of Lugo, for example, to which they said they were going and then they didn't show up. There's something when you don't want or didn't want to, at certain times, answer when this file was. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u296	Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought your concern for the Sacred Ribeira was real, but I can see that what concerns you is that the Lugo Deputies adopt a criterion or that they abuse the right they would be advised to do their work, which they are doing. I thought it was a sincere concern, I see no. As I have also seen, in some statements by some members of the Socialist Party, some great mayor of the south of the province, who could almost be said to be against the declared heritage of humanity. In any case, Your Honor, I'll tell you something. It's much easier to make a statement, it's much easier to demand specific deadlines, than to process and mount a file with this technical complexity. Perhaps you think that with a statement from a political representative, your or mine, UNESCO is enough to declare humanity's heritage a territory as unique as we are doing, and it's not enough. You have to make a very good document, starting from very good basic information. Then you have to compete, first with Spain, at the national level, then at the UNESCO level. You will understand that we cannot be rigorous nor have a very clear criterion in this matter because it could lead us, by speeding up the deadlines or times, to a boundless calexion. You tell me what they're working on? Look, I'll tell you what we're working on, because I see you're a little misinformed. We are literally working on no smaller issues: in the definition of the universal and exceptional value of the Sacred Ribeira; in the delimitation of the territory according to that universal value; in a comparative study of the cultural landscapes declared by UNESCO that can present a similar value and thus prevent its inclusion in the list of the Sacred Ribeira. The development of the planning of the different areas to be demarcated, according to the definition of the territory. The study of the master lines of the plan of management of the territory of Ribeira Sacra and the preparation of the documentation for the BIC declaration file based on the exceptional universal value. I insist, we'll have all this in summer. And you have to be very careful. What we have to have is a story that makes it possible for evaluators... I insist, we have to compete at the national level first, and then at the UNESCO level. You better think of making a statement of humanity's heritage is taking a photocopies to UNESCO. She's frankly wrong! Here, in these matters, you have to have a very good record. It must be borne in mind that it has to be impeccable from a technical point of view, because it has to compete first at the level of Spain and then at the international level, and nobody gives anything in this field, and at the end nobody disputes value. But I insist — and I return to what I said at first — it is much easier to make a statement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u298	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u299	...to process a BIC file and a heritage file of humanity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u300	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and six other Members of the G.P. Galician folk, about the main features and utilities of the new 061 app for mobile devices, Galician health emergencies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u301	Question by Mrs Díaz of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u302	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, the importance of quality in the care of users and their satisfaction with the care services received is paramount in health organizations in order to continue to improve. In a plenary session of this Parliament, we have already asked you about the Acute and Help Program for the incorporation of volunteers into cardiorespiratory arrest treatment through an APP for mobile devices. Counsellor, we know you're often working to keep moving on in the pursuit of a better health system. We've also known, since the beginning of this year, the launch of another APP to guide patients through the health centers that the APP follows. Smart geolocation system of users in buildings; a pioneering system for the location and guidance of patients within several health centres. But today we wanted to ask you about APP 061. We know that the Public Health Emergency Foundation of Galicia 061 launched, in the first weeks of this year, an application for mobiles and tablets framed in the health innovation plans Horizonte 2050 and Innova Saúde, by Sergas. This application, in addition to the 061 call option, facilitates patient geolocation in an emergency. This is a major step forward in assisting patients in the out-of-hospital environment, especially in our community, that due to their climatic characteristics, orography and even large geographic dispersion are of vital importance all these technological advances that are taking place in Sergas in recent years. Given the transcendence that may have the use of this new application for Galician citizenship, and by trying to spread its functioning position from our parliamentary group, we would like you to answer what today are the main features and usefulness of the application for mobile health emergency devices in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u303	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam, the truth is that the question you are asking is very much because we are in the process of starting a new activity in a service such as health care, which is fundamental to human treatment, but new technologies are helping to improve health care. That is why I think it is very good that we can give Parliament knowledge and publicity to this initiative. In last January, since the Galician Health Service we launched a mobile application of IOS and Android with the aim of improving communication between the services of 061 and citizenship, taking advantage of the fact that 061 is one of the most valued services in the state because it is already a reference for every citizen who has a health problem. An application — as you also said — developed with Feder funds under the innovation projects H2050 and InnovaSaude, through the public procurement formula of innovative technology. As you know, Galicia is the first administration, the autonomous community, which uses innovative public procurement, and we have been awarded by the ministry itself and also at European level. We are even waiting to talk about innovative public purchasing in autonomy like Catalonia or, within a few weeks, in Paris, at the European Union level, because they know that Galicia is a reference in this respect. It is available free of charge in the usual places that they use and know perfectly, putting in Galician health emergency search, and you can download on any mobile device, whether phones or tablets. With this application, patients and citizens in general, because we're not talking only about sick people, but anyone can use it. They can call 061 from this APP, with which, logically, agility is greater. Allows you to make a call by which the citizen sends his/ her geolocalized identification and exact position data. This circumstance facilitates the recovery of data from the patient's own clinical history by the workers of 061. He also has a communication channel with 061 Galician. From the APP, a communication channel is made available to the citizen with 061 doctors oriented to the resolution of doubts or queries. The answers are received by the patients in the APP itself, as text messages. Even so, you enable a channel to send suggestions, complaints or thanks to the different emergency care units in the Galician Health Service, which will be analyzed within the framework of continuous improvement processes of the citizen service. In addition, it will locate emergency centers and resources and health emergencies. It allows the location by proximity of pharmacies, continuous care points, hospitals, health centers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u305	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u306	...and also defibrillators, the utility the Acude and Help program referred to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u307	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u308	Thank you very much, Counselor, for your comprehensive and detailed answer. We see that this new APP, with all the advantages it offers to users, completes the extensive services that it continues to offer Sergas, started in 2009 with the Sergas Strategy 2014. The process of transformation of the Greek health system is more than patent; a process that we know does not like the opposition. Today we have nearly a hundred percent coverage of clinical history and electronic recipe, but the opposition says health is worse. We've also scanned nearly 100 percent of the medical image, but the opposition says health is worse. Today there are programs such as the telephone consultation or the Connecta 72 program, with a total of about 5.4 million queries that could be solved without the patient's need for displacement, but the opposition says that health is worse. We also have an e-consultation between primary and specialist, with almost 8,000 made in 2016, but the opposition says that health is worse. So for the opposition, health seems to be worse than the more technology it is. It's incredible, but that's it. In addition, they certified budget amendments when they asked to withdraw most of the games for Sergas' new technologies. We don't have that vision. We want better health with more technologies. We once again congratulate Sergas on his continued progress, and we would like to ask them what improvements they have planned for these new APPs so important to the population; what evolution will be and what new utilities could be added as they are consolidating and extending their use. And we would also like to know which acceptance this app has had since its inception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u309	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u310	The truth is, sometimes it's amazing, because I think new technologies, ICTs, are fundamental to any organization that wants to evolve. That's why the board, in general, has own funds dedicated to this end, but it's also demanding, and so far the European Union considers, as it said before, Galicia one of the administrations that best use new technologies and therefore those funds, that they would never come to Galicia if there had not been an innovative project. Specifically, the Acute & Help theme, which is one of the tools. We're going to locate the defibrillators, and, as I said, they are participating Red Cross volunteers coordinated since the Coordination Centre 061. In fact, I take advantage of inviting Members already, because on the 8th day at the Praza do Obradoiro, there will be a simulation where we will show the usefulness of this APP, but also the activation of volunteers to care for patients who would not reach the hospital facility, and can be cared for and saved in a public place outside the healthcare field. The 041 APP also has another utility: it gives first aid performance patterns. In order to raise awareness of the importance of the knowledge and training of the implementation of first aid, this APP includes a section of health information prepared by the 061 professionals themselves. It's a tool that's already in the market for these kinds of applications, it's in front of all of them. They have more known, but not that they have so many services, especially services applied to Greek citizenship. And towards the future we still have on the table improvements for her, and one of them is, in addition to this call option to 061 that previously commented, to incorporate the possibility of recording information about several users and households, so that anyone can ask their relatives for help if they need it, in the case of emergency or emergency health emergency, which is also common; sending photographs and videos to 061 with this APP, or video conferencing with professionals directly, where you or the accompanying person who can comment on it; and also giving accessibility to disabled patients, for example, people who use sign language. We are working the same way — as we said before — in the follow-up of emergency processes in hospitals, allowing us to know where the patient is located or the expected waiting times. Besides, we're also working on drones in Rozas so they can transport defibrillators. This is nothing we can say that it's science fiction, but it's working right now and that's where we're going to keep working. At first we're about a thousand discharges, which are still few.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u311	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u312	That's why we're doing this right now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u313	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u314	...information campaigns for greater use by citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u315	Thank you. Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures planned by the Government of Greece in the face of the increase in fires during the winter of 2016-2017 in the province of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u316	Question by Mrs Presas Bergantiños, of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u317	Counsellor, since the BNG today we bring a matter to this House which we are deeply concerned about: the fires. We are concerned that this was a hard winter, especially in Ourense, which is a territory — as you know — that has already been punished, once again, this last summer. Part of our country that only in 2016 concentrated more than half of the 22,000 hectares that burned down in total and which also concentrated half of the large forest fires over 500 hectares. Names like Entrio or like Lobios starred headlines from the newspapers, not by hosting that treasure, which is the Natural Park of Jurés, but by burning. Arder in the summer, in the winter, and also this difficult April. A difficult month, in which we can't help thinking neither in other localities of our country, affected in the last few days in all its neighborhood, and also in every one of these extinction professionals who give their life for our mountain. This winter was complicated, it brought little cold and little calm, not in vain Ourense burned twice as much as in 2015. And today we speak of Ourense for two fundamental reasons. First, because the special incidence in this part of our country has the problem of fires over decades needs a specific prevention and recovery intervention. And second, not by localism, but because we think Ourense is the mirror of what can happen in the rest of the country as well. Factors such as deforestation, abandonment of the mountain, lack of device adequacy, are the same as repetition, and repetition is equal to extreme consequences for the future, and we can't afford it either for Ourense or for the rest of the country. Look, believe me, that we didn't come here with either morbidness or opportunism, we saw with deep concern and with proposals. As you know, we're two months from the most risky period, and in the 26 days we've been in April almost every day, there was -- if we do half -- a fire of more than 20 acres. That confirms something that we understand that the Administration is ignoring: that there is a new type of fire; that there is a fundamental factor, that is destabilization, that is not being adequately taken into account. We understand that they must reconsider their lack of policy in the long term and that they must bet more rigorously on prevention for the immediate future. Immediately, the device must work as soon as possible, at a hundred percent. We also believe that there is a need to increase massive dews, increase strips of protection and provide immediate public assistance. And that for the medium term we must bravely address the structural causes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u318	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u319	...and the consequences of this scourge.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u320	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u321	Thank you very much, President. For that concern is also shared by the Government and the Rural Council, and I think it's good to talk now, in April, about what the fires themselves are and not wait for the summer, just when we see a candle nearby. That's where we're working. I would like — since you asked the question — to focus a little on what is our concern and the studies we have. And from there not only speak of the province of Ourense, but also of all Galicia, because, as you know, depending on whether the Northeast wind blows, the fires are in the province of Coruña or are in Pontevedra, and if there is dry, they are in the area of Ourense. And this time he even touched Lugo. One more year, when circumstances of strong winds are conjugated with drought, forest fires return to our mountains. To our mountains and also to the aliens, because here we have the case of Asturias and also the case of Leon. Counselors and advisers with whom I had the opportunity to be in Madrid at the Advisory Council, who have a deep concern about what is happening in our territory. Last year we developed a study on the causality of forest fires whose results I'm not going to degrade, but you do have a minimum knowledge, see how we move forward and what new types of fires are. Before deepening the study, it is necessary to review the studies and the causes that are collected from that version. Natural causes: the most common in Galicia are rays. Accidents, which are fortuitous causes. Negligences: an action that sparked the fire from a defective or risky execution. Intentioned: when there is a will to do harm, of course. And then there's a series of fires that, despite the fact that they're all absolutely registered and each one has a token, they're not able to determine what their causes are. So, for the period from 1 January 2006 to the present, we meet with the following. Natural causes occurred in Galicia at 1.59% of the fires recorded; that is, an anecdote. Because of negligence and accidental causes, 7,75 % of fires. Intentional forest fires, 75.17%. And for some undetermined reasons -- because there are others too -- 15,48%. When we analyze the data, we see that as the years go by, it increases by 10% to the percentage of intentional fires, up to 85.30%. And the percentage of fires started by accidents, neglects or natural causes is reduced to 2.91%. It is also important to take into account the following data, hence the concern we will share.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u322	Thank you, Counselor. He still has another hand after.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u323	Perfect. It's just a fact, president, because I think it's important. It should be borne in mind that 30.39 % of the fires for the period from 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2015 began...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u324	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u325	...from 21 o'clock to 7 o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u326	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u327	Thank you, Counselor. We agree that April is a good month to discuss this subject. It could be also October, November or December. So from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group we ask you again, please, to talk about the Pladiga as soon as possible. But it's not enough to prove the achievement of more and more frequent fires outside the summer, let's talk about it when we talk about it. We must also reconsider that calendar, because there are facts that show that need. They also want to increase protection in spaces that are theoretically the most protected in our country, like Jurés, and to those whom we see that the device is not working because it's been burning three consecutive years several months a year. Allow me — since I have little time for this reply — to do something that might surprise the People's Party, but which I think is just, and it is to bless it for a matter. Last year, at the end of the legislation, when we talked here at an interpeleration of the Nationalist Block of Galicia regarding the situation of forest firemen, the collation came out on the question of Pladiga because it had just been published a few days earlier, and you told Mrs. Teresa Paz that you didn't know what it was referring to with that new typology of fires. His board of directors is late, but we rejoice that he corrects, that he finally recognizes that there is a new typology of fires and, therefore, that we have to sit down to talk and reconsider what needs to be corrected in his policies. Be assured that, in order to dialogue, you will have the Galician Nationalist Block in a positive way. I don't want to leave my intervention here. In the short time that I have left, I just want to take advantage of to insist that not only prevention is essential for us, not only short-term, but long-term thinking. To think of structural problems, those that are well-defined and that require a different strategy of intervention, to think about the other side, the part of recovery. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u328	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u329	I'm going to try to figure it out so I don't spend time. When I talk about the new typology, I'm talking about the analysis you did last year at the Conseilerie du Medio Rural and the progress you're making with the fires clearly intended. I mean, there were certain times when they were accidents or neglects; now that's going to be anecdote. What we're dealing with right now is that the vast majority of the fires are intentional, from there the government's concern and I suppose the concern of all of you. In fact, we'll talk about the Pladiga as soon as possible, but we won't stop working. In fact, the operation is underway with 3,000 people and with 10 helicopters; it's true that by June it will be with 7,000 people and with 30 helicopters, among others. But I have to tell them we're moving forward, and we're doing it in a number of ways. For example, in the renovation of the mobile park, you know that 12 new bombs are being renewed, with an investment of 2.5 million euros. To this we have to add the motorcycles that we renewed last year, which were a total of 43, in which an investment of 11 million euros was made because we believe that the safety of professionals working around the fires is fundamental. Once again, I want to make your work palpable here and the great effort they make, because, indeed, every time they go out into a fire, they're playing their lives. We're still moving forward. Also tell them that tomorrow, at the Board of Trustees, another process begins, a process of processing for the provision of 143 new vehicles for forest district brigades through the re-renting process of forest fire prevention and defence. Here the investment is more than 7 million euros. I mean, it's a day-to-day job in the organization, it's a prevention job, but it's also a job to equip our staff with the best equipment. Apart from all this, it's been done over the past year, and it's going on this year, the renewal of individual protective equipment, that is, of the SEPI. The Rural Media Council is renewing for a total of EUR 1.7 million for this year and next year. It has been committed — and we are doing so because we believe it is essential — to offer at least 20% of the squares in the previous period for the same staff. He's reached agreements and he's come to second activity. The parties have been aware of the labour risks of this collective, so it continues to move forward in this direction. With this, I mean, apart from prevention, apart from having the agreements for three years, we've also been making progress in improvement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u330	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u331	...of different equipment for our staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u332	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u333	And thanks also for sharing that concern for our mountains and fires in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-04-26-DSPG026.u334	Thank you, Counselor. Finish the full here. Good afternoon, everyone.
