ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u1	Good morning, let's start the session. Let us resume the session with agenda item 6, which corresponds to questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to avoid the sale by Ferroatlantica of the hydroelectric power stations of the river Xallas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u2	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u3	Good morning. Mr. Feijóo, this is, if I'm not mistaken, the third time I ask you about Ferroatlantics, or, if you prefer, to be much more precise, by the police, by the ballatzo, of 255 million euros that you intend to give the defendant Villar Mir the cost of selling the Xallas River power stations. And today, to vary, I would like you to be clear and to stop hiding in false arguments that no one ever buys from you, Mr. Feijó. I demand clarity, and not for me, not for the BNG, but for the more than 300 families who are on the loose, because you are playing with their bread and bread and their children's bread. I demand clarity concerning the whole Coast of Death, which went out on the streets to tell you and Mr. Villar Mir that the Xallas power stations do not separate or sell themselves. And I demand clarity also for the dignity of this country, because Galicia is not for a Madridan businessman, investigated by the corruption of his party, to end up cashing our natural resources. This is Villar Mir's third attempt to make this real ball. In the past they did not allow justice or social mobilization, nor did the government of Fraga. And they didn't allow it, Mr Feijóo, because they knew, as we all know, that the only guarantee that the plants in Cee and Dumbria continue to be linked to industrial production. It's the only lifesaver that has plants on the Coast of Death. I hope you're not the one who gives birth to this businessman's blackmail, who doesn't betray the interests of Galicia and the workers from the Coast to Death. There's no law that makes it possible for a 255 million euros to be given to an entrepreneur investigated by the alleged illegal financing of his party. I remind you that it has already appeared in the papers of Basel and that it appears now also charged in the Lezo operation. Mr. Feijóo, Galicia is not for us to pay him the favors his party can owe to Villar Mir. There is therefore no legal basis to allow this businessman to commit this blackmail. Look, the investments that Villar Mir promises us to disguise this real platoon, this real cop, have the same credibility as if you're announcing today that he's going to order Mr. Bárcenas a plan to fight corruption. When Villar Mir talks about creating jobs, he has the credibility of who bought a company that had 500 jobs and today has 300 jobs. When Villar Mir talks about investments, he has the credibility of those who promised us a furnace nine years ago and who are still waiting for him on the Death Coast. The promises of Villar Mir have the credibility, Mr Feijóo, of whom it has been 20 years without investing in modernizing the plants of Cee and Dumbria, although it has won hundreds of millions of euros by exploiting the river Xallas. Everyone knows that what Villar Mir wants to do is take the money and get lost. The question is, Mr. Feijó, are you going to be an accomplice to this cop, this real swindle to Galicia? Will Ferroatlantic become your Isabel II Canal, Mr. Feijóo? I hope you clarify it in the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u5	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I thought we were talking about the Death Coast, and it makes you feel like we're talking about Madrid politics. But that's your decision. It's true that you've been asking for information about this three times, and it's true that at last in the Galician Union we've had the segregation application file for four working days ago. You've been trying to insult the Government for months — if, Your Honor, to insult the Government — you've been trying to confuse public opinion for three months, and you're raising yourself in the only benefactor and the only protector of Ferroatlantic jobs. I want to tell you, Your Honor, that I will be the guarantor of the law and the guarantor of Ferroatlantic jobs. These are the two commitments we have since the Government. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, you have a very bad idea of that businessman. Well, each one will have his own. What surprises me is that you want to continue depending solely on that businessman. On the one hand, it says you can't believe in any case, but on the other hand, that businessman has to keep exploiting the Xallas power stations because you feel good and bad. Look, Your Honor, the laws are neither good nor bad, the laws are done. I'll be the guarantor of the law. I'll be the guarantor of transparency. And in the same way, the works council has a guarantee that we will not do anything without communication and reasoning, without realising with the works committee what we will do. And in the same way, they have the guarantee of all the mayors of the Coast of Death, the ten mayors — who, by the way, meet me twice with them, last Friday, that we will do nothing aside from the law and leave the job. Mrs. Pontón, I'm telling you with total peace of mind, look: absolute transparency, every time we have an information, the company committee will know it. Next Friday, the company committee will have access — i.e., last morning — to the file. If you would like access to the file, please ask in accordance with Article 9. Have you ever asked for it? Well, you don't have any doubt that he'll have access to that file. And therefore nothing to hide, everything to guarantee. Look, Your Honor, if the company's demands don't fit the law, the file will automatically be filed. If what the company demands is law-compliant, we will automatically ask the company for as many or more guarantees as today's workers have. That's our proposal, Your Honor. We won't let ourselves be pressured by anyone, neither by the company nor by you. The lyrics of the Galician Waters Department and the Galician Junta lawyers have that file. They will act with rigour, with which you have not acted from the beginning. And I repeat to you that I am the guarantor of the law and the guarantor of employment in Ferroatlantics. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u7	Mr. Feijó, I, of course, regret that, when you have no arguments, you must always come to personal disqualification. It's his particular style. It's your particular style, and I have no fault of any lack of consideration and respect that you have for what you don't think like yourself, that we are also Welsh and Welsh. [[Strong murmurers.]] I don't know why you insult workers and workers, who have been here for months — and the whole area of the Coast of Death — claiming that if you want to commit a real policeman, a real scam by a businessman, Mr. Villar Mir. In any case, look, a year ago, when we reported in this House what we already know today that Villar Mir wants to do, Junta had a speech. And he said in this House his government, Mr. Feijóo, "The board guarantees that the new power stations in the Xallas will account for more than 700 jobs." These are three power stations you gave to Villar Mir in 2012. Where are these jobs, Mr. Feijóo? In Castellana? Madrid? In OHL? Tell us, Mr. Feijóo, where are these jobs? [[Applause]] But there was, Mr. Feijóo, a lot of roundness, a lot of roundness, a lot of roundness in this regard. And his government said something very clear: "There has never been segregation of activities and there will never be." There has never been segregation of activities and there will never be, that's what you said a year ago. And now, suddenly, he changes the script and what he tells us is that he's going to comply with the law. Man, I'd just miss you, Mr. Feijóo! I know! [[Laughter]] I'd just miss it! [[Murmurs.]] Sure, coming from a member of the People's Party, there might be someone who's surprised you're saying this. Yes, of course, the bank rescue was also legal, and a technical and legal decision. But what law said thousands of people would be left to rescue the bankers? Of course, Mr. Feijóo, that's your legality, that's what you're going to defend. [[Murmurs.]] I insist, tell me: in what law, in what article, at what point is it said that Mr. Villar Mir should be allowed to do a ballat of 255 million euros, which is a policeman? Look, if you think the power stations are no longer necessary for the plants of Cee and Dumbria, why will you allow Mr. Villar Mir to do business by selling a public asset? If you don't need it, rescue the concessions for the public and invest those resources in developing the Costa da Morte. But you know, as I know, as the workers know, that the only lifeline that has the plants of Cee and Dumbria is to keep activity united and that this segregation is not allowed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u9	I, Mr. Feijóo, have your hand so we can make a country deal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u10	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u11	...in defense of employment on the Coast of Death, in defense of maintaining industrial activity linked to electrical production activities. That's the only guarantee of employment. Let us make a great deal of a country agreement so that our natural resources can be used to develop Galicia and to demand Mr. Villar Mir that, instead of using the power stations to invest outside our country, that is the industrial development plan of the Costa da Morte region.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u12	Mrs. Pontón, thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u13	Mr. Feijóo, I hope you accept this proposal, because there's a lot at stake.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón, your time is up. Mr. President's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, the development of the Coast of Death is part of the government's commitments. I myself have been criticized by this House, by some parliamentary group, by making the highway to the Coast of Death, you will remember it. They said it was an absolutely disproportionate investment. Yes, Your Honor, yes, it's in the Journal of Sessions. And since there are neighbors on the Coast of Death, it's good that they know him. I am very proud to be criticized by this Parliament, in certain groups, for making the Costa da Morte highway, so, Your Honor, I will not accept any lesson on the Costa da Morte. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, why do you have any problems with transparency? Why do you have problems meeting with the company committee and with the mayors of the Coast of Death to examine a proposal above the table? Why? Do you think that workers have no opinion of themselves and you are the only representative of them? Do you think the people on the Death Coast will think that the only one who defends the Death Coast jobs is you and that we're against? You've been saying this for three months and I can't accept it, Your Honor. I can't accept it because this government is committed to jobs on the Death Coast, and to Ferroatlantic jobs. And that's why the workers know that the current title -- yes, sir, I'm going to read it -- does not guarantee a number of jobs in those factories. And to hide this information is to hide what workers have the right to know. So, Your Honor, this title — which I don't say it doesn't have its value — doesn't say how many workers there are in the factories. Therefore, Your Honor, at this moment we must first examine whether this company's proposal is legal. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because if the company's proposal is legal and we don't give it permission, the company can go to trial, win the price, and we're out of power stations and no commitments. [[Murmurs.]] So, Your Honor, we're going to be serious. Don't pressure a government that's going to comply with the law, don't pressure a neighbor who knows perfectly well that I have no more commitment than to defend them. Look, Mrs. Pontón, both the workers and their families, as well as the neighbors and the mayors of the Coast of Death, know that we are going to act according to three requirements: law, public interest and employment, nothing more than law, public interest and employment. [[Applause]] We will not accept any proposal from the company that does not comply with the law — first requirement —. Secondly, we will not accept any proposal from the company which, even if it complies with the law, does not guarantee in a way equal or greater what we have guaranteed to the central authorities — equal or superior —. That's why, Mrs. Pontón, don't worry. Why do you care, and why do you think this majority group doesn't defend the workers? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, the workers on the Death Coast, the workers on the Ferroatlantics, the workers on Cee and the workers on Dumbria, have my word that I have no more commitment than to their families. That's my word, Mrs. Pontón, I'm not going to fool anyone. [[Applause]] I'm going to study the matter and I'm going to diminate according to the law. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Pontón, demagogy is all yours, rigour corresponds to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u16	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u17	Yes, Your Honor, I have no doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u18	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u19	You have already made ruinous approaches to the country, such as leaving the European Union, leaving the euro... yes, Your Honor, workers have the right to know their economic policy. [[Murmurs.]] Your economic policy is to close Reganosa. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u20	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u21	Its policy is to go against the combined cycle plants.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u23	His economic policy is, when he's interested, to defend the workers and, when he doesn't, to attack the workers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You know what, Mrs. Pontón? Ferroatlantic workers have the government's commitment, we are the law guarantors and the job guarantors. And the workers will check... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u25	...and they'll keep checking, just like the mayors. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the implications for Galicia of the decisions of the central government on infrastructure
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u27	Question by Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u28	Good morning. Allow me, before I ask the question, to greet the company committee and the neighbors of the Coast of Death who are listening to us. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, since the elections, the Government of Mariano Rajoy has always given us the Welsh and Welsh after the beating, often in his face. He vetoed the debate at the Congress of the Proposal for a Law on AP-9 which unanimously approved this House. Now that we send her back to the improved Congress, your party colleague, Mr. De la Serna, states that title has to follow where she is. And that we're no longer talking about the possibility of using funds from the General Administration of the State to reduce the fees or rescue the concession. I wonder how you would qualify that performance if you were in the opposition instead of sitting where you are. And in relation to the deadlines and the stroke, it's been about five years, no longer running Mariano Rajoy's government 40% of the funds, about 2,200 million euros, feeding on the delay in the arrival of AVE to Galicia, the equivalent of four years of effort for the arrival of Galicia. And in 2017, as a result of this cut, what they do is they cut the funds even further, because, according to the argument we hear in the press, we have to adjust what is assigned in the budget to which they are executed. In other words, as they have left us duty, because now we do a discount and we have to thank the one who makes us lower their realism. Shouldn't it be on the other hand and incorporate the unexpended one into the appropriations provided for this year and the next and be able to move forward in this way the arrival of AVE to Galicia? Mr. Núñez Feijóo, do we have to keep saying that it rains or we will seriously defend Galician interests? You promised in this House that AVE would arrive at the end of 2018. Are you willing to ensure at parliamentary headquarters that we can arrive from Santiago to Madrid in 2 hours and 35 minutes, in 3 hours from A Coruña, and so on from the other villages of Galicia, at the end of 2018? Because the arrival of the AVE just means that. What date can you give me for this time of displacement? Or would you rather I tell you what is the first realistic date in my second intervention? And don't tell me there's no money. If there were them for the Basque Cup, we've forgiven him 1.4 billion and we've reduced his contribution to the future by 750 million each year. He promised the Government of Mariano Rajoy to connect the port of Bilbao to the European freight corridor, to make the logistics platforms — the three needed in the Basque Country. It was to promise the insubmissive Catalonia a great breakthrough in infrastructure. Nothing for Galicia, because here there's no fire to put out or an autonomous community president who has the problems round his head. If we had more time, we could also talk about the highways. There are cuts, excuses and delays since the arrival of Mariano Rajoy to the Government, with an absolute majority of the People's Party here and in Spain until a year ago. And you look the other way. They told us in the catechism that, when they were giving us a kiss, we had to put on the other cheek. And you call this "creating a commission," Mr. Núñez Feijóo. What evaluation does the Government of Spain deserve from you in terms of infrastructure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u29	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Leicega, I hope your deep knowledge of catechism does not cause you any trouble in your parliamentary group. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Leicega, tell me about the transfer of the highway and the AVE. Well, with pleasure... look, Your Honor, we had an agreement, and I'm going to comply with that agreement. We had an agreement to request the Ministry to transfer the motorway. We had an agreement to set up a committee so that Galicia, logically, would have voice and vote in the enlargements and reforms of the motorway. And we had an agreement — that you were unable to achieve — that Galicia had stopped paying the charges of state ownership on a road of state ownership. So I'm not breaking the deal, Mr. Leicega. I don't know if you're gonna break it or not. But when he talks to me about coherences or inconsistencies, man, something we've really advanced. Look, Mr. Leicega, when you were a Member in 2007 voted against the transfer of the motorway. We, who were in opposition, were requesting the transfer of the motorway to the Government of Spain. You and the BNG voted against. What exactly is the coherence of the Socialist Parliamentary Group? Secondly, when you were in the Government they signed an agreement with Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez fantastic for the Government. [[Murmurs.]] It consisted of the Government of Galicia paying 50% of the elimination of fees on the Rande Bridge and the Barcala Bridge for forty-two years. Ask yourself what I thought when I was in the opposition. Well, he said the business was ruinous and it compromised the spending of ten legislates. That's exactly what I'm saying right now, the business for Galicia is ruinous and it's compromising Galicia's paying 50% of the lifting of the beach until the year 2043. He is here in the press, Your Honor: "He criticized the ruinous business of the Union to free Rande and Barcala." He's here. You agreed not only not to transfer the highway but also to agree that a highway of state ownership had been financed from funds from the neighbours of Galicia. Mr. Leicega, if we are able to save Galicia EUR 180 million until the year 2043 and that these EUR 180 million will pay them to the Government of Spain because it says that the highway is state-owned, we did the best business on the highway during this legislation. The best, Mr. Leicega! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] By the way, Your Honor, I thank you for telling me about AVE, because, in fact, that of "you're not in" had a huge impact on the theme of AVE: a year without government, a year without changes, a year without hiring, a year without being able to do anything about AVE. Yes, Mr. Leicega, we remember very well. [[Murmurs.]] He says Galicia has little weight in state infrastructure. Well, you know as much as I do that Galicia has 11% of Spain's total budget. When you were ruling, they thought 8% was the maximum we could take. Now we're taking 11%. We are the second autonomous community in higher per capita investment in Spain: we have 67% more investment by Greek than the rest of Spain. I mean, all the autonomous communities would like to have the investment per person who has Galicia, and it seems little to you. Mr. Leicega, when I was in the opposition and when I'm in the government I have no more commitments than Galicia. Unfortunately, when the Socialist Party is in opposition and when it is in government it has no more commitments than the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Leicega's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u32	Yes, as you well know, Mr. Touriño's government has made a global approach to transfers which was far beyond your request. And the expansion of the self-government that you have set forth in the Statute, refusing to cooperate in the reform of that Statute that broadened the self-government. You can't come here to teach us self-government lessons. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And regarding AP-9, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, I wonder what the conversations of that follow-up commission will be like: "Hey, Alberto, I'm very worried about you. To the Basques and the Catalans we already gave them some highways. But, man!, now also Galicia? Don't do this to us." "Nothing, quiet, Iñigo, you are already in Madrid to stop it. You know, you have to give some meat to your opinion. You understand me." I can't imagine any other kind of dialogue on that committee in view of the results. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] And if, indeed, the General Administration of the State is aware of the situation, it contributes something to the reduction of fees, but it enters 20 million last year as a corporation tax paid by the AP-9 concessionaire, that is, paid by all users of that infrastructure. At least we have an amount there to claim that, projected to the end of the concession — which, by the way, made it a Government of the People's Party when it was almost finished the previous one — means hundreds of millions of euros that we are going to pay for the Greeks and that they enter the general administration of the state. But, look, in the AVE we can talk about deadlines. The Confederation of Enterprises of Lugo repudiates the encouragement that has expired the environmental declaration and the AVE to Lugo can be delayed for two years. Listen to the Confederation of Entrepreneurs of Pontevedra and the Circle of Entrepreneurs of Vigo. There is a cry about the disinterest of Mariano Rajoy's Government for the infrastructures in Galicia. And, look, where there are papers, they shut up beards. I'm going to show you the real investment annex to the state's general budgets by 2017. Project 2075 — Variant of Ourense — when is the end scheduled? In 2024. Project 2007 — high-speed line to Galicia, Olmedo-Lubián-Ourense — when are you planning to finish? No. 2024. These are the general budgets of the State of 2017. These are the papers, that's what the Ministry tells us. What the Ministry tells us is that until 2024 AVE will not reach Ourense! Ourense, not the rest of Galicia! So, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, if there are any fund problems, I have to tell you that, with the commissions paid in Genoa and that they fed the box "b" by which you have to declare the president of the Government, how many kilometers of AVE could we have done? What could have been the decrease in AP-9's peas? [[Applause]] We could have rescued AP-9. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u34	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, let us call together the other groups of Parliament on a special parliamentary commission on infrastructures which, within two months, will allow us to draw up a timetable, lines of action, agree on the set of state claims, and make a common front, since you are alone in front of your government... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u36	...it's not able to take Mariano Rajoy off the necessary commitments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u38	Let's do this and serve Galician interests.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u39	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u40	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u41	Shut up. Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u42	Besides you know catechism, you're a great monologuer. Now you can speak to the Minister of Development from your seat. Well, Mr. Leicega, we're more and more surprised. And besides, I see him happy. And if you're happy, so are we. [[Laughter]] Look, Mr Leicega, the Journal of Sessions is the only thing this Parliament understands. In the Journal of Sessions, in 2007, you voted against requesting the transfer of the highway, like the BNG. It's good, because the neighbors on the Death Coast who are here today didn't even know that, because they don't tell them, you know? They don't tell you that. From the BNG, which is a nationalist party par excellence, and from you, that I am a party that wants to be the good of Galicia, when we were in the opposition and we were asking for the transfer of the highway, the vote was "no" Yes, I would ask it otherwise, Mr. Leicega, don't make me laugh, Mr. Leicega. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Don't make me laugh! [[Murmurs.]] Don't make me laugh, Mr. Leicega! [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Leicega, you know that in order to make AVE we have to have the 2017 approved budget. Are you going to allow the budget for the Greek VAS to be approved in time and form? They say we have to talk to the PNV. Look, Mr. Leicega, now that you have a major role in Madrid, why don't we talk to the six PSdEG-PSOE Members? I promise. Do you commit to agreeing with the six Members who have the PSdeG-PSOE in Madrid? I commit myself, Your Honor, to trying to change the PNV by the Socialist Party of Galicia. What do you think, Mr. Leicega? And so we solve all the problems that you now move me. [[Murmurs.]] I see there are some Members who say yes. All right, ladies and gentlemen, we're waiting for that proposal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Leicega, I understand you have doubts about the deadlines for AVE, I understand that. Look, I had them, too. When I was in the opposition, the Socialist Party told us that the AVE arrived in 2010. Then you, as spokesperson for your group, were insistently saying that the AVE would arrive in 2012. Then the minister arrived, a little bit more sensible, and told us that AVE would arrive in 2015. For neither 2010 nor 2012 nor 2015. I assume the government's delay of three quarters: at the end of the year 2019. And if not, Your Honor, don't worry that I'll be the first to accept that the deadline has not been met with Galicia. But, Mr. Leicega, by giving deadlines, you have the most powerful mayor in the country, who said — he read — "Abel Caballero announces high speed in Galicia for 1993" As you can imagine, no one believes the Socialist Party when he talks about deadlines. [[Laughter]] I'm interested in Galicia creating me when I talk about deadlines. And so, Your Honor, as I depend only on the vote of the Greeks, I have no doubt that, in the same way as all the governments of Spain told us not to cross the highway, we ask everyone. To the Socialist Party, which you did not dare, we asked for; and also to the PP. And if they don't transfer it, they'll be breaking an election promise made by the Galician People's Party in Galicia. I have two possibilities: either fulfill the electoral program with which I presented myself to the elections or follow the dictates of my party in Madrid. I don't have any doubt: I'm going to run my election program. I don't know why you criticize me for running the electoral program. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Leicega, I'm going to make you a confidence, since you've made me two — a great catechism connoisseur. Look, Mr. Leicega, now that you have recovered Pedro Sánchez, is there any chance that they will recover Magdalena Álvarez as Minister of Development?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u44	Please, Mr. Leicega, step in to make it [...].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u45	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u46	Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by Don Luis Villares Naveira, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of En Marea, on the interests defended by the Government of Galicia in the decisions relating to transcendent themes for Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. First of all, I greet the workers and the workers of Ferroatlantics who accompany us today, on a subject that concerns us as we care about the rest of the population, except the People's Party. The subjects we wanted to bring today were two, which have been partially exposed by other opposition groups, because they are subjects that concern the whole of our country. First of all, in relation to a political position which was unanimous in this Parliament, which was unanimous in this country and which, as you said, was an electoral commitment already in 2009 of the People's Party, the transfer from AP-9 to Galicia. The Parliamentary Group of En Marea wanted, in addition to the transfer to Galicia, that it was also the ransom for the AP-9 public, understanding that the central message is the placing of public resources in the service of citizenship, of the whole of citizenship, not only the transfer. But what did you guys do? As I am a single party, a party that, as you say many times, say the same thing throughout the state and do the same thing throughout the state, even though they approve something here, soon comes the minister to amend them flat, telling them that there will be no transfer of any kind, because whoever commands is Madrid. We don't know if the boss is López Madrid better, do we? But, in any case, what you see is that you behave not as the president of a country that has the mandate, in addition, of the Galician Parliament, but as a delegate of the Government, or rather as a delegate of the party. Because all he does is replicate the slogans sent by the Minister of Development in this case. We wanted to finally know what your position is going to be, whether it's going to be praying to what they say from Madrid or actually defending the interests of our country expressed by this House, which are not just a follow-up commission but something else: achieving the transfer of competences and, as far as we are concerned, also transfer to the public. But another topic that deals with us — and we are very busy — is the topic of Ferroatlantics. And then we don't know if it's Madrid, López Madrid or Villar Mir, if it's the money that fills them with the illegal financing of their party, something that you can't ignore because it's the state leader of the People's Party and the illegal financing of the People's Party was not produced in the People's Party of Madrid, but in the whole People's Party. And as you say I'm a party that says and does the same throughout the state, we actually say that they will also do the same in relation to illegal funding and therefore the favors they ask on one side will happen on the other. Because we suppose you won't get your attention. To the rest of the population if you call us to the attention that someone, a company, who almost finances with a million euros the party will want something in return; otherwise, I wouldn't make that free donation. Surely you don't draw attention to them. Ferroatlantic is a priority for us, because it is a priority the defence of general interest and the defence of jobs; a general interest that has led to link hydroelectric production with ferro-aleration, which does not come from 1993, comes from an already historical question: the linkage between the sacrifice which I subjected to for the district the construction of the hydro-electric power plants themselves and the fero-aleration industry, with more than two hundred killed by silicosis in the construction of tunnels that also led to the construction of hydro-electric reservoirs, and which gave rise to that link which was intended to be perpetual and which was reflected in 1993. There was a general interest in keeping it, which was to compensate the region, not only environmentally, but socially, for all those events and that now a company wants to destroy. And I want to erase it for a matter that has nothing to do with the general interest. It has to do with the particular interest of a company and its party, which in return receives illegal funding. And the one who doesn't care about anything — and I'm going to end it — what I have to say the Greek Government itself has several facts that happened after these months. First of all, in relation to Nasdaq, where the company had already communicated what the whole plan of the operation was regardless of what the Government of Greece had said. And that the company doesn't care anything — and I end it — about what it says...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u48	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u49	...the German Government demonstrates that today, today, it appears in the Official Gazette of the Register of Goods — today, May 24, the registration of the company secreted to ferro-aleration in relation to hydroelectric production. The company doesn't care about the legality of what you're talking about. He doesn't care about anything, and I'll explain why he doesn't care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u50	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see, Your Honor, that you, at the end of the day — because you should be at first — are the tenant of the parliamentary groups that have a role in this control session. First, because you don't have an agenda; second, because what you're trying to do is take advantage of the defence of the workers on the Death Coast; and also because you're trying to appropriate an initiative by this party to request the transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic. Look, Your Honor, after eight years and three absolute majority, you will understand that I have no more commitment than Galicia. You'll understand that the Greeks gave me everything that I am in politics. So I don't have to account for either Cerna or the United Left, nor the Atlantic Sea, nor the Open-ended Compostela, nor the Valencian Compromise, nor Mrs. Colau, nor all these things that you are subject to day and minute by minute. My commitment is Galicia, Mr. En Marea de Podemos. I have no other commitment. And that's why, as never, never, I'll pay the debt of gratitude... yes, isn't he the spokesperson for the Tides of Podemos? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u52	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u53	I hope so, ladies, because for now it was. And so I'd like to keep talking to him, if possible. [[Murmurs.]] But, look, Your Honor, about Ferroatlantics, who defends more, Tides or BNG? I just don't know exactly what the competition is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you know who defends Ferroatlantic? The Government of Galician Union. [[Applause]] The Government of Galician Union defends the workers of Cee, Dumbria and Soap. And so when you talk to me about... but don't you remember that there was a law to be respected? But have you lost your memory that we are in a rule of law and that we have to respect the law, and that the lawyers who are going to sign that report are independent and responsible for signing that report in law? You're sure the company committee will have the company's request next Friday. And the mayors of the Coast of Death have my commitment not to make any decisions without speaking again to the mayors of the Coast of Death. Why does it bother you that we talk to the company committee and the mayors of the Coast of Death? Is it possible that we can only speak to Members representing the minority of the country? Isn't most of the country legitimized to talk about the general interests of the country? Yes, Your Honor, we are entitled to speak of the country's general interests. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, in connection with the Highway of the Atlantic, if you had studied this matter, you would understand that the only government of the Galician Union that formally requested the transfer of the motorway was us — and here they passed governments of the PSOE and the BNG— we were. And the only government who said he's not willing to pay with the money of the Greeks at the expense of a state highway is us. If we can save 180 million euros... we have paid 60 million euros of money from the Greeks to facilitate Bipartite's commitment to the socialist government of Madrid. I said no. We won't pay any more fees on a highway than the government itself says it's state. To pay the fees to the Government, who says he owns it. [[Applause]] So let's keep working. I don't care what the Official Commercial Registry Bulletin says. I assure you that the important thing is what you sign for Galician Union, not what you say or what you say. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Villares' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u55	It's very eloquent that you don't care what the Official Mercantile Registry Bulletin says. He also doesn't care what the State's Official Gazette and the court rulings say. We know that. And we already know that you don't care, but thanks for the clarification, thanks for the clarification. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because, speaking of legality, the representation of workers and workers has asked the Administration for access to the file, which has not yet been granted to this day. The Industry Advisor knows that, too. Do you know or don't you know? He knows. You know they asked, you know you didn't give it to him. You know you told them you were going to give it to them, but you didn't give it to them. With which they can't access and can't neutralize that information that then, falsely, the company itself emits through a press release in a partial manner. So if you don't want to talk to the opposition Members, talk to the workers. And since they ask for access to the file, give them access to the file. Because, as the law also says, interested people will have access to the file. Do you consider that the workers and the workers of Ferroatlantics are not interested people? Do you think they're not interested enough to know what the future awaits them through a company that respects nothing? It doesn't respect legality, it doesn't, because registration actually means that the company itself will get what you're looking for. But of course they'll get it! They're gonna get it because they've been buying it a long time ago. They bought over 700,000 euros of illegal funding from their party. Of course, but the investigating judge... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u56	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u57	...of the National Audience. I don't say it in the Tide Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u58	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u59	It's not said by the Tide Group, neither with Podemos nor without Podemos. Of course you say you don't give an account. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u60	Silence! Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u61	He says you don't give an account.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u62	Quiet, please! The President shall answer. The President shall answer. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u63	You're talking about accountability and schedules. The agendas we know are the agendas of Bárcenas, whose papers have given rise to the whole monumental scandal we've known over the last few years. Yes, Mr. Rueda, yes, after these last few years. They're also talking about accountability. You don't give an account? You give accounts to those who fund their party, but it's normal. What is the general interest? The law also says that in order to modify the concession it is necessary to change the concept of general interest. What is the general interest of our country, the maintenance of jobs or return your favors illegally granted?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u64	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Villares, I think it's very clear what your moral restraint and legal formation is. But in the end, I think justice has won a lot and in Parliament we are losing a lot. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Look, I'm told by colleagues that there's a big sign from that company you're referring to as doing works in the Crown Deputies — you, who were close to the Crown, you can certainly see it. I have no doubt about the Government of the Crown Deputy, you seem so. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I understand the scarcity of your arguments. But I certainly don't have to worry about what you tell me. I'd have to worry if they tell me what they say about you. If they tell me what the Greeks say about you, I should worry. And if you tell me what your partymates say about you, I should worry. And that's why, Your Honor, I insist that, after eight years and three most, you will understand that the only occupation of the Greeks is, exclusively, including you. [[Murmurs.]] I am concerned that you may become a Member of Parliament and, above all, I am very concerned about what you were doing before you entered this Parliament. [[Applause]] I'm going to continue to represent the interests of the Greeks, the interests of the people who work in Dumbria, in Cee, the people who work in Soapón, the workers' committees, the UXT and the IGC. Not just on one side, Your Honor, on all sides. Because they're all Germans, and they have their opinion. You think a unionist of UXT and Labour Commissions, for wanting to talk about this, is a stateless woman, what do you think? Do you think that the Working Committees and UXTs are in no way worthy of respect for this Parliament? I do, Your Honor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No doubt about it, Mr. de Mareas de Pomières. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if you think I'll forget, since you've spoken timidly, of the AVE—and then you've begun to insult us, of course, why?—, no, I won't forget, Your Honor. I think Galicia needs to know that you voted against AVE to Galicia in the Senate. Yes, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] They voted against a motion by a socialist senator, the Socialist Party of Galicia, supported by the group that has an absolute majority in the Senate, the Popular Parliamentary Group, and voted against the AVE arriving in Galicia in 2019. What interests did the Welsh Senator of the Tides of Podemos defend in that vote? Isn't it true that the company committee is now going with more information? Now he knows that the Tides voted against the AVE arriving in Galicia in 2019, that the BNG voted against the transfer of the Atlantic Highway and that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party promised us that AVE would arrive in Galicia in 1993. [[Murmurs.]] Isn't it true, Your Honor, that this Greek man who speaks has a commitment not to lie to anyone, and much less to the workers who are worried?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u66	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u67	I'm not taking lessons from your workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u68	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u69	I'm going to accept the lesson of being with the workers, the mayors and the company committee. Of you, no. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Let's debate now in an accumulating manner... [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! We are now debating in an inclusive manner two non-legislative proposals, namely those contained in fifth and sixth place, which are the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Quiroga Díaz and Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact and economic losses caused by the frosts that occurred at the end of April 2017 to the wine sector of the different designations of origin in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the damage caused by the frost in the vineyard, on the night of 26 to 27 April 2017, in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense, mainly in areas of the designations of origin of Ribeiro, the Ribeira Sacra, Valdeorras and Monterrey
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u71	These proposals were amended by Parliamentary Group of En Marea and by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u72	Mr Quiroga, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, first of all, has the floor to make the non-legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u73	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the frosts that occurred in the last days of April have caused serious damage in the wine sector, mainly in Ribeiro, Ribeira Sacra, Monterrey and Valdeorras. After a month, we still have no official data on the real extent of this new disaster to the rural world, which has also been poured into the chestnuts, cereals and other types of crops in the country. We have to use the estimates of regulatory councils, sectoral organizations, walking visits, interviews with those affected, etc., to assess the impact, which, in any case, varies between 30% for the least affected, the least impacted areas, and 75% for those areas that have received a greater impact of this weather coverage. We are talking about losses by tens of millions of euros caused by frost in a sector with production and cultivation that in 2016 exceeded 41 million liters worth of 224 million euros, which places on the table the relevance and importance of this sector and the possible losses due to market maintenance. But it doesn't stay there, because we're also talking about the loss of strains — especially the newer ones — we're talking about the whole or partial loss of the crop, we're talking about reducing production, and these are some of the effects of this new catastrophe on the Greek field. In any case, and pending official evaluation, the wine sector is suffering this impact after a great effort to modernise itself, as it becomes competitive until it becomes an important socio-economic foundation of this country's structure. And not only that, but also flag and bow masks in foreign markets. Regardless of the nuances on the real impact, all groups must support this sector at the difficult time it is living. But this support which we must all give must be seen, must be noticed and must be reflected in measures, in papers, in laws, ultimately. They're not worth ads, they're not press headlines. We must pass it to the law, so we must make this sector viable in some way through legislation. This situation requires urgent action to alleviate this damage, and from our point of view it is taking too long. It is true that some measures are being announced from the Council — soft loans, refinancing of credits... That's right, there it is. An ordinary measure, which is the restructuring of vineyards, is also announced to insert it into this extraordinary situation. Let's see, when this measure comes out, if it really picks up the needs of the sector as a result of this impact so strong that it was frost. Ink rivers are also spoken of as insurance subsidies. But we've all come to find out that I'm an intelligence talking about the wine sector. Insurance doesn't bind, they don't collect, they don't fit the property, the property structure, or the productive reality of this country. So then we all see that really in this mechanism, which could cover a misfortune like the one that the wine growers have just suffered, we only talk about 20% at most, remaining the other 80% outside the measures that agricultural insurance can cover. We also saw how the Agrarian Council recently met, another important step. And all of this is fine, all of this is important, but they're clearly insufficient, very insufficient. They are insufficient and with a partial approach because they leave most of the wine growers aside. But even for those segments of viticulture for which they are thought, which would be the great properties, or the large or medium wine cellars, which are the ones that can somehow collect these measures, for these too are insufficient. Because I want to remember that two weeks ago, a non-legislative proposal by the People's Party was made here talking about tax and tax flexibility. And I wanted to ask where is this tax and tax flexibility here, because these wineries, this sector, are also crying for discounts, applause or suppression, well on social security quotas well on the self-employed. [[Applause]] And it would be necessary to speak to the best of others, in collaboration with local, state, autonomous administrations, etc., as can be the IBI for these cellars. So the catalogue of measures that are being announced is, from our point of view, still very little. And these measures, in any case, will not reach the vast majority of those affected, they are useless to that 80% of wine growers. Of the 10,000 affected by the four designations of origin, about 80%, are medium, small or self-consumption. So they stay out of this catalogue so much they hide in the media. And those wine growers, that 80%, no one in this House can believe they're going to ask for a credit or get a insurance. Those who produce 500.1,000.2,000 kilograms won't go on these roads; therefore, all these measures do not cease to be more than a media placebo to calm the sector but that actually does not meet the needs of viticulture and wine growers so strongly beaten. That's why, for these reasons and many others, we ask for direct economic aid as the only real way to reach, if you want to help, most of the wine growers. And be aware, in addition, that a few months ago they gave direct help to the same thing, exactly the same thing. It's called ice cream and a few months ago it was called rock. So here they're not going to have any argument, they have no argument, to deny these direct aids, they can't, unless they discredit themselves. And not just that. The president recently boasted, fooled himself, of being President of all the Greeks. And what you're doing, if it doesn't make any difference to those direct aids, is to make a distinction between first and second-degree Greeks. Because to see why the Germans of Sober collected direct help and the rest of the Greeks of Valdeorras, Monterrey, the Sacred Ribeira and Ribeiro have no right to such direct help. Let's get out here and explain that division between first-class citizens or Greeks and second-division Greeks. [[Applause]] So let's re-emphasize direct help. And you've done that we're not talking about amounts. The quantities, in such cases, to be treated with the sector at the corresponding table. But they can't deny it because they have no arguments, and they're going to have to give in. For these and other reasons, the Socialist Group presents the following proposals: One is to carry out a study that allows an urgent assessment — I reiterate that it has passed almost a month and the valuation is not done, although we understand that it is not a thing to run the crazy — an urgent and immediate assessment of the impact of the meteorological inclusions that have occurred in the last few days — here it would refer to when the non-law proposal was presented — and of the economic losses specifically caused to the members of the wine sector of the different designations of origin — which with the self-amendment that is introduced also covers the bumps and chestnuts within Galicia, as well as the cultivation of cereals, which are other of the crops strongly beaten. Secondly, to open an order of aid with sufficient budgeting — and this is where that direct aid that we are claiming, which we ask for — is directed at least to the members of the wine sector of the different denominations of origin to alleviate the damage and perform the relevant crop recovery work in those cases where it is still possible, that it should not be lost and we must try to recover it, although we all know that, if the plant is recovered, production will not be recovered to the same extent or in the same degree as if it did not suffer the impact of the frost. And then, as a third point — which is an amendment of addition that we include — we say that we have to make timely management with the agricultural insurance companies for their adaptation to the particularities of Greek property and production, mainly because everyone knows that this mechanism, which is hosting with different objectives many representatives of producers, and in particular the Government, is not adapted. So we have to make an effort to adapt agricultural insurance in the case of viticulture to the reality of the country, since, if not, we're talking about things that have nothing to do with that reality. For all these things, we put forward this non-law proposal, which we understand should achieve the support of all groups, as evidence for the sector that we are with them, that we support them, that we understand them, and that this sector, of what we both cascade as a mask of bow in foreign trade, in the best shops...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u75	...of the United States, etc., because it has a backbone, because the moment is very critical to them and is the subject of keeping the market and many other problems that circulate about this sector of viticulture. We mean we're going to accept...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u76	No, that's after. He's got a shift on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u77	Then we'll talk to En Marea, whom we thank for her implementations of our proposal. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u78	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. Thank you. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. On August 15, 2016, a storm with stones caused damage to the Sacred Ribeira, affecting considerably the vineyards of Doade, Sober, and Marcelle, in Monforte. With extreme speed, the Union approved direct aid amounting to EUR 500,000, plus EUR 100,000, to compensate for losses in the production of the affected wine growers who had not subscribed to any insurance policy, the situation in which most of them were found. And not only this, they also used the request for an "emergency zone" declaration, which, as you know, is the old "catastrophic zone"; all this is bombo and plate, with the media and propaganda at the top. Alberto Núñez Feijo highlighted at that moment the need to deal with the damage as quickly as possible so that producers and victims can continue their activity as soon as possible. As you know and have already been spoken here by the fellow PSOE, on April 26 and 27, an unexpected and intense frost made an act of presence in much of the territory of this motherland. It caused enormous damage to vines, chestnuts, beekeeping, walnuts, potatoes and cereals. Losses, it seems, fluctuate between 50% and 100%. The Counsellor, in front of the media, spoke the following words: "If you ask me for direct help, I think I am very clear — I said it from the first day: what is safe is not subsidisable." This Member does not understand how, in view of the seriousness of these frosts and the damage caused, the Counsellor indirectly states that it is a direct responsibility for producers because they have not subscribed to insurance. Go! Go! These statements are in themselves a ridicule and a ridicule for the farmers concerned and for all of us, because we are talking about a rural abandoned by the hand of God and men. Yes, here's the BNG catastrophe -- they'll be thinking about it. No, it's about the realism of the BNG. The Counsellor should resign or, if not, publicly apologize for these statements. What's going on? [[Applause]] That this time it didn't fit into elections and then rural problems are no longer paid attention. We can't just talk about damage to vineyards. The chestnut harvest, which has already been affected by the chestnut tree, has been reduced to zero on Bolo lands and other producing areas. There's a lot of newly burned chestnuts as if they're a blower if they're treated and nobility that's lost this year's harvest, they kick out the adults but the news is wounded in death. The apiculture, which already endured the pressure of the vestina and the excess of neurotoxic phytosanitaries that caused a patent biological weakness, saw suddenly paralysed the nectar harvest, because the main source of it, the oak, the Umbrian Erica, was completely burned along with the chestnut candle. He's only left for this year in the woods. The potato was also torn apart, and the cereal, though not much, and the counselor talking about agricultural insurance. In Monterrey, in the designation of origin, there are 17 people with agricultural insurance. What agriculture and what countryside does the Counsellor speak to us about? Do you have your feet on the ground? We don't think so. We're not talking about a ploughing rural, no, we're talking about a rural that has some of these crops as a complement to the scarce and small agricultural incomes that survive in villages we don't know very well yet why, but it's there keeping a land alive if it's eucalyptus or desertification or, at best, it's bought low price by new fortunes that are repeating accumulations of land for intensive farms. We're talking about small family incomes for honey, chestnuts, wine, nuts... tax-free, and that in legal law there are no but those that are real; that a real government will have to look in some way and give it a letter of existence, because it's part of this unreal economy that resembles quiet subsistence and resistance rather than something else. But it exists, it is there, and the frosts had no contemplation. No one of that board has had to take into consideration what farmers and agricultural organizations have been saying for years or years: that they either adapt agricultural insurance to the characteristics of our country's property and agricultural activity or that they are no use to us for not responding to our agricultural productive reality, for being too expensive and for having unreasonable coverage. Therefore, in order to minimize the effects of these extemporaneous frosts, it will be necessary for the Legislative Council for Real Rural and to consider the wine, chestnut, honey, potato, partially or wholly affected, because we have producers there in full performance and with full dedication and main or exclusive economic activity. Of course you do! Companies? Of course you do! But there are other people who own and cultivate small areas with those who earn additional income from their family economies and who make and complement the agricultural fabric of this our real rural environment. And those people exist too. And the two sectors, the two population vectors, have the right to be publicly compensated, because this ice-affected population sector is what keeps the human presence in many areas of our territory and does not enter into those indirect insurance aid formalities, replantings, or gait rags. Well, just as the assessment of real damage and the possible partial recovery of some crops requires a more generous period of time to be made with the necessary rigour, we also believe that this initiative, made in a hurry to the magnitude of the disaster and the anguish of the sectors concerned, must be rejected, at least in its spirit and complete its resolution. That's why we incorporated other crops, besides wine, such as chestnut, walnut, cereal, beekeeping and all that, having economic value, was damaged by frost. For all the above, it will be necessary to include, consent and compromise the resolution of this non-law proposal. And I suppose we'll have to talk to the other non-law proposition, and we'll have to negotiate, agree and agree, for the benefit of the affected sectors. From here, the BNG proposes a point that would be a serious and prolonged assessment — at least one month — to contemplate the possible full or partial recovery of some crops; open lines of direct aid by area or kilograms of fruit affected; to look at these aid all the producers concerned, all the producers affected!; establish a negotiation with agricultural insurance companies to adapt to the realities of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u80	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Rodríguez Estévez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u81	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Last April 27 and 28, the frosts took over much of the wine production from all over the province of Ourense. Today, the productive tissue that moves around the grapes and wine of the four designations of origin of the provinces of Ourense and Lugo covers about 6,000 hectares of land and reaches more than 10,000 producers and producers, more than 270 wine cellars and more than 50 municipalities. We are talking about a sector that leaves approximately EUR 88 million in the provinces of Ourense and Lugo — provinces, by the way, which today occupy the ranks of all socio-economic indicators, both of Galicia and the rest of the Spanish state. "What is secure is not subsidisable," tremendous exercise of irresponsibility which has released the lady councillor in full legislating of the rural environment, tremendous prepotency, no duties, Counsellor. You must ask forgiveness, and I follow the words of the fellow Mini that you must resign. What was safe was subsidisable in 2016 in that order of September 19, whereby the regulatory aid was established for the winegrowers of the Sacred River affected by the stone? What was safe wasn't subsidisable in 2015 after the stone that swept out the wine-growing areas of the Bibei, the Sacred Ribeira and the street council in Valdeorras? Are even years only subsidisable or only eligible in electoral periods? That's what it is, no less. In election periods you're subsidizing. The demands that exist are essential for a strategic sector for the provinces of Lugo and Ourense, as is the wine vineyard. We cannot afford to paralyze a sector after the damage suffered by the frosts of April. They urge the Central Government to declare as an emergency zone, to give direct aid — if, directly, as they did last year to alleviate the damage — they forgive the social security contributions of the affected professionals, give credit lines without interest and negotiate the conditions of agricultural insurance. The Rural Middle Council must already work on adapting agricultural insurance to the Greek reality. They work for agricultural insurance to adapt to the reality of Greece, as today's policies are no use at all. The test of that is the low acceptance they have. Many wine growers and wine growers, when they have small areas of vineyard and little production, they don't hire these insurances because they're very expensive. And those who do know that coverage won't cover them with a frost or a stone. Writing a policy is expensive and compensation does not cover production costs. In addition, they make sure all the plots you have entered in the vineyard register, something understandable on large surfaces, as can happen in the rest of the state, but absurd in a structure of the minifundist land, like that of Galicia. We need agrarian insurance adapted to the Greek vineyard. And they now have an obligation to compensate for damages that could be covered if the Administration had done its duties with regard to insurance years ago. What I'm going to read now is written in italics: "The men and women we dedicate ourselves to the wine world we want to live from viticulture in our villages and in our comarcas. We have been encouraged, in collaboration with another group of wine growers and wine growers, wine cellars, people from all over the province, agricultural organizations, Glaga Rural Federation, Galician Labour Union and Agricultural Unions, several actions; among them, technical talks to try to alleviate the damage to crops, campaigns to collect signatures to support the affected and open assemblies in which mobilizations are agreed. After conversations, meetings, reflections, and analysis, we decided that the signatures collected can be used to boost the actions we have outlined below. We regret — it has been quite a few days since the frosts — the inoperation and passivity that the Administration is showing with Ourense wine growers and wine growers, specifically the Rural Council, that today did not even have the deference of receiving the sector. We ask that, because of exceptional weather conditions, Junta urges the Government of Spain to make the emergency zone declaration. These aid will partly cover the necessary work of recovery and maintenance of the vineyards affected so as not to abandon the farms. We ask for forgiveness, not moratorium or extension, but forgiveness, in the quotas for the Social Security of self-employed and self-employed workers for a period not less than six months; that the Galician Union, through the Igape, make available to the affected and affected credit lines at no cost of processing; that the Galician Union initiates the opening of negotiating tables with the sector and insurance companies to make possible the existence of a real insurance offer. These agreed and debated measures, which we believe must be carried out, are real measures which have already been implemented in other areas and which can be carried out politically. We remember that it's about helping a sector, seriously affected people who need more than ever these aids, help that are essential for the survival and preservation of an identity, of a landscape and of its people, people who could stop being fixed in rural areas after these events. We've been reading in the newspapers of these last few days different articles that speak of the great calamity that has occurred in the vineyard of Lucinse and Orensan. There's a lot of talk about help. There has never been the slightest help for the world of viticulture. In the past, many Welshmen and Welshmen went out to various parts of the world and no longer returned to the village, leaving their children and daughters abroad. You don't see the future in the field, and that's how it starts to rub a culture, a way of life in the countryside, and a way of understanding this one. Now it's up to the Administration to reach the shoulder." And to finish, they thank everyone present for their assistance and say that this fight that has just begun will continue until their demands are heard. And they announce more mobilizations. This is the manifesto that was read yesterday at the end of the mass demonstration that went along the streets of Ourense. More than 1,500 farmers and farmers affected from all over Ourense and southern Lugo support this demonstration. This is how they feel and this is how we feel. From En Marea, we have expressed our commitment to continue alongside the wine cellars and producers in this struggle until the Union and the Government of the State meet their demands. As for the non-legislative proposals of the Socialist Party and the Bloc, of course we share them. And we withdrew Amendment No. 3, where we were trying to propose that the Agrarian Council meet urgently. This has already been done I think last Friday, so we removed that. And of the rest of the amendments, I think we've talked about more than that. I hope that, for the sake of a sector, the People's Party will be aware and that it will support producers and producers, wine cellars, in a strategic sector for our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u82	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u83	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating in a cumulative way two non-legislative proposals tabled by the Socialist Party and the Bloc concerning the damage caused in the vineyards of the designations of origin from inside Galicia by the frosts of the evenings of 27 and 28 April. Not even a month ago, this is important to the debate. We have already heard in the debate that the Union does not support wine growers, that we do not take any kind of measures, that we are unable to see the ruin of the wine sector, even yesterday it was said in the press that the wine sector is totally destitute by the Union, totally destitute. Look, ladies and gentlemen, my parliamentary group and the government we support are working rigorously for all wine growers and other people affected by frost. From the very first moment, we've been pushing different lines of action precisely to try to alleviate the effects of those frosts. [[Applause]] Look, nothing better than talking about facts. Let's talk about facts and actions that have been done in less than a month. The first thing to do when a phenomenon of this kind happens is to make an assessment of damage, we have to know the damage that happens. Mr. Quiroga says, "We still have no official data." Look — I think you're a winegrower — the strains, when you take them to the frost, they sprout and they can bring wine. How are we going to do that evaluation and how are we going to give accurate loss data if they're still kicking off the strains? So we have to do that evaluation, of course. And, as Mr. Rivas says very well, it's not yet time to accurately determine the damage, that there is and nobody denies it. We, the parliamentary group, this spokesperson and the advisor, have visited all the affected areas and there are damage, of course. Now, we have to see what those damage are. As for the evaluation, the week after the technical frosts of the Council, in collaboration with the regulatory councils of the names of affected origin, they did a first evaluation. The official data are — which we have —: Monterrey, 90% of the area affected — we will see the final damage—; Valdeorras, we are talking about between 60% and 70% of the land affected by ice; Ribeiro, 30%; Ribeira Sacra, 20%; although there are areas, for example, in Beade, in Ribeiro, where the affect is 90% of the territory. We're talking about stockings. This data cannot yet be considered definitive data. It will not be the final losses of the grapes in the harvest, because they will depend — and this is important, ladies and gentlemen — on the good doing of the farmer, the evolution of plant and climate. So I already know there's in this part of the bench a lot of livestock, but also in this part of the bench there's a lot of wine growers and people who work in the countryside who try to get their businesses forward in the countryside, eh! Speaking of the other important leg of this issue, it was understood that it was important and vital to advise wine growers to carry out their work at rest. Look, the facts, ladies and gentlemen: information talks by technical staff in the different designations of origin affected; Evega, the next day of the frosting, posted on her website technical recommendations to do the rest jobs properly; Evega, on May 7, called for a day of open doors to inform the winegrowers about the rest jobs — 70 affected winegrowers were there seeing how the work was done. He's doing this first damage assessment, the Council... by the way, on resignation, I have to say here that the advisor always fights for all the wine growers, farmers and farmers in this country, and he's doing an exceptional job. [[Applause]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing that has been done in connection with the aid was to say that this is a matter that affects more autonomous communities and that, therefore, we had to work in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture. On 9 May, the councillor transferred the ice cream problem in Madrid to the Advisory Council on Agricultural Policy for Community Affairs, and it was already mentioned in the Ministry that measures had to be taken to try to alleviate and mitigate the damage caused. On the other hand, we, our parliamentary group, on May 5, presented a non-law proposal — we hope a little more than you — with nine measures supporting wine growers, very powerful measures, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Quiroga, I would ask you to read that proposal not by law. And I hope you vote in favour, because some of the things you asked for here are also in that non-law proposition; among other things, payments to Social Security. For his part, the advisor, as he said, coordinated with the Ministry and we started working on the possible package of measures own to the Council and the Council of Galicia. Look again: the Board of Trustees, on May 10, approved a line of support promoted by economic, employment and industry councils — through the Igape — and the Rural Environment, which will allow interest rates to be repaid and assist in the instrumentation of the guarantees required by the banking institutions. This line will also allow you to mobilise 10 million euros. What are we talking about here? First of all, that to all those people who have loans for the financing of circulating or refinancing of liabilities, which is an important issue, the kind of interest will be 0%. But besides, if they need money now again because they have a problem and we have to give them liquidity, mutual-guarantee societies and Igape are going to come down against banks so that they can be given that money. We're talking about the bonus of the financial expenditure, and the possibility of going down a hundred percent. If they don't seem like good measures, I tell them they're very important measures, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] It's also working on a line of conversion and restructuring of vineyards, with an amount of EUR 1,400,000. Mr. Quiroga, I'm also making it clear that this year, in the scoring criteria of that line, if you're going to take over the replantation on those farms that have suffered an adverse weather phenomenon in the last year. So I'm telling you yes, which is specifically for this problem. And, look, within the work done these weeks by the Council, we have to highlight, of course, the concern shown in relation to the few farms that are insured. It's true that we have a problem, it's true that many of our wine growers' insurance isn't appropriate for them, and we have to analyze why. Once again: on May 11, Belén do Campo, the Director General, has already held a working meeting with the Director General of the State Agricultural Insurance Entity - Ensea -, Agri-insurance and technicians of the Council and of the designations of origin concerned. There it was agreed to convene the Territorial Committee on Agricultural Insurance — which, by the way, had not been convened for two years and the trade unions could call it, but they did not agree until the ice was reached —; to speed up the expertise in the affected areas so that those who have insurance contracts can charge the compensation as soon as possible — it is also being done — and to offer information talks. More: May 19 has already called the working group of the Territorial Committee on Agricultural Insurance, in which the whole sector is located, also agricultural organisations. More: May 12th, the call for aid for the promotion of agricultural insurance contracts in 2017, with EUR 4.7 million, 11% more than in the previous order. By the way, Mr Rivas, I remind you that your group has proposed in the debate on amendments to the budgets this year a reduction in the amount intended to subsidise the premium on agricultural insurance of EUR 500,000. Did it look like it was a lot to you? [[Murmurs.]] I'm going to finish. Look, we're not going to support the PSOE's PNL because, as Mr Quiroga said, first and second citizens, look, Mr Quiroga, you're talking about wine growers of the designations of origin. Do you know what percentage of wine growers — those who say you are small — aren't embraced by the designation of origin? What's wrong? Leave them out? I say... But we are going to vote in favour of, of course, the non-law proposition of the Block in its original drafting, because contacts with the sector have already been carried out, since the advisor and the technicians and representatives of the Council have visited the different denominations of origin, and therefore we will continue to do so. As for assessing the damage suffered by the farms, a first assessment has already been made, and we will continue to make that assessment, as you well said. And instead of opening aid lines to support the farms affected, in the path that we have marked tax reductions and, if you can, with Social Security, aid for financing through subsidies of the types of interest and replantation aid that prioritize the areas affected by frost, we will also follow that path. I have already finished, and, above all, Mr Quiroga, I have already ended by appealing to all parliamentary groups to deal with this subject with the necessary caution and caution on the damage caused, because an excessively alarmist vision will, without any doubt, have very negative effects on the markets of our wines, very negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u84	Thank you, Mr. González Vázquez. Groups authors of the proposals. First of all, by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u85	Let's see, Mr. González, I think we made it clear that there were things being done, and that there are things being done right. And then we shaded that they're clearly insufficient and very partial. If you don't, check out the video of my speech and see it, we've made it very clear. "Out of the regulatory councils..." Indeed, on the Sacred River almost 50%. But that's why we accept the amendment of En Marea, so they won't stay, of course. You're not perfect, what we're going to do to you, but you recognize when you can implement things and that's why we accept it and look very good. Don't confuse realism with catastrophe, we're already tired of that slaughter. As far as facts are concerned, I'm going to tell you that we've already told you that there are things that are good, but insufficient and very partial. Talks? Man, let's hope the talk isn't like that of the potato, because then what happens and the producers complain that there was no adequate information. On the subject of credits, I think it is quite clear that the appropriations do not apply to 80% of the wine growers in this country. They don't adapt, they won't ask for any credit or insurance. [[Applause]] It's obvious, and you know it and know it, in addition. And we're grateful that they have sensitivity to the topic of the new line that will emerge from the restructuring of vineyards to adapt it to the circumstances of wine growers damaged by this ice-creaming process. But, look, they don't have any arguments to avoid direct help. This doesn't stop, like other things. I see that in fiscal flexibility if you can move forward. They understand it's very important. We agree. On the subject of insurance we also agree; I see that they understand the need. With this requirement of 10% of the holding, there is no minimum payment on the product. And then, well. Ah, direct help. Look, we're going to continue to claim those direct aids because, among other things, we can't afford a country and a president who leads you to distinguish your citizens depending on whether it's an election year or not. Mr. González, give your head from that bench what you want, here's the bulletin, the Dog, where those aids came out. There is no right for citizens to discriminate against others from the same country, depending on whether it's an election year or not. And that's how we're going to ask for support from the Valador or anyone who needs to avoid this discrimination on the part of German citizens depending on whether there's an election year or no election year. And besides, with the collaboration... I told you in the first intervention that we're not talking about amounts, as the representatives of the sector say. What we want is for you to feel with them, they've already done it at the Agrarian Council, and they're paying a few amounts. We are not talking about quantities, but for the sake of democratic hygiene in this country, for equal treatment for citizens in this country — because they are not less the people of Monterrey or Valdeorras than the people of Sober — they have to receive such direct help. That's a point that's non-negotiable. I reiterate that we are not talking about amounts, that is to say to the producers, we are not in that policy of maximums. But those aids you re-think what they mean to people, to wine growers. And you, Mr. González, who is from the sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u87	...think how you would feel if you were to be helped directly by the side and not by yourself. They have no arguments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u89	...to answer that. You must recapitulate — I hope you recapitulate — and you will find...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u90	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u91	...all collaboration on our part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u92	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, agricultural insurance: "In order to receive compensation, you have to have at least 10% of the property affected." In our Galicia, with the dispersion of farms... the agricultural policies are really designed for large land extensions, and for other countries — for Castle, possibly, or for Andalusia — for latifondos. This isn't a reality right now, and we hope it won't be. Ratings are less than half the market price, and sometimes a third if the market price rises. The Council speaks of 10 million in aid for wine growers and wine-growers, especially in refinancing of appropriations — if there are — the zero interest, of course. We're going around with the banks again! And the little ones that make up that fabric that provides grapes, that fabric that provides chestnuts to the market, that tissue that provides nuts, that fabric that provides products...? That's what? What do we do with them? Do we ignore them? Of course, it's true that all these aids do not include self-consumption or non-professional exploitation. But that is a reality we have in this country, and our obligation as parliamentarians — and the obligation of the Government — is to legislate, us and you; and the Government, to rule for all and bring reality here. And the reality is this, they don't have the slightest doubt. This is the reality, this is the country I see every day, because I come from him to here... No, no, I see, and I see the same country as you, what happens is that there are different eyes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, eyes are interested and eyes are not interested. Of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The homepage. We're going around with the same thing. I dial a phone number and I know: if you want to, mark one, if you want to... and I hang up the phone! And the website is the same. Look, until a year and I peaked I didn't have internet coverage, I didn't have it!, and I live in a nearby countryside. I didn't have it, and I used those little pins and those stories that cost me an eye on my face; and I can afford it, but there are those who don't. As for the trust of these generic proposals, we don't trust ourselves, and the peasants neither, because in Oimbra and Monterrey they're still waiting for the four-year-olds' subsidies, who haven't charged them yet. This is the reality and this is the seriousness of the Council, and the seriousness with which the Counselor lady comes out to say a lot of things, very serious and very overpowering, but which are not true. He's talking about another country. Because, of course, it's easy for you to support this: establish contacts with the sector... of course, this was made of urgency. Yes, I recognized you here. But the central discussion is in direct aid, because with direct assistance it is the only way that the system is fair and that it reaches everyone, the big and the small. Then do it! If the million of all this is in direct aid! You deny, and we, as we mistrust -- they know that of "the heated cat, cold water," -- we want them to commit themselves to direct help, and then we talk about other things.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u94	Do you accept the amendment of In Marea? Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u95	Yes, yes, I accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u96	Thank you. All right. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mr. Rivas. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and two other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government, as well as the action to be taken in relation to the political and social situation in Venezuela, and in particular that of the people of Galicia emigrants in that country
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u97	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Bloc of Wales, the Parliamentary Group on the Environment and the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u98	To formulate the proposal has the floor Mr. Díaz Villosa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning to the assistants who accompany us today from the stage. I can only say at first that a rich people like Venezuela, full of friendly and welcoming people — and well-known by the Greeks — live now doomed to hunger, lack of medicine and the absolute shortage of the most indispensable commodities; where violence and lack of security makes people live in fear. That is why the Socialists in the General Courts and in this House cannot and do not want to remain impatient about the dramatic situation in Venezuela. We want the Venezuelans and all the Greeks living there what we want, a social and democratic rule of law. Galicia has and must have a strengthened commitment to Venezuela. Of the 200,000 Spaniards living there, 45,000 are Welsh and Welsh, but those who could have escaped from Venezuela's current situation. The Annual Report of Amnesty International, Venezuela 2016-2017, is particularly worrisome. According to this report, the Government has declared the state of emergency, and it has been extended four times. Most people suspected of being responsible for crimes of international law and human rights violations committed during the protests since 2014 have not yet appeared before the courts. Violence and upheaval continue in prisons. Most of the judgments and orders on Venezuela issued by the Inter-American Court of Human Rights have not yet been complied with at the end of 2016. The Amnesty Report continues to point out that food and medicine shortages have intensified alarmingly, which has triggered protests throughout the country. The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has on several occasions stated that several special rapporteurs had difficulty visiting the country because the Government did not grant them the necessary permits. And contrary to international human rights standards, civilians are being tried before military courts. The police refused and refused to comply with the order of release issued by the courts. The withdrawal of the country from the Inter-American Court of Human Rights jurisdiction, which has been effective since 2013, has continued to deprive the victims of human rights violations and their families of access to justice, truth and reparation. According to the Venezuelan Observatory of Social Conflict, approximately 600 demonstrations were recorded per month during 2016, but most of these demonstrations were related to demands for economic, social, cultural rights, and, in particular, access to food, health and housing. He continued to jail people who were politically opposed to the Government. According to the Venezuelan Criminal Forum, more than a hundred people were withdrawn for political reasons. The UN Human Rights Committee has expressed concern about reports of abuses committed by the Army against even indigenous peoples established in Guajira, Zulia State, and on the border with Colombia. These are some of the dramatic conclusions of the report submitted by Amnesty International. In this difficult political, social and economic context, since the beginning of 2016, the Venezuelan Government is not responding to payments to be received by the retired Spanish pensioners returned from Venezuela, considering this collective around 3,500 returned Greeks; monthly payments to be paid by the Government of Venezuela by virtue of, or less, the corresponding bilateral agreement between Spain and Venezuela already signed in relation to Social Security in 1988. On the assumption that many of our return emigrants in Venezuela may already be suffering from obviously serious situations, and cannot access social emergency services in addition to them, or when they see the minimal complements to Social Security removed. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has also tabled in this House, in the Commission 1st, a question precisely for the Government of Greece to put an end to this problem arising from not receiving pensions for almost a year and a half ago, which is preventing — as pensioners — from accessing social aid, or from having a pension in Spain, on the other hand, from withdrawing them from the Spanish Social Security the supplement of minimums; on the other hand, it is being rebaptised and annulled by different judgments in Galicia, on the part of the High Court of Justice, on the other hand, as well as certain judgments already by the High Court of Justice in Asturias. The situation of the Greeks living in Venezuela is, logically, suffering the situation described. This is how we are faced with a serious deterioration in the rule of law in the Republic of Venezuela. And this process came to a critical situation on Wednesday, March 29, when the Venezuelan Supreme Court assumed the competences of the National Assembly, limiting immunity to its Members and gaining extraordinary powers in criminal, military, economic, social, political and civil matters. This attempt to abolish the most basic of the rules of a democratic state with regard to the law was rectified by international pressure, which led many countries and agencies to talk about the breaking of democratic order in Venezuela. Nineteen OAS countries submitted a resolution on 3 April denouncing this obligation of constitutional order. The OAS, the chancellors, will meet again on 31st of this month to take a position and on 1st of May Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro also unilaterally announced the convening of this new national process. Yesterday he was given a new twist to this new process. Despite the repeated resolutions, dictates and declarations from the European Union through the President of the European Parliament, regional bodies such as Mercosur or the Organization of American States, cited through his Secretary-General Luis Almagro, or the main non-governmental organizations responsible for ensuring international human rights and the attempt to mediation promoted by Unasur, with the participation of the three former presidents and the Vatican, the Venezuelan Government maintains its course, systematically ignoring the calls to this dialogue. According to official data these days, more than 50 people are killed in the streets. There are others the unofficial data on deaths during these weeks. It is therefore necessary to take all the necessary measures in the field of external relations on the part of the Government of Spain, without fail to rely, of course, on the ongoing dialogue and mediation approaches, to make decisive progress in social peace and political and institutional stability in Venezuela, with full right to democracy and with full and absolute respect to human rights. The links between Galicia and Venezuela, the situation of the Greeks that reside in that republic and that of the returnees demand that all possible initiatives be taken by our community. For this reason, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has put forward this non-law proposal, demanding and demanding three actions: First of all, to call on the Government of the State for firm, prioritised and prudent external action with the Government of the Republic of Venezuela to ensure that, by continuing dialogue, Venezuelan democratic freedoms are guaranteed, with the release of political prisoners, to ensure the necessary transparent electoral processes and to make the most of human rights. Secondly, the Central Government is asking for an urgent solution with Venezuela in order to ensure the protection of our immigration in that country, which unlocks, in addition, the non-payment of our emigrants' pensions, in compliance with the bilateral agreements signed, as it said, between two countries, and to take all measures by the Government of Greece to meet the most urgent needs of the most affected migrants and especially those who are returned in this situation of non-reimbursement of pensions. As our Congress Member, Mr Gutiérrez Limones, said, in the debate, precisely on this issue last week in Congress, Venezuela has to find its way, and this House, too, has the opportunity to tell them that they are not alone, that when the time of truth came, when they really needed us, the Spaniards — and here the Greeks — were there, helping the Venezuelans who can freely be owners of their destiny again. Equality policies have as a precondition for public freedoms. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u100	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u101	Thank you, President. Good day to all and all. The Galician Nationalist Block also does not want to remain impatient about Venezuela's situation and that's why we have to start by saying that in the last nineteen years the social majority of Venezuelans have launched a process of social and national emancipation aimed at overcoming the enormous inequalities in the country and reforming it into a more just, free and sovereign society. This process is incardinated in a broader process, developed in Latin America, of emancipation, of change based on equal rights, social justice and national sovereignty without interference. For that reason, the capital, the oligarchies, the imperialism, which was captained by the United States, put in place all their machinery to put down, for example, governments working in that direction; institutional blows that brought down progressive governments in Honduras, Paraguay or Brazil. They're trying in Venezuela. Venezuelan democracy has been referred to in the last nineteen years by 20 electoral processes. The so-called "chavismo" won 18 of these electoral consultations; processes that since 1998 have had international observers who in all cases considered these elections valid, clean and democratic. We cannot say the same thing in other countries on the same continent, but we do not see initiatives in that direction. Despite this democratic legitimacy, Venezuela continues to endure intolerable attempts by external interferences and destabilizing maneuvers promoted and organized by those unable to admit the dictatorship of the polls and to respect the sovereignty of the country. In these maneuvers people and organizations of the Venezuelan political opposition were involved, opposition leaders who made and made explicit calls to the people so that they would go out into the street to overthrow the democratically elected Government; opponents to whom they intend to present themselves as victims of a supposed political repression, when they were arrested in accordance with Venezuela's legal order for alleged participation in actions that aimed to overthrow the legitimate Government. The American continent, going through social conflicts from north to south: demonstrations in Brazil against corruption and general strike in April; mass demonstrations in Puerto Rico, declared bankrupt; massive demonstrations in Chile against the private pension system; strikes in Argentina against the Government of Macri; in Colombia full of murders, more than 80 union leaders defending human rights killed since the peace agreement was signed in 2016; Mexico is one of the most unequal states on the American continent, thousands of murders and disappearances, women raped and murdered, natural resources police, genocide against indigenous peoples, corruption and power coexistence with the bosses... and nothing happens, they are not objects of media observation. We can talk about Palestine, the Sahara, people massacred, invaded, with their rights systematically violated, political prisoners, trials, farces, hunger strikes, and there is no media focus or initiatives to defend the rights of these people. [[Applause]] We can talk about Saudi Arabia, the friend Saudi Arabia, that friendly state of the Spanish state, a friend of the Spanish monarchy, where in January the Spanish monarch went to visit, not to speak of human rights. Since we're talking about reports, what do you say in Amnesty International's report on Saudi Arabia? Women can't drive, they must always go with a man. The latest way is to execute women in the street by beheading. The hypocrisy of international bodies even allows him to be in the UN commission to ensure women's rights and nothing happens. [[Applause]] And these other dramatic realities are not the subject of concern or occupation by the democratic European Union, the Spanish State or the media powers. What matters is the reality built, manipulated, twisted, for the glory of economic and political interests. A built reality that forgets that Venezuela is a land free of illiteracy since 2005, declared by UNESCO, that Venezuela has a housing adaptation program to the most needy sectors that is an example of Latin America, that organisms such as the UN, FAO, WHO or Unicef, among others, have recognized for less than a year than Venezuela's efforts to eradicate inequalities are the largest in Latin America. In Venezuela there are many problems, and it will not be the BNG who denies them, but it would be good not to act as hooligans of what certain media groups and economic groups are ordered to go back to camp for their broads as if they had followed in colonial times or at the time before a Bolivarian movement. It would be good if we once forgot that "eurocentric" superiority complex and stopped teaching others. Venezuela is a presidential state, and I am not going to defend this model of state, as is France, which has just elected a president and has exaggerated powers, but that is the decision of Venezuelans, that is the decision of which they have been endowed, with a president elected by the people, who has these powers, among them to convene the Constituent Assembly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u103	... indeed, among them to convene the Constituent Assembly. And BNG won't teach anyone. What we want to say to finish is that we're not confessional to anyone, but we're not going to act on anyone's dictates; we defend the people's right to choose their path. It's an aspiration that shouldn't give up anyone who considers himself or himself a Democrat. And besides, we are concerned about the situation in Venezuela and the situation of migrants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u105	...both those who are here and those who are there. But we're not going to admit they're used to a trial of Venezuela's situation. We are going to vote in favour of solving the problem of migrants, but we are not doing a political control here in Venezuela. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Prado Colors. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u107	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that when I read the initiative, I didn't know whether it was the Socialist Party or the People's Party... they bring an irresponsible initiative today, full of judgments of value and no objective data, with a partial vision, something that no Member or Member should ever do. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Irresponsible because the situation in Venezuela is complicated, because the people are suffering terrorist acts from groups on the right, accumulating murders, looting and disturbances of public order. This week these terrorists set fire to health centers, burned public buildings, public transport, food and medicines that are dedicated to the people. In view of this situation, you decide to assume the arguments of those who call for a coup d'état, the arguments of those who support terrorists, who do not want to assume the need for dialogue, peace and political solutions to political conflicts. With these statements, you are placed today on Mr. Zapatero's right hand and even on the right of the Vatican call, the pope himself, who accompanies Unasur's dialogue, and has warned in the last few weeks that the right is not helping because he has risen from the negotiating table, calling him — a couple of weeks ago — to adopt the spirit of dialogue again and to sit back on the negotiating table. What we do know is that all of us here should support the so-called peace and dialogue and not support the right-wing violence. It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, it is irresponsible to call "political prisoners" people who have been tried and convicted of serious crimes against the constitutional order of a country, including the promotion of violence. What if this happened here? Ladies and gentlemen, victims of terrorism deserve justice in any country in the world, whether in Venezuela, Spain or anywhere. That is why this proposal is unacceptable. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in any country, if a criminal politician is tried, and if it's convenient, be condemned here and also in Venezuela. In Venezuela, as in Spain, there is a democratically elected government, regardless of the political position we have here and there. They also ask the Government to ensure electoral processes. We must study, because in Venezuela there are five powers, not three, as in Spain, being the electoral power responsible for the convening and maintenance of elections in that country; but a constitutional competence of the Government to convene the Constituent Assembly, as it has done in recent weeks to ensure a peaceful process in which the people can express themselves. This initiative, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, is also responsible because it facilitates the play of the People's Party, which uses day and day in Venezuela also to hide its cases of corruption, to hide that President Rajoy is witnessing in a case of corruption to hide the lack of respect for the separation of powers, obviously that while this corruption was taking place our people were impoverished. A quarter of the children's population is in poverty. Shouldn't we be talking about this? Because, if you want to talk about Venezuela, if you want to talk about Venezuela, let's talk about the looting of our boxes, and the selling to Banesco of our boxes; a bank of the Venezuelan oligarchy to which the Government gave the public heritage for 1,000 million euros, the heritage of all the Greeks and Greeks. [[Applause]] Now they worry; yet they have given away our heritage. Nor does it seem appropriate to use a real and obvious problem, which is the problem of pension compensation, the delay in pension payments, the payment of pensions, to use it politically for your benefit. Of course, there are pensioners with difficulties, and this problem is complex, but not only here, but also in other countries, also in Norway, as we have defended on other occasions. That is why we tabled an amendment to remove that unacceptable, ingenuistic and anti-constitutional point, which is the first point of the proposal, and replace the rest of the initiative with a solution for all bilateral agreements that the State has subscribed to with different countries. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, what we cannot support is the one who is justifying a blow that is producing immense pain in the Venezuelan population. We must defend democracy and the legitimacy of the people to decide their future in any country, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why, just as the left has not yielded to blackmail in Chile, we will not yield — to the left — in this blackmail. You do as you consider.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u109	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning and greetings to all who accompany us today from the stage. What's going on in Venezuela is dramatic; it's dramatic for Venezuelans who live there and also for those who have either gone or wanted to go, and that's very well known to those close to 4,000 pensioners who have come from Venezuela and who haven't paid their pensions for years and a half... so, honestly, I'm amazed to hear some of the interventions we've heard here today. [[Applause]] Mrs. Solla, those of the People's Party do know what we saw here today. We came here to defend those people who, despite having the right...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u110	Mr. Sánchez... No, no. Mr. Sánchez, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u111	...to collect those pensions, they can't be charged, because Mr. Maduro's government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u112	Mr. Sánchez, be quiet. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I call you by order, Mr. Sánchez. No, no, Mr. Sánchez, no. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It's all right. No, no, sorry. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me, call order. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You have a call to order, Mr. Sánchez, don't argue with me. Don't argue with me. Mr. Sánchez, second call to order, and I warn you, if I call him back to order, you expel him. Second call to order, Mr. Sánchez. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If I call him again, I'll expel him. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez, leave the full. Leave the full, Mr. Sánchez. Leave the full, please. I think it's okay. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, no, leave the full. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'm sorry, I'm leaving the full. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Leave the full, please. That's it. Of course. Leave the full, please. I think it was enough what we talked about among ourselves; therefore, leave the full. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Continue, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u113	President, please, I'd like you to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u114	Yeah, don't worry about time, I know how to make up for time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u115	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u116	Well, if the microphone's fine, it's all right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u117	He said that the people of the People's Group do know what we saw here today. We've come here to defend these Greeks or those Venezuelans who live in Galicia who have their pension, who have the right to pay their pensions and that the Government of Maduro is not paying them for them for years and a half; men and women who are in a critical situation in many cases, even after a defeat. That's what we came here today. I came up with the idea, with the intention and the conviction that today we would all agree, according to something essential, that we can help people who are in need, and I thought, in addition, that just those on the left, who are always defending with logic — and that we share — those emergency situations, they would also be defending and supporting the situation that these people are living because they are living in an emergency situation. But what we hear here from some is that we have to make politics. They're the politicians, gentlemen of the BNG and gentlemen of En Marea. You're the ones who come here to talk about other things today, not about what we're dealing with, not about Venezuela. Of course we know there were pensioners who had problems in Norway with their contributions, and in Germany. You put forward proposals for this and we, from the People's Party, supported them and went out unanimously. But we were talking about it at that time. At this point, we're talking about Venezuela and, therefore, I think it's totally incredible that you guys are on the purely ideological side. What's the matter with you, Mr. In Marea, to demand Maduro? Why can they demand all the countries of the world and not demand Maduro? What do you owe Maduro? Perhaps what happens is they have the slogan of that one, by Pablo Iglesias, when he said in Venezuela: What envy you give me the Spaniards who lived in Venezuela! [[Applause]] Do you really think that? Can you say that? You, who live with the Greeks who are not paying their pensions, you, who live with the Greeks, and who certainly have a lot of families in Venezuela -- why don't they have a family in Venezuela and you don't know what's going on! -- can they sign that? Not us. We've seen here today about the Greeks and Venezuelans who are in Galicia who don't charge their pensions. That's what we came to talk about. And that's why we support the motion presented by the PSOE, even though we tabled an amendment to that LNP because we believe that it can be improved, that it can be expanded and that it can be realized. What we are asking is that problems with Venezuela be solved at once, that the Spanish Government intervenes so that they can actually charge these pensions effectively, as before, and that, while this is not possible, they can have access to other compensation and assistance so that they can get out of that emergency situation in which they are living, according to the reports presented here on the situation in Venezuela. And also tell them that we don't need those reports that help us, but that we already live them every day because we all know a Venezuelan of our family or our environment that's having problems. To solve these problems in such a way right now since the Galician Union, various mechanisms have already been put in place. The General Secretariat of Immigration is in contact with the different institutions in Venezuela to try to solve this problem as well, and within their competences are improving the aid and budgets for returnees. And also from Social Policy, social integration aids have been modified as to their requirements to take account not only of the income they have rights, but of the income they actually earn. Agreements were also signed with the associations, with the Federation of Venezuelans in Galicia, to open offices in Ourense and Vigo, which is the area where there is the most affected, and so that those people there do not have yet to spend money and time on displacements to have their information and to help them also carry out the various procedures to solve these situations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u119	We know this isn't enough. We know that we have to keep working, and that's why we want to and we ask the PSOE to also take into account our amendments, which is -- I think -- to improve a little, to expand a little, those requests that were made, but which coincide in the fundamental and that coincide with that interest. From here we offer — and I think all groups should do so — our solidarity with Venezuelans and Venezuelans who are in Galicia. We should keep working on it since the Galician Union, the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u121	...that he will continue to do so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u122	Thank you, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u123	And I hope this initiative, Mr. Villoslada...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u124	Thank you, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u125	...you can also count...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u126	Thank you, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u127	...with those improvements of our proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u128	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u129	Thank you, President. Mrs. Prado, Mrs. Solla, what did you report in this House to tell the 45,000 Greek migrants in Venezuela? Yeah? Would you tell them directly to the 3,500 pensioners who are not receiving Venezuela's pension after year and a half? [[Applause]] It is incredible to hear in a democratic and law-based state how this identification of political opposition and terrorism is! [[Murmurs.]] It is incredible to hear this statement from a group — a priori — who believes and trusts the system of a democratic rule of law. [[Applause]] I think there are absolutely no arguments on the part of the two groups, En Marea and the Galego Nationalist Block, to justify the unjustifiable in relation to this non-law proposition. To talk about the Socialist Group bringing this to cover up the corruption of the People's Party, at last... but please call Amnesty International and ask him — I suppose they will not doubt Amnesty' moral and international legitimacy — so that whoever is telling us the positions that we have to present in this House in defense of a social and democratic state that must be Venezuela. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u130	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u131	With the rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u132	No, no. Mr. Cal, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u133	With human rights, you can't be half ink and you can't create stories in this posverity that we've all been used to. It's very clear, yes, Amnesty International's report is powerful. Please read them with arrest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u134	Sir Cal, I call you by order. Quiet, please! Sir Cal, I call you by order. Once.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u135	If we need to talk to other countries, the Socialist Party will always be supporting any initiative by any group of this House that brings here a violation of human rights; any one. But what happens is that most of the Welsh emigration in Venezuela has this problem, so it's in this House, not another House. [[Applause]] For our part, and in relation to the amendments, we will support and accept the proposals submitted by the People's Party to add to those which established our proposal not of law, to conquer that precisely the Government of Spain anticipates in the circumstances taxed pensions that are not chargeable to pensioners as the Government of Venezuela must now enter under the agreement. It's a shame — and it's over — but we've already seen last week as much by Podemos or Left were absolutely contrary to the statement that this Socialist Party also presented about Venezuela's situation. And I speak almost in my own personal capacity, but as a Socialist Member, yesterday we voted in full conscience in relation to the Committee on the Angles, and today we are bringing this initiative in absolute consciousness.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u136	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made to the Central Government in relation to the investment provided for in the stability programme of Spain 2017-2020 for the rescue of several motorways
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u137	An amendment was made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u138	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u139	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I'm going to read some names, see if they're right: Ferrovial, Itinere, Sacyr, Citigroup, Abertis, ACS, Bankia, Acciona, Globalvia, OHL. Don't I know if their names ring? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Could be from the B box of the People's Party, from the B box of Baseles, right? [[Applause]] In fact, many of the companies mentioned here are in the roles of that accounting record, in the accounting records of Mr.Bárcenas, of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] Indeed, OHL is also in Punica and in the papers of Barcelona for, for example, payments of 2 million euros through — I don't know if these names also sound — Villar Mir, López Madrid — they're all, aren't they? — they're also in the papers of Mr Francisco Granados — I don't know them —... Yes, yes, the Malla bee, the Malla bee, Mrs Prado. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u140	Programmed investment 2017-2020.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u141	These companies that I have just mentioned, which could be and are many of them in the roles of the Bárcenas, are the companies that, if we fail to remedy them, will embolish at least EUR 3,500 million from the public era, from the state budgets, to pay the puppies of the motorways programmed and driven by those fantastic governments of excellent management of Mr Aznar: the motorway Madrid-Toledo, Madrid-Guadalajara, Madrid-Arganda, Madrid-Ocaña, Madrid-Navalcarnoro, Ocaña-La Roda, circumvaluation of Alicante, Cartagena-Vera — I don't know if they sound too, I don't know if they're going through there normally — but we pay them all and all with public money; over EUR 3,500 million to rescue this disaster, this mess, this spate. And it is not only the ransom for mismanagement of concessions, but also the payment of expropriations, because also those governments of the People's Party were so magnificent managers that they predicted a cost of 387 million euros for expropriations and it turns out that it will cost 2,190 million euros. This is called being great managers. There's 1,199 million euros still pending payment; that's called making the accounts right. But in reality everything remains at home, because many of the families benefiting from these expropriations are well known families of landowners, such as the family of Mr. Juan Abello, the Jove family or the Franco family, also that of the Latifundo de Meirás, which will also be benefited by these expropriations. We're not going to talk here about another long list of puppies from the People's Party's governments, but with these issues already to the People's Party, to the PP, instead of the People's Party, we should call it "Puff Party"; PP: "Puf Party's Party"; I think this name suits you very well. [[Applause]] And this is the result of these infrastructures of the casino economy promoted by the governments of Mr. Aznar's People's Party, these great rulers. I don't know if they're called by names: Mouse—in addition to Aznar—, Helmets, Acebes, Matas, Zaplana; I don't know all of these names, I don't know—then we can talk a little more about them—of brilliant history, many of them of brilliant deluitive history. Well, in those governments that pushed these motorways, of construction and private management, with that contubernance of the bank and the builders, the same construction companies turn out that they were also the concessionaires of those magnificent infrastructures, and, if there were benefits, they were for the concessionaires; and, if there are losses, they are for us to pay them all and all, with public funds. That's the maximum of predatory capitalism that practice, by the way, the only capitalism that exists, as much as they want to disguise it: privatization of profits and socialization of losses; we've also seen it in the case of the bank. Yes, you, who are very innovative in government, promote circular economy, circular economy — as you know — from the rotating doors. So it turns out that those magnificent rulers of Mr Aznar who are not arrested, those who are not prosecuted, those who are not charged with those governments that we can call them, with property, criminal governments, are on boards of directors of large companies. Mr. Aznar, to begin with, Endesa; Mr. Zaplana, at Telefónica; Isabel Tocino, I don't know how many companies it is placed anymore; one of them is Ence, also Enagas; Acebes, at Iberdrola; Josep Pique, Juan Carlos Aparicio, Ana Isabel de Palacio and del Valle Lersundi—nobreza objes—... On this list, which is a small list, there are not many of the former presidents, former ministers and ministers, former high offices, twenty-six only in the electricians. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, don't come here to defend the indefensible, don't come here to defend the argumentary that sent them teledirected from Genoa, to say — that is what they're going to say — that there is an obligation to comply with a court sentence for the bankruptcy of the concessionaires; we know that argument, it's not here to repeat it. What do they tell us about the lack of planning, the mismanagement of the institutional, economic and infrastructure model that has brought us here? Because that's the question, that's the key, that's the cause of this disaster that we have to pay now, that the State has to pay or that it intends to pay, as it has passed to the European Union, for that system that you have chosen and decided to finance and build infrastructure. At this we, the BNG, are called big-scale corruption, a scam; yes, a perfectly legal scam, blessed by the Council of Ministers, blessed by the Official State Bulletin, blessed by the European Union. And those responsible for this scam, those responsible for this outcome, who have names and names, don't have to pay their responsibilities, but many of them, many of them, were awarded with positions on boards of directors. Well, it turns out that Mr. Rajoy's government has just communicated to Brussels, as it is collected in that 2017-2020 stability programme, which will pay bills worth EUR 3,500 million at the cost of the public era to self-strengthening companies, to friendly companies; in the 2017-2018 budgets they will be paid with public funds of EUR 3,500 million. We are therefore faced with a new aggravation of that endless amount of aggravating that has also recently been achieved in the State budgets for 2017. And while here we have to suffer from the policy and fraud of AP-9, the bad service, the retentions, the accidents -- even yesterday there was one in Rande -- the increase in the fees, the millionaire benefits of the concessionaire, which makes every day 300,000 euros of cash, while we are denied the possibility to manage by ourselves that this country manages AP-9 and to end these abusive fees, while it is said that it is not possible to rescue AP-9, which is more than justifiable, but there are 3,500 million for the poof of these self-induced misdirected pests. And the Minister of Injustice, Mr. Catalá, who for a while has been Minister of Development, still dares to say that it will be a good business, that it will be a good business to pay you 3,000; of course, a good business for friendly companies, for those companies it is a good business. They're not ashamed. [[Applause]] So, if you have a minimum of shame, really, if you have a minimum of shame and decency, you are going to stand before this trouble, you are acting autonomously, you put forward the common interest, Galicia's interest before the interest of the People's Party and Mr. Rajoy, you support this BNG proposal, do not be complicit in this new outrage, do not allow me to move over Galicia and not say that it rains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u142	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Intervention of the groups now. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor of Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Parliamentary Group makes two allegations to this non-legislative proposal submitted by the BNG Group, which we believe will be accepted or at least partly by the proposed group. As all Members and Members know, at the plenary session of 7 March this year we unanimously approve, once again, a proposal for organic law to submit to the Congress of Members on the transfer of title and competences from AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which once again seems to be vetoed in the Congress of Members by the People's Party, without taking into account that for the people of Galicia to AP-9 it is a vertebral way that connects the entire Atlantic range and five of the seven major cities of Greece, being therefore one of the most important routes of connection that we have, both from a social point of view and from an economic point of view, being more important, it is still possible, if we note that the possibilities of communication outside this motorway with the same populations are difficult, both because of the quality of the infrastructures and because of the time that would take us to their communication. But still, despite the great importance it has for Galicia, AP-9 remains dependent on the central government, with too high tolls in the Spanish context, which limit access to people and plunder the development of the Greek economic sectors. On the basis of this, in the Italian Parliament — and I insist, unanimously from all groups — we act to ensure that, on the basis of the powers conferred by the laws on our Autonomous Community, which are set out both in the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia and in the Spanish Constitution and in the other sectoral legislation, this title and transfer of powers over the legal regime of this self-employed State is achieved and the effective transfer of functions and services on the said infrastructure is achieved. And in addition, it is also called for a joint transfer commission between the State and the Galician Union to be established for the conditions for the transfer of services, as well as the corresponding royal decree. However, this request is not reflected in the draft general state budgets, whereas the rescue of Madrid's radials is shown in the document called the 2017-2020 stability programme, with an amount of EUR 3,500 million. Here again we discuss a way of ruling that the People's Party has: spending of public money on fundamental things such as ruinous radio highways, airports for people, circuits of Formula 1 for empty toxos or auditoriums, megalomanic expenses for the bath of applause in their openings, so that private companies do business and in some case also politicians who charged them, without doing rigorous studies to establish the viability or not of these infrastructures, at the time of "Spain goes well", "everything is worth" "stoothing the scaffold", "the theft of the public without smelling"—and so it was to all of us, it would go well! — by helping in a decisive way that our country had sunk further into a brutal crisis in which the most disadvantaged were doublely punished by their economic situation and because much of the resources that should be allocated to these most vulnerable people so that they could pass the crisis in a better way were to enrich the pockets of a few and make infrastructures for nobody and for nothing. Are you aware of the amount of public money that has been invested in these unnecessary expenses? Really, don't you think they're embarrassed to be able to continue teaching ethics and good behavior? I'm really embarrassed. They're strong, they despise us, they repudiate us. They're making an irreversible damage to the whole political class and above all to society as a whole. If you don't feel complicit, ask for your expulsion publicly and collaborate so that Justice, as soon as possible, will act vigorously and pay politically and socially for what they've done. The Parliamentary Group, which I have said before, has tabled two amendments: a first in which the Government of the State is called for and a second amendment in which we ask that, if the stability programme of Spain 2017-2020...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u145	...these funds are not included, if you grant a margin of confidence to be within the Joint Transfers Commission which is provided for in the bill sent to Congress of Deputies where the funds necessary to proceed to their transfer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u147	...so that a substantial reduction in the fees paid by users can be carried out. I'm done, Mr. President. We hope that our President of Galicia will resume his dialogue with the President of the Government and that through this joint committee the necessary funds will be made available for Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u149	Good morning. I'm here today as a replacement. And I wanted to start by saying that the BNG proposal likes me very much, and I mean that the defense of it that Louis Bará made makes me really much more like me. We are therefore going to support this initiative by applauding it clearly. I believe that the subject of radials is going to be studied in world business schools, how a scam is perpetrated against the state, and how all agents intervene: the lobby builder, who decides to build highways for profit; the banking lobby, who decides to finance that building of highways based on feasibility studies. And for all those who defend free competition, the market, which cannot fall into moral risk, that companies that are not viable have to close, etc., the role of the State appears. Private companies, funded by private banks, decide to make investments that are ruinous. That, in the free market economy of business schools, because it should end the breakdown of businesses, and point. But no, companies were the ones that the state had assumed that, if they made profits, it was for them, but, if they broke, the state, that is, we, the citizenry, paid them money. Do you know who those highways are now? They started from building companies, which sold their titles to banks, and the Spanish banks sold them to American investment funds, so that you don't even know who the owner is; you'll know the moment we pay, right? It is clear that this theory of socialization of losses is explicitly expressed here: when there are benefits to businesses; when there are losses, which pay for citizenship. The only positive thing about this scam is that it opens a debate. The People's Party said it's going to nationalize highways. Well, let's accept that debate. We accept this debate: it will nationalize highways. And in that sense, what we're saying is, why can you invest 3,500 million euros in covering a hole for money to take you a U.S. investment fund and why can't you invest 1,800 million euros in nationalizing a round business like AP-9? I'll remember some figures here. Audasa, in AP-9, shares in net dividends 1 out of every 3 euros invoicing, has benefits before taxes of 1 out of every 2 euros and has — for the one with economic concepts — a cash flow of 3 out of every 4 euros invoicing. There's nothing more profitable than that monopoly that swindles the whole of Greek citizenship. According to Audasa's annual accounts, until the end of the concession it will bill — pay attention — EUR 10,000 million. If you earn 1 out of every 2, 5 billion euros of profits before taxes. We think this is the time to open that debate. Do you have to transfer the competition? Yes. But we have to go further. And that further is the need to study what the procedure and the cost is for the Atlantic highway, the AP-9, to be nationalized, to be public, to be owned by the Greeks. And we don't amend it, but we would encourage the BNG to come into that demand that the Greek Government do a serious and rigorous study to determine the procedure and the price so that that central channel in communication in Welsh mobility is public property.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. Mr Fernández Prado has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u151	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Spokesman of the BNG, let me tell you, with all due respect, that in this topic of the AP-9 motorway, it does nothing but demagogy and confuse citizens with deceptions and half-truths. It seems they're not clear what the common objective of the Greeks and this House is, that it's nothing but getting the AP-9 transfer to Galicia as soon as possible, but, with these demagogues, with half-truths and deceits, nothing is helped, nothing at all. Because to say that the AP-9 case is the same as that of Catalonia or the Basque Country is to deceive, as I explained to you the other day. And, by the way, in the three cases, with even more expensive fees. What we have to do in defense of this transfer is to speak with real data, not be questioned by the same people who have them. And, in the same way, equipping the rescue of Madrid's radial concessions with the case of AP-9 is to deceive people again. As you well know, the so-called rescue of radials, which is nothing other than a reinvestment of that concession, is a situation that survives a breach of a public concession, and there is a contract that must be complied with and a law that obliges the State to take over the broken concessions, not to lose a public service; otherwise, they should be closed. The administration, by law, has a heritage responsibility to face. What is strange to me is that you, gentlemen of the BNG — and ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry — do not know this responsibility, because when they've ruled, they have left behind property responsibilities of concessions for more than 200 million euros to the Greeks, that any government that comes after will have to face if something like Madrid happens. By the way, I'd like to remind you of one thing: you made a business list. What a coincidence! The same companies you left these concessions with, too. What's wrong? All you forgot was to put Mr. Anxo Quintana and Mr. Fernando Blanco on the list of names. That's what the list would complete. [[Applause]] Mr. BNG, ask me what I'm saying about the model. Well, you did it yourself, because it's the very model that BNG made when he ruled in Galicia, the very same in everything, and the very same that PSOE does in Madrid when he rules. So with which you incorporate the Quintana Angel, you can only answer the question you were asking me. You know perfectly well that it's not an option, but it's an obligation, and you know perfectly well that the minister has already said that it is possible to believe or a public company that keeps taxes or bids again. In any case, they're not going to put that money down, they have to be in budgets, because there's already a court ruling that requires those concessions to be handled in bankruptcy, but you know perfectly that they have to appear and they have to be taken over until an agreement, agreement or solution of that legal obligation is reached. He will seek the Government's less burdensome solution. But let me also, after hearing the voice of the PSOE, that, of course, to hear Mrs. Rumbo talk about that if we were to fall down the face of shame, when this we will see the amount to put on, but what we know for certain is, in the magnificent management of Zapatero's governments, with Mr. Montilla and Mr. Sebastian, at Castor 1,300 million euros, yes or yes, and put on the AP-7, with the excellent minister Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez Arza, who signed a commitment that guarantees income to the concessionaire, against the opinion of the General Intervention of the State, by judicial judgment, 1,500 million euros. And you say you have to fall for us in shame? That's right, and then listen together to PSOE and BNG talking about puppies. Do you know who the game of puppies is? The Bipartite I'm going to remind you, since I see that they have little memory, that they are the ones of the big hole, the big hole, the two billion euros that the budget of the Bipartite then forced the governments of Feijóo to pay for all the Greeks; 2 billion euros, which, as always, have left the two-party governments alone and now have to pay for the governments and the management of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] This is always the story of the puppies, the puppies are from the Bipartite, and then the People's Party has to get to pay those previous puppies, the big hole of 2,200 million euros, 2,200. And these 2,200 million euros don't pay them all or you'll pay them another concessionaire in a new bid; these 2,200 we pay them every year, the Greeks. [[Applause]] I know they don't like it. Don't worry. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u153	What I want to say is that we will not support this proposal. [[Murmurs.]] But, listening to the arguments of the BNG, the other day I was still giving me something that they couldn't go to defend the AP-9 transfer to Madrid, but today, after hearing these arguments, I'm almost glad that the BNG isn't in that parliamentary commission that has to defend it, because, with these arguments, full of lies, of false truths, when we have to tell them to the people who have the data, the only thing we do is throw it against. [[Murmurs.]] We are going to Madrid to fight for the transfer of AP-9, President, but with real data, with credible proposals and without misleading the Greeks. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u154	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u155	If it wasn't clear, we now became clearer why we were seen in that delegation to defend AP-9 in Madrid, because they bother the truths we said, because they bother the truths we said and they don't want to hear these truths in the State Parliament, of course. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u156	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u157	And now Mr. Fernández Prado is awarded the representation of the Greeks and the Greeks; those of the BNG are not Greeks and the Greeks. Look, the 2017 state budgets are really an account adjustment with Galicia, they're an account adjustment, because you in Madrid take Galicia as a conquered land and then do what you want. And now we're still awaiting negotiations with the Canary Islands. All the budget increases that were, for example, in military spending, debt payments, the reduction of investments in Galicia by EUR 440 million, and also that pocket of $3500 million to pay for the rescue of the self-roads in Madrid, a real scandal. And it rains on wet, it rains on wet, if it's rain, if it's rain and not another liquid not odorless and not colourless, because it looks more like this liquid than it rains on. Well, and besides, if this wasn't enough, if this cut wasn't enough, if it wasn't enough this aggravation of the 3,500 million to pay that ransom, it turns out that in the last four years they left without investing more than 2,000 million euros of state budgets in investments in Galicia, and it wasn't, as Mr. Feijóo said, because there was a government in function in 2016, because that money wasn't spent either in 2014, in 2013, in 2015, in none of those years. It's not because there was a government blockade in function, it was a repeated question, and now we're glad that 440 million is down. [[Applause]] And to this you have to add the aggravation of autonomic funding, the aggravation of funding for the municipalities, but, well, you're happy with the paperwork you're doing about AP-9. Mr. Feijóo said that of "Galicia first"; for no, it is not Galicia first; first are the highways of Madrid, which are the ones that will be paid with state budgets. We therefore ask them not to allow this humiliation, to break with this attitude of submission and vassalage and therefore to really defend Galician interests. Look, you didn't consider us among the population of the Greeks and the Greeks in your intervention, because it was in question that we were Greeks and Greeks like you. Indeed, there are differences between you and us, there are many differences at ideological level; one of them is that we have no militants at Soto del Real. And you, if you go on like this, will end up doing the congresses at Soto del Real. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u158	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u159	With regard to the amendments to the PSOE, we accept the first one, and the second one we also accept it as an addendum, which would be the third point of the agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u160	Okay, second as add. [[Mr. Puy Fraga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Puy? What do you want the word for? Give Mr. Puy a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u161	I ask for the word in accordance with Article 76.1 for cases where in the course of a debate there are judgments of value or phrases or inaccurate words.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u162	And what is the inaccuracy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u163	Well, the one Mr. Member of the Galician Nationalist Block has just done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u164	No, no, sorry, you have to know what inaccuracy is and I'll value it if that's the case or not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u165	He said, referring to the People's Group, which vetoed the presence of the Galician Nationalist Block in the delegation of the Galician Parliament that will defend the transfer of AP-9 to Madrid. There is no such veto, my own group could have appointed by number of votes two representatives of the three who at most mark the Constitution that can come to that debate. [[Murmurs.]] And far, of course, from the intention of the People's Party to veto any group. The remaining two positions in the Chamber have been allocated by votes and there are two groups that have more votes than the Block. So there was no veto, but there was a simple count of the votes of the Members of this group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u166	That's right. Thank you. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Yes, Mrs. Pontón? What do you want the word for? It needs what it is. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] And what is the inaccuracy? Yeah, yeah, give the scan a voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u167	I, first of all, Mr President, do not know whether the People's Parliamentary Group is now entitled to close the debate, which is what Mr Puy has just done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u168	No, no, it formulates what inaccurateness is, that I value it. What is the inaccuracy of this case?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u169	To the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, of course, what we have become more clear every day is that there is an absolutely arbitrary use here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u170	No, no, that's not it. You have no word, Mrs. Pontón. Mrs. Pontón, you don't have the floor. I understood what was meant and exactly so. Here he voted. There was a vote in Parliament, who elected the representative. You don't, therefore, have the word. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, you don't have the floor. Mrs. Pontón, no, you don't have the word, because I know what it is... it's corrected. Thank you. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I gave him the floor, but not what you asked for. No, no, no, he's not... I'm sorry. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. You don't have the floor. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, you don't have the floor. No, no, no, no. Thank you. That's it! That's it! You have no word, Mrs. Pontón! No, no. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, whatever you want! [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón! Did you finish this? If not, I have to call her in order, Mrs. Pontón. Well, I'll have to call her in order. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, it's not a matter that I want, but if this is the case, I'll have to. It's up to me to control the debate. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs Pontón, the debate is over. It's over. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u171	Let's start the votes. A vote was pending yesterday's motion, in particular that of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao. There was a transaction pending; I do not know if there is a transaction. [[Mr Rodríguez Arias asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias? What do you want the word for? Give your voice to the bench, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u172	To remember that the People's Group requested a separate vote of points 2, 15 and 18 (a) and 5 (b)
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Mrs Vázquez Verao, do you accept the point vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u174	No, no, no, no. Thanks to the valuation of those points, we've reached a transaction with the amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u175	But do you not accept the point vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u176	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u177	What about the transaction they came to?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u178	The transaction is in section 9 of block a; in this way, the wording would remain: " progressively recovers the direct management of school dining rooms with the involvement of autonomous and local administrations, ensuring the free service and the sufficient squares for all students." And with regard to the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group in block (b), paragraph 2, accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u179	Thank you. We therefore vote for this transaction. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao and D. Luís Villares Naveira, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to the data relating to child poverty. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u180	We now vote on non-law proposals. We started by voting for the People's Parliamentary Group of Mrs. Amigo Díaz. I was pending a transaction. No transaction? Is that how it is? We vote for the non-law proposal as it is. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and four Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government for the improvement and clarification of the regulation of health advertising, concerning centres, establishments, goods and services, to avoid misleading advertisements. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u181	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia on the initiative of Da María Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez. Amendments were rejected. We therefore vote on the non-law proposal as drafted. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the People's G.P. of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez and eight other Members, on the maintenance and promotion by the Galician Council of Aids in the Integral Rehabilitation Area of the Ways of Santiago, at least until 2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u182	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Francisco Casal. He has already stated who has defended the non-law proposal that accepts the amendments of BNG and PSOE. We therefore vote with the amendments incorporated. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the commercial practices being carried out by the electricity distributors companies to hire or transfer their customers to the electricity-free market. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u183	We are now voting for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García. He has already stated who has defended this non-law proposal that accepts the amendment of the PSOE and does not accept the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, yeah? What do you want the word for? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He would like to ask for a point of order. Who speaks? Mr. Villares. No, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Someone has to speak. Not being Mr. Sánchez, Mr. Villares is pronounced. Do you accept a point vote?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u184	We do not accept the vote by points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u185	Thank you, Mr. Villares. They do not accept a point vote. We voted for it as drafted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the transfer to the Congress of Members of the request to establish a parliamentary commission of inquiry on the causes of the railway accident in Angrois-Santiago on 24 July 2013, as well as on the conditions of safety on the high-speed rail network. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u186	We are now voting — although they have been debated together, we have voted on them separately — the proposals, in particular, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco. The amendment of En Marea was accepted and its self-amendment is also logically accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Antonio Quiroga Díaz and Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact and economic losses caused by the frosts that occurred at the end of April 2017 to the wine sector of the different designations of origin in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u187	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr José Luis Rivas Cruz. The amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group was accepted. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz asks for the floor.]] Yeah? What do you want the word for, Mr. Cruz?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u188	Yes, read it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u189	It would be four points: The 1st would be: "Avaluation would be and prolonged, at least one month, to contemplate the possible full or partial recovery of some crops." Point 2 would be: "Open lines of direct aids per surface or kilograms of affected fruit." Number 3 would be, "To see in these aids all the producers concerned." And the fourth would be, "Setting up a negotiation with agricultural insurance companies to adapt to the reality of this country."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u190	We vote for that transaction. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the damage caused by the frost in the vineyard on the night of 26 to 27 April 2017 in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense, mainly in areas of designations of origin of Ribeiro, the Ribeira Sacra, Valdeorras and Monterrey. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u191	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada. The amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is accepted as an addition. [[Mr Prado del Río asks for a word.]] Yes, Mrs. Prado? What do you want the word for? [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] Ask for a point of order. Do you accept the point vote? Yeah? Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You are the one who can accept the point vote. And it's incorporated as the amendment of the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I accept it, I accept it as added, there is no transaction. I wasn't informed about that. I have here: accepted the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group as added. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what you said from the rostrum. [[Mr. Díaz Villoslada pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, give your voice to the bench, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u192	Yes, we have incorporated the amendments of the People's Party, so that the PNL will remain in four points — we will now bring the text to the Presidency. And if we also accept the four-point vote in accordance with the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u193	That's what we're saying. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But that's the deal! They accept the amendment of the Parliamentary Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But they didn't bring me this transaction. Of course, if you don't tell me! It's hard, eh! [[Murmurs.]] Things are already complex by themselves, but if we still have no information, it's much harder. Well, excuse this license. Do I read the transaction? I'll have to read the transaction, of course! STLS not supported by server: [[Murmurs.]] "1. To demand from the Government of the State a firm, priority and prudent external action with the Government of the Republic of Venezuela which, by means of dialogue, guarantees Venezuelan democratic freedoms with the release of political prisoners, ensures the necessary transparent electoral processes and exaggerates the maximum of human rights. 2. Demanding from the Central Government an urgent solution with Venezuela in order to ensure the protection of our immigration in that country, strengthening diplomatic contacts with the Venezuelan Government and promoting legal actions that are appropriate in order to ensure the effective fulfilment of the bilateral Convention on Social Security between Spain and Venezuela signed on 12 May 1988, establishing the necessary mechanisms for the Government of Venezuela to ensure that the full amount of the amounts due and the continuity of the benefits are paid to the Spanish Government. 3. To be addressed to the Government of Spain to ensure that Venezuelan pensioners living in Galicia and the rest of the State, who comply with the requirements of the Spanish general rules, the pension payable to them for not having effective Venezuelan income, so that they can receive the periodic benefit payable on the basis of their social situation, as provided for in our applicable legislation, moving it forward in a transitory manner without a consolidated character and reintegrable character until the Government of Venezuela rescheduls the payment of their pensions. 4. Take all the measures necessary to meet the most urgent needs of the most affected Greek immigrants in Venezuela and for the non-payment of their pensions by their Government." This is the deal we're going to vote for. This is the deal, Mrs. Prado. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You ask for points and you accept the points, so what are the points in particular? The first one separated and the others all together. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Let's vote first point number one. We vote. Vote of point 1 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and two other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government, as well as on the action to be taken in relation to the political and social situation in Venezuela, and in particular that of the people of Galicia emigrants in that country. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; votes against, 18. The voting is positive. Point 1 of this transactional text is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u194	We now vote points 2, 3 and 4 of this non-law proposal. Vote of points 2, 3 and 4 of the proposed non-law G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and two other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government, as well as on the action to be taken in relation to the political and social situation in Venezuela, and in particular that of the people of Galicia emigrants in that country. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 60; abstentions, 12. The voting is positive. Points 2, 3 and 4 of this agreed text are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u195	We voted last... Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Present in the room would be 72, affirmatives would be 60 and the rest would be 12 abstentions, of course; so doing a calculation, so... It's got to be like this, it's gone. [[Laughter]] I think I did it right, it was 59, plus 1 is 60, right now. [[Laughter]] We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, defended by Mr Bará. It accepts the first part of the amendment and accepts the second part of the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group as an addendum. We therefore vote for these acceptances. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made to the Central Government in relation to the investment provided for in the 2017-2020 stability programme for the rescue of several motorways. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u196	The votes are over, open the doors, please. And we continue with the fifth item on the agenda, which is that of interpeleration. Interpellation by D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María Concepción Burgo López, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the instructions given for the realization, in the course 2016-2017, of the tests of baccalaureate evaluation for access to university
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u197	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u198	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Education Counsellor, very good morning. We've come here to talk about something that's a poof — this, Mr. Prado, it's a poof — it's also a poof that has one responsibility, it's a poof that has one responsibility, it's a minister of state government education, who's committed to making an education law that was totally unnecessary and that has produced a number of educational improvisation that has no precedent in this country's educational history; and, in addition, this poof, Mr. Prado, if it affects all the Greeks and the Greeks, it affects all the students that this course will be examined within a few days of the baccalato's evaluation tests for access to university. In addition, it is an interpellation that is motivated not by a political initiative by any of the opposition groups, which, of course, we have presented any of the three initiatives throughout this course since Parliament was formed corresponding to this tenth legislation, as you know perfectly well. But the painter of this interpellation is that he is motivated by an investigation of the profession that decided to open the institution of the People's Valedor. So I think that qualitatively we can consider it different, because it is already known that opposition groups have a particular theme in looking for problems where there are no problems, but it turns out that this way of acting is not shared by an institution that we know is neutral and that it defends the rights of the entire citizen to the actions, in this case, of the Unity of Galicia. Last April 5, the people's valet opened an investigation on its own initiative as a result of your publication of the Resolution of 21 February 2017, a joint of the General Secretariat of Universities and the General Directorate of Education, which regulates the evidence of access to the old selectivity — to understand us — which is now called "the evaluation of the bachelor's degree for access to the university." And on this resolution, which took you more than a month to publish since the two above-mentioned leaders signed up — after which the resolution is dated February 21st and was published in the Official Journal of Galicia on March 27th — all those doubts which I shall try to convey in a very brief manner. That it is already serious enough that a responsible Education Council, as is supposed to be the Education Council, takes one month to publish in the Official Journal of Galicia a resolution on which it has been sued during this course sufficiently clearly and in advance. I suppose you know that today there are still teachers and teachers in the institutes of this autonomous community that I am not able to explain clearly how the qualification between 10 and 14 will be obtained, i.e. those two subjects that are useful for raising the qualification of access to university, in addition to what is obtained in the general part, because they haven't published it in sufficient advance, because they haven't explained it enough. And I'm sorry to hear how professional this guild is in this situation, that this situation is not attributable to the teacher's inability to understand the normative texts but to improvisation. And that improvisation has only one responsibility, and that one responsible -- and this is the Galician Parliament, this is not a technical education commission -- this political leader is the People's Party, it's the People's Party of Spain and it's the Galician People's Party. In that resolution there are doubts about three aspects basically. And I insist: it's not a purely technical matter, but it has an important transcendence. One of them is the exemption from Language Galician subjects for those students who have not graduated from the first bachelor's degree in this autonomous community because they have either made a stay in the foreign to take the first course or were in another autonomous community in this state. I know what the answer will be; of course, from a technical point of view it is. I mean, these students have no right to the exemption from Galician Language in the second grade of Bachelor's degree, that's what I know, and therefore, as the proof refers to the second grade, they have to necessarily examine that matter. But that's not the legal security context with which these students went out to take the first bachelor's degree in the past. Of course, at that time you had enough parliamentary majority in the state, and, therefore, in the Congress of Deputies, to endure this organic law of education; now you do not have it and you are obliged to, firstly, to deactivate the need to overcome the evaluation of the Bachelorate to obtain the title. That's what we already know doesn't exist at the moment; we trust it to continue to be like this. But they also saw the obligation to mount simultaneously or alternatively a system so that these second-grad students could access the university. If this was little, this legal insecurity that is created to them, that scenario change, turns out that the Ciuga published on its website — which seems to be the official model now so that the citizenry must understand that we are already informed of the regulations to be published, not the official newspapers, but the website—two different weights—seemingly—even though I also know that the Education Council has no direct competence over the university organization, I also know—I am not going to blame it myself, I'm sorry—but I would also have to tell the universities in Galicia that this subject was tranent enough for them to be a little more careful—we are talking about the highest academic institutions in our autonomous community—with what they publish, because it generated, of course, protests, and they realized that things were not too well done. And we also have the problem -- and so the people's valet recognizes it -- of the legal insecurity and the possible challenges of the process that generates the fact that there are students who are going to access the university without having passed the old selectivity or the new test of the bachelor's degree for access to the university. And I also know that the Education Council is not responsible, since it is based on what the Ministry of Education itself has established. But this Ministry of Education, Counsellor, also has a political leader, who is his minister and also a spokesperson for the Government of the State. And that improvisation, that doesn't realize that this situation is going to happen, says little of that permanent maxim that you have every time they intervene that they're responsible governments, governments that plan the performance in advance enough, governments that analyze which are all possible scenarios that can be presented. So I repeat: compatibility between reality and its little theory. So what I'm asking you here is not a technical explanation; this is not a technical forum; it's the Galician Parliament. I want to say that what I want is a political response and to know what valuation is done from his advice on the fact that the valet of the people has opened up this investigation by office, and if they're going to take some action, I know that, obviously, no, because selectivity, ABAU — sorry — is going to be within two weeks, on June 7, 8 and 9, but I suppose they'll have some foresight about the possible resources and challenges that can be generated as a result of this new model. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u200	Well, good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, you are telling me about political and technical issues. This answer that I will make, which obviously has a political character, is clearly supported by a reflection and a technical analysis of the whole process that you have raised here. Because you have doubts about techniques, and based on these doubts, you build a political discourse, but of course, we're talking about the fact that these dubious techniques that give you for your political discourse have a technical and legal response that I'll try to explain to you in the best way possible. And concerning what I'm asking about, we're of the opinion that an investigation should be initiated by the office. Look, we have the utmost respect for the institution of the People's Valedor, which we do understand this group, and this Government understands this, that it is absolutely neutral in its development or in the development of its activities. Another thing is that you always get right; that's different. I would also like to say that there are groups in this House that do not make this reflection and that do a constant attack on this institution. Not you, of course, or your group, but yes some groups that when the waters go their way look at the institution of the People's Valedor and put it in value, and when they don't go on their way, they put it -- as you usually say -- the broth literally, and forgive me the expression. But also tell him that in this particular case he had immediate information that clarified the doubts that were raised and that everything became very clear. And also to say another political issue, Mr Álvarez, that you also deserve me a great deal of respect as a professional of the education system, no doubt, and also as a Member, of course, but I believe that in this interpellation and in this initiative you have not been — as you say in a politically gentle manner — fortunately. Because we see that there is a lot of tactics and a lack of responsibility, because this and this debate are not new in this Parliament; there was very little time in C4, in Commission 4a, the Director General of Education answered to you everything he had to say. Subsequently, you politically took a round of arrests where, to some extent, they said questions — and they are recorded in Parliament's file — different from those you practically said in the questions in this case to the Director General. I think here what you're trying to generate is some noise, some alarm and say, taking your words, you said in that commission that the issues you were raising were already in the way and that the general director's answer had been perfectly in this line. But, well, I respect Parliament, I'm going to answer the questions you're asking. And I'll say that the current situation of ABAU, of the former selectivity, today's evaluation for university access, because the current situation is the result of a process of dialogue that occurred at the end of 2016 between the Government and all political forces in all autonomous communities. And what we're doing is developing the agreement at that time between the Government, the autonomous communities and, by extension, the different political parties within a different political framework, as is the search for a social and political pact for education. I deny the greatest, we absolutely deny the greatest. You claim there's legal insecurity and there's not enough indications to fix that legal security. Well, I'll give you the data. No doubt enough indications were given for the test through the resolution published by the Council, so instructions are given for the completion, within the course that is about to end, of the bachelor's degree assessment for access to university. This resolution — or is the important one — that you quote comes to collect in a single text the elements applicable in the process of access to university for this course. It's an important text that, in some way, what it does is to give certainty and guide the education system. Other autonomous communities, of course, did not make any kind of resolution in this area. And also tell him that from the very first moment, from the zero minute, both the Junta and the Ciuga, in this case the Greek universities, worked to prove the new evaluation was practically identical to the old selectivity. And it has to be said that this objective has been achieved and the current evidence is very similar, almost identical to the previous tests of selectivity. And by focusing on the three questions that you raised and which were clarified in this case to the people's valet, with regard to the exemption from the second-second-year Bac's Galician Language test in July last year, the rules that would rule out the final assessment were already established. In those rules, it was said that the subjects were part of the evidence, in particular, all the trunks, two subjects of trade and a specific matter. The Galician Language is trunk, with which, logically, if there is a resolution that says so, it will come in. Subsequently, there were changes in this rule, but they did not in any case affect the composition of the subjects to be evaluated within the ABAU process. Decree 310/2016 of 29 July 2016 has already been included in this decree of 2016 the final assessment on the matter of Galician Language and Literature 2 for the whole student of Greek, bringing out the alleged very taxed. I mean, every graduate student started the course with a very clear standard of the need to do the test in English because it's a trunk lesson, which is nothing smaller and which, obviously, is a subject that goes through the academic course, too in the end, is evaluated within the ABAU, with which there is not in any way any extraordinary matter. And with regard to the exemptions proposed. Here is where there is a change with respect to the previous system, where those students who ran first off were exempt, but because it was a different system, because the evaluation that was made was of all the trunks, both first and second; now it is made of the trunks of the second, with which there is no insecurity because at the time there was already a decree that regulated all this. I mean, in the exemption from Greek since June 2016 nothing has changed at all. Regarding the repeater student, the application or the current circumstances are found in the reading of an order, an order that is the Order 1941/2016, published in the BOE of December 23, 2016. Two possibilities are set here for students who have suspended the old selectivity and have approved the second of a bac: and they can choose, first, not to present themselves to the test and use as an average cut-off note to access the university the note they had, or to introduce themselves to ABAU and climb the note; always thinking of the student, for the benefit of the student. I don't know, Your Honor, why do you think this can generate some kind of uncertainty or insecurity when it's covered in an Order of December 23, 2016 and it's a matter for students. And with regard to weighting on evaluable materials, what you say from 10 to 14. Here you say it's a university responsibility through the Claw. I understand that you are aware that this issue is a matter of university, of the university system. Obviously, what is being considered here is that subjects can be considered to increase the grade if a student wants to do so. In this case, published on 22 March 2017, the subjects' weightings were published on the Ciuga website. It is true that there was a small revolt and three-four days later there was a meeting driven by the Councillory so that, in some way, there was an adjustment in this matter. And at all times there was a fantastic collaboration between the university and the Galician board to generate certainty in this area and reduce improvisation in any case. I believe that the technical answer, Mr. Álvarez, is covered by order publications, decrees published in official bulletins; I believe that technical, technical and legal responses are met, to which you say. And with regard to the political issue, I repeat to you what I said at the outset: you are truly giving the rank of office research that has undertaken the people's valet with total and maximum respect within your faculties, which does not mean that the conclusions that the people's valet makes are the right ones, because as I have just demonstrated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u201	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u202	...there is legal support, in any case legal support that gives the necessary legal security to the student in this entire process. And, of course — I insist — this group, this political party and this government have the utmost respect for the institution of the People's Valedor. And we'd like you as much as we put that in value, and when it's attacked, sometimes with very rough words for political formations present in this House, you're also going to stand up for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez González. Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks on the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u204	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the truth is that you leave me in a situation where I am obliged to defend the position of the parliamentary group with regard to the valet of the people and the initiative is not going to do so. So, if you have... No, no, the initiative won't question the people's valet, that's obvious. Another thing is that the People's Valuer, as an institution, initiates an act of office, which is given due explanations and closes that investigation, considers that the explanations given to him by the Administration are sufficient and that's enough. But that's how far we've reached an agreement. Now that you tell me that my questioning questions the people's valet, frankly, is forcing a lot of argument. I daren't make any resemblance to philosophy because I've got Mr. Fernández Gil looking after me, don't go after some other interpellation saying, you said that. Look, I really appreciate it, because I didn't know you were doing my press rounds and analyzing the coherence between what is said in the commission and what is said in a press round, but I said exactly the same thing. Order your press office to compare something they said in the press conference other than the commission. We are going to present here the initiatives that we consider relevant, as you say, as the Galego Nationalist Block says, as En Marea says, because for that we are parliamentarians, that is why the Parliament of Galicia is. And, therefore, we are not going to allow any group to question the suitability of either political or other initiatives that we have brought to this Parliament, as you did anything else that you started your intervention, saying it wasn't very thin, in a Max Mix kind that is now both political and technical. The point is that our plea, our question in committee, literally copies what the people's valet research says. And I told him. Of course, I understand that the problem is complex, it's complex, because it's supposed that a political party is using the investigation of the office of an institution of size, of the solvency of the People's Valedor to ask in a Parliament. But don't distract yourself, we're not questioning the figure of the people's valet. If you think I haven't been very thin politically, well, I'm going to leave it in the glass area of everyone's political valuations. Then it's true that there's no truth or certainty. Look, I asked you for an assessment of the political uncertainty that it generates, because you are politically responsible; the party that supports you as Education Counsellor is responsible in the State and is responsible in this Autonomous Community for the situation in which we find ourselves. I asked him for an explanation that I know he won't give me, but he repeats it in case he hasn't given him time to point it out: do you think it'll take more than a month to publish a resolution in the Galician Official Journal of an agreement on this transcendence? Is that giving priority to a problem? A month. Home!, if there were no precedents that in the Official Journal of Galicia, if it is necessary, if you publish one day for another an agreement, I would say: no, it is impossible. But since you don't have to go to the hemerothecs to see that reality, I repeat to you: do you consider it responsible if it took more than a month to publish that resolution? I told you before, and you nodded, because we both know what it is like: coordination between universities is a matter that is part of university autonomy, but you said that... you said it in a subtle way, so we didn't know much that the Council had to put a little order in that revolt that they mounted at universities -- and I quote literally -- with the weighting of the notes from the optional part of the bachelor's evaluation test for access to university. And look, there's a problem with the insecurity of the process. There's a problem because we can have a problem with the grade of students who won't do the bachelor's degree evaluation, who choose to go with their bachelor's degree to university access and their relative position in those titrations that have a problem with access and therefore a cut-off note. We can have a problem, and you know it perfectly well. I'm not going to generate an alarm situation here, but insecurity and I think the people's valet, precisely the valet we have now, some security and legal insecurity will know when it makes such an assertion. Then, of course, we can have a problem, which we hope will not give, because it's not about any student or student in this autonomous community being harmed because of their lack of impulse and their bluntness in defending a rule that, at the end of the day, we have to park year by year, course by year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u205	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u206	...to get stabilized. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Álvarez, I didn't accuse the PSOE or your group of attacking the people's Valedor institution, nor do you understand that this group will be attacking the people's valet position. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks words that are not perceived.]] I'm just telling you that you're aware that you're using information — other groups are doing it, we're aware that other groups are doing it, with a lack of respect for an institution like the People's Valedor -- that comes out of this institution to raise a political reading that is based on technical issues that have been explained. I give you the information about the orders, the decrees, with publication dates, with the anticipated times, with enough times, absolutely enough -- I'm talking about last year, before the summer of last year -- where you fix the issues you're asking me about, and you come to tell me that we're questioning the investigation. At no time do we question the investigation. What I'm telling you is that of the topics that are raised, you said it because I saw the video — if you do an interpellation that reproduces a question that you ask in a C4, you will understand that I'm concerned about what you said in that C4, and you literally say: the issues you were asking would be overcome by the passage of time and also by the explanations given. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Not explanations, but to remember the specific moments when orders, according to you, generate legal insecurity, because they have been published. With which, obviously, they can present what they want, I would miss more!, as this group also poses what they want. But what is not less true is that they should be more prudent when everything you're asking for is backed up by publications in the corresponding state-owned official bulletins in some case, in which the dates are fixed and the issues you're saying are fixed. Because, of course, you're talking about a resolution, but this resolution — and I'm sure you know it, I'd miss it, I'm sure you know it — might not have been done. In fact, you're communicating autonomous PSOEs didn't. Why is this resolution made? It was designed to group together in a single document rules or principles that were dispersed in different orders or decrees. Some autonomous PSOE communities didn't even do it. So this is done to make it easier for professionals to interpret and manage this very important evaluation. You support yourself in a very weak argument, because the non-exemption from Galicia comes from June 2016. Also from 2016 it comes when we speak that repeaters, for their benefit, have two options: either apply for a grade based on the average grade you have in bac or do the test if you want to go up note so you can access a career that doesn't give you your average grade as a cut-off note, to benefit the student clearly. In the previous case, a trunk that is studied in the second because it examines in the evaluation because it has been so since 2016. And with regard to the Ciuga, man!, you know that the Ciuga is a university organ and that this group has done a very good job, a great job. And here I claim the work that Ciuga did, you questioned it; you are questioning the work of Ciuga and I claim here the work of Ciuga, because it was able, at a time of normative change, to adapt the whole process of the old selectivity, current ABAU, to the new situation. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez: No.]] And we didn't question it at any time, just when there were some doubts what we did was: let's see what happens here, in three-four days everything was clarified on the website. With which I greatly value the work of the Ciuga, which has done a work not only of adaptation but also of information to very important educational centers, always generating calm and always sending calm messages to the educational community. I think questioning the work of the Blind in this case is politically a disproportion, an attempt to kick this government and this party using institutions that don't deserve any kind of political attack. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u209	Thank you very much, Counselor. We moved on to the next interpellation. D. Antón Sánchez García and 13 other members of the G.P. of En Marea on the development of the new map of transport of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u210	Mrs. Angeles Cuña has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u211	Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. This questioning has to do with Galician public transport and is a very pending subject. If we remember, in 2009, Law 5/2009 was adopted, urgent measures for the modernization of the public transport sector in Galicia, and its government brought this law into force but without taking into account that a regulation of the European Union already existed on 13/2007, which had entered into force before this resolution. The National Markets and Competition Commission therefore appealed. That appeal was brought to the High Court of Justice, and the High Court of Justice ruled that it was not under the law you brought into force. The first question that raises this question is: what did they do in eight years? What did they do in eight years with a country that needs very solid public transport and mostly integrated into a plan, not patched up? You seem to have made the laws thinking of tailor-made suits for certain companies that have certain interests. It seems they only acted when there was a firm judgement of the High Court. Despite all this, after the Supreme Court has annulled the extension of the deadlines for the validity of those concessions provided for by law, you must schedule the work without prejudice to the bet for the maintenance, updating and modernization of services. And, on the other hand, after the decision of the Supreme Court on the extension of deadlines and concessions, which had established Law 5/2009, the third article laid down the rules for ensuring the continuity of the provision of transport services for the time needed for the development of planning works and the new design of services, facilitating the maintenance of relevant actions and the modernisation of the sector provided for in that law. In 2016, you made a new law, which we can consider improvised and quite cheating. That law, why is it improvised and cheated? Because they really had to make an amendment to the 2017 Accompanying Act. And that obliges them, within twenty-one months since the entry into force of the Act 10/2016, to guarantee the new transport contracts, and within that transitional period which lays down Regulation 1370/2007. If it was not enough, therefore, with this law of 2016, five months later in the Accompanying Law take this set of measures. Well, what's clear and it's important is that demands must be met, mobility must be solved, and you can do it in an innovative way. We believe that if there were spatial planning, if there were metropolitan areas, if there were districts, if there were supra-municipal structures, it would be much easier. But what we've observed is that in eight years they're practically doing nothing, they make the laws tailor-made for companies, they only act when there are firm judgments, they make hasty laws, they have to modify them five months later, and there's no country project for rural people with clear and solid objectives either. We believe that they act with fundamentally economical criteria and that it won't be worth a return, a return that especially to the provinces of Ourense and Lugo is very important for abandonment, and we know the problem of population. The Directorate-General for Mobility does not have enough resources to plan a policy in a hurry, since in the last three and a half years there have been four general directors. All of this we think is accompanied by a great opacity throughout the process. We don't know anything. That, yes, we know -- because it went out in the press today -- that on May 30 there's a public exhibition and that the new map will be made with the bus routes, which will be used to replace in the first phase six hundred lines that will disappear in August; August is the sword. Among other measures to optimize the service, it will promote the integration of school routes and regular transport. Well, let's say that, apart from considering that public transport is a right of the entire population and that economic criteria should not prevail over the social and right criteria of the population, we believe that this is a vicious little circle of abandonment that can increase the aging of the abandonment of rural areas. From our point of view, the design of public promotion and transport must also be an element that helps to change dynamics, although in the short term it may not seem profitable. The interior of the country demands it and we can't harm the provinces of the interior with a decrease in public services. For all this, we present the following question: First of all, what is the assessment of the social participation process supposedly carried out for the development of the new Transport Map? Because we know they talked to the companies, we know they talked to some group of taxi drivers, but they didn't talk... we know they did a survey, that's yes, that cost 1 million euros, an inquiry directed to several municipalities with a 30 percent peak response. Second, what criteria will prevail in the adoption of the Galician Public Transport Plan? Third, is this plan bound up in a project for the Brazilian rural with clear objectives and criteria? How many lines can be removed? Did you take the one from Castile and Lion as a model? What is the methodology for processing and implementing the survey done? We know that many mayors have received this survey, a standard survey, which has given fairly standardized answers and that do not solve the real need of our country. So, one last question after this new one that appeared today, if on May 30 the public exhibition is going to be done and as if collected in the media 10 days ago nothing more, do you think this is enough time to solve the problem? I would add one more question: does it reflect the concern of small businesses that fear to be swallowed up by large companies or friendly companies that we all know and work constantly with Joina like Monbus? Or how will all this important design be carried out to vertebrate the country? Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u212	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cuña. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u213	Thank you. Mrs. Cuña, I really appreciate you asking about this issue and bringing to this House the new road passenger transport map in Galicia; an important matter, which is taking very much of the time of the Council and which will continue to occupy us in this legislation much of the work. What we want and what we're working on is to give the neighbors and neighbors solutions to transport. We've been working very hard for a lot of months, a lot of people for a long time to offer solutions, to reorder and modernize the entire public road passenger transport system in Galicia, to increase quality, not only to stay these lines, but to increase quality, to increase territorial coverage throughout Galicia, with special attention to rural areas. We want competitive transport, we want useful, efficient and sustainable public transport. You understand me well with the word "sustainable", which is also environmentally sustainable, of course. I think I value as an opportunity the interpellation that I make today to transfer the details of the strategic planning of the Council, not for this month of August, but for the whole legislation, a schedule of actions that we are going to carry out very clearly. Of course, it's a very important challenge; it's a challenge because we want to completely reorder the entire road transport map of travellers in Galicia. And, of course, it's a challenge we have ahead of us to -- I insist -- increase public service and increase territorial coverage in terms of public service, i.e. by long-distance bus. To put it into context, in context that you went to the year 2009, I think we have to take a look and go a little further; go, for example, to the year 2007. It is in 2007 when Community Regulation 1370/2007 is known; therefore, it is in 2007 when it is known and known that it is a Community regulation which already prohibits extensions and concessions. Thus, in 2007, ruling the Bipartite, it was already known that the concessions would expire, and nothing was done at all during the Bipartite since 2007, which was already known to be the Community regulation affecting the extensions of the concession. He has not taken any measures to give stability to the 5,000 people working in this road transport sector in Galicia. And in 2009, because this Community regulation that was already known in 2007 came into force in 2009, in record time, the previous adviser had to do in six months what the Bipartite did in several years. Immediate, reasonable and agreed response to the sector. And so this is the reality because the metropolitan transport plan was at stake in the areas, the public transport by road of road travellers was at stake and the labour stability of the five thousand families working in the transport sector in Galicia was also at stake. [[Applause]] The Bipartite therefore did nothing during those years; it was the current Government planning, solving and offering solutions, working and doing what no others did. Following this effort, it was Law 5/2009, which you commented on urgent measures, and then — as you know — because the Supreme Court, in March 2016, once again places us on the expiration stage of concessions. And again we're working on a new standard to shield public transport by road to our neighbors and to the Greeks and to give stability to these five thousand families as well. Does it look like a piece of legislation that blinds public road passenger transport in Galicia? Of course, I don't have an armory to shield public transport by road in Galicia and to shield and give stability to the 5,000 families who live and work in the transport sector. A law which provides for the global reorganisation of the entire Transport Map in Galicia, which we are obliged by law to make a new Transport Plan to modernise transport, so that it is more useful, to ensure uninterrupted public service provision, to continue existing contracts, and to tender for new services. [[Applause]] Some companies have exercised their right to give up certain transport lines. Companies were forced to be twelve more months on this service until August 2017. And — as you know — certain companies in the sector have given up, almost 50% in the provinces of Lugo and Ourense. And despite the fact that this law already imposed two deadlines for having a new road passenger transport plan in Galicia, because we speeded up this process with the new service map, to ensure the continuity of public transport in many areas of Galicia. Because that's our red line: ensuring public transport and continuing to have transport services. And that's why we planned the necessary work in two phases. A first phase, which we speed up as a result of the resignations of certain transport companies; this first phase is August 2017. And what we want is to ensure and even improve public transport in those areas where business resignations have been made. And the second phase that will be in 2019. Depending on the results achieved during the participatory process and during this first phase we will implement, as I say, in this second phase in 2019 the whole new map of all Galicia. Of course, what we see in this new Public Transport Plan in Galicia is an opportunity, an opportunity to reorder, modernize and adapt transport to the real needs of Galician neighbours. For us, it's a need for a country. And what happened is as a result of the resignations was to speed up this first phase of August this year. So an opportunity that we want to take advantage of and that we want to carry out, therefore a complete and intense restructuring of the Road Transport Map and adapted to the needs of the Greeks. So a clear schedule, a clear roadmap, a clear timetable, what we believe in, and what we're working on with a new Transport Map. These services will be operational in August 2017. We have invested in this complete reformulation to carry out studies, studies of this first phase. We divided Galicia into six territorial areas to carry out these studies and we carried out these work all these months in several stages. In 2016 we auctioned and assisted six studies to order all this public transport in these areas; we developed a comprehensive regulation to carry out this first phase immediately and reorder this first phase of the new Public Transport Map; we regulate the integration of school and regular transport — a new formula that we believe is achievable — and also the adjudication procedure, also the possibility of TEUs; and we work in these six areas, we have the current diagnosis. Of course we held meetings with municipalities, with unions, with the ANPA, with the Fegamp. Full public participation, fourteen informative days with the municipalities. [[Applause]] And also surveys, surveys in which I strongly say that 1 million euros has not been invested; it is well informed. We don't invest 1 million euros in those surveys that you say. We looked at 279 municipalities, they answered only the survey 169 municipalities; it wasn't an examination, it was a survey to propose the considerations they had considered. You also investigate users. We have already referred to all the offers of school transport to evaluate those synergies that we see positive in order to give greater territorial coverage of transport. And that's why after all this work we're laying the foundations of what we want to define in these new public transport maps for this year. The new Transport Line Map — which I can put forward — is what I've already brought forward and I've informed the Fegamp, the municipalities, all the municipalities in the metropolitan transport commissions I've had the opportunity, also the ANPAs, also all the transport federations, and that it's going to be zonal contracts; it's not going to be individual lines but only zone contracts to take advantage of synergies and also for a more streamlined management of transport. We will also bet on the partial integration of school transport and the general transport of passengers in certain areas, because we see it as an opportunity. And, of course, it will prioritize the needs of the student. Public information will be submitted on the next 30th and we will certainly start new contracts with greater coverage for this month of August. To give some data: we will multiply by almost four the population benefited, for example, between Lugo and Terra Chá, to provide greater transport service. So -- I'm done now -- clear planning, clear roadmap, clear schedule, to adapt public transport to the real needs of the Greeks, intense work, management for a more attractive, more useful, more efficient transport from an environmental point of view and, of course, to take the bus where necessary at any time, we don't want buses without passengers and travellers without buses...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u214	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u215	A great challenge we have ahead of us and, of course, we are focusing our efforts. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u216	Thank you very much, Counselor. She's got the replica of Mrs. Ánxeles Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u217	We were talking before the vicious circles. He said, "Take a circle, light it up, and you'll have a vicious circle." We want the virtuous circle. What do I mean? For she who has little humility the Counselor when she says that the Bipartite is a vicious circle, indeed, it is good to always return to the Bipartite. They had eight years to... what's the matter, you want to tell me something? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, do you want to tell me something? So you can't dialogue and I ask for respect, okay? I ask for respect! I'm replacing a fellow whom they called attention three times with a different rod of measuring with that bench over ours. [[Applause]] Then, I beg your respect! [[Applause]] Yeah, it's a joke, the joke is they're always with the Bipartite around. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's true that you made a law in 2009, okay? The Bipartite had been before. European law is 2007. Indeed, we agree. The European law has told them that they are failing to comply with European law. So that failure, which was quite systematic, is something that you have to assume. Don't talk about others, talk about what you've done. First question. We fully agree with the need to reorganize, modernize, but you have suspended the subject of territorial management and transparency. This is our analysis. It'll seem like a challenge to you, all right, face the challenge. A challenge that comes with delay, a challenge that had to climb properly over these eight years, and so now they wouldn't work with precipitation. Talk about a chance. Well, let's also talk about weaknesses or strengths. What was the weakness? I haven't considered a comprehensive plan for our country. These six zones, all right. But now it turns out that ten days in time for companies to be able to analyze and choose, does it seem long enough? We don't think so. So, what do you want to increase the quality? Great. We'll see if there's facts and not just words. And it's a joke that sets a law in 2016 and at four months, which is when we're all here, you have to change it this way. It seems like a joke to us. And then he says they've already talked to all the agents involved. I don't think they talked to all the agents involved. And we don't have to solve it here, but a pretty deep and quite important issue is to consider that school transport should also be a transport of users in general. If we're aware that there are areas that need transport, because they don't have it, very well, there's a solution to these areas. But they think carefully about whether school transportation is a solution. It's done well because school transportation for many people in the educational community has to be a continuation of schools, where also children and girls must learn attitudes, especially those of early age. And you can tell me that it's an opportunity for cohabitation, I don't deny it, but I'm telling you to deepen a little bit on this subject, which is a delicate subject, at least. With regard to strategic planning, if there was a rationalized, well-temporized management, that schedule made in time and in shape, they wouldn't have to live this aggression and this precipitation now. And, of course, ensuring the service of our people, especially rural people, is a necessary bet. With regard to modernization, it must also be borne in mind that you did not accept European lines of innovation, and that if other communities were welcomed with excellent results, in which the transfer of experiences with Germany, France and even with Teruel, which has as much or more dispersion as we were. Here they did not welcome these European plans and it would be an opportunity — speaking of opportunities — excellent to modernise and bring transport to truly sustainable levels and levels of eco-maintainment as well. There are many formulas and you haven't talked enough — we believe — about service to demand, which we believe is important also to see how they can pose. And, of course, we also think about the families of transporters, but we think about most of the thousands of people in our entire population, we think of everyone. And so they take solutions. I'm excited about the challenge and I hope we see a plan as we wish — I believe — all of us here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Closure round, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u219	Thank you, President. Mrs. Cuña, there's no improvisation or precipitation, as you move. I think I made it clear that there is a very clear roadmap, a first phase that is August of this year, a second phase that is 2019. And, of course, we have a comprehensive policy at the Galician Union to enhance our Greek countryside. I was talking about a participatory process, and of course there was a participatory process. I insist: we meet with lots of agents, with all the transport agents and associations, with the unions, with the ANPA, with the municipalities, with the Fegamp. Dialogue and collaboration with the municipalities, of course, yes; so last October, when we bid the new studies, we sent a letter to all the municipalities to get them to know. Territorial work tables, we had different work tables where we called the municipalities, fourteen specific meetings to comment on this new road map we have, this new strategic planning. We took every opportunity to talk about this new process, and the Metropolitan Transport Commissions were a suitable forum for moving this entire process. And the surveys I was commenting on earlier, I believe that all administrations should collaborate and engage in this new process that we have before us. This is what the president of the Fegamp, by the way, said, who even gave up the effort of the Galician Union in this challenge that we have ahead of us. And that's why I think it would also be good for you to have transferred this importance to the municipalities where they rule and involve themselves, because, of course, improving the transport of the Greeks is everyone's business. And, therefore, the municipalities also have within their powers the lines of municipal interest that are carried out within the municipal territory itself. Those are not the competence of the Galician Union. And rural people also need those lines of municipal interest within the municipality itself. And we, of course, in the German Government think about rural, we have a country project that thinks about and looks at the German countryside with a transversal policy, and that redefinition of the Transport Map enters into that transversal policy. We want to increase the quality and give maximum coverage in transport, let transport reach everyone, with the introduction of new systems with transport to demand, with the prior reservation system of pre-established lines, and to, of course, bring more services to more people, especially in rural areas, and taking advantage of the synergies that I was discussing in my first intervention of integration of school transport. Last week I met the ANPA. Share this philosophy that we have in the German Government with an opportunity to improve the mobility of our rural population in the integration of school transport. It was also shared this philosophy with Fegamp's own president. Of course, an opportunity to improve mobility, generational exchange and neighborhood exchange. I'll give you an example. As you know, I grew up in Ponteceso, and in Ponteceso, the public school Eduardo Pondal -- where I also studied -- and the health center is next to each other. And I think it's good that a grandpa can accompany his grandson to the stop, get on the bus and the boy goes to school and grandpa to his appointment from the medical center. In Cabana de Bergantiños — also next to Ponteceso — the school is also next to the Town Hall and also next to the health center. I think it's logical, reasonable and good for a father to accompany his son, take a bus, and the boy goes to school and the father's going to run the county. So, hundreds and hundreds of places we have as examples. [[Applause]] So we believe that it is a good measure and a good opportunity to improve the mobility of our neighbours, especially rural, that this will be a measure for rural people. And with that goal we took a new step today. At today's Council we approve and authorize this integration, where we consider it necessary that integration of school transport and general transport. Guaranteed places for students, this will be shielded and will remain armored, but we will offer more stops and more coverage to rural people and to improve their mobility. Followers on every line, of course. So we're going to increase the number of escorts on the bus lines. We will increase almost 10% or the number of escorts. And this pilot experience of this first phase in August this year will serve to improve the second phase that we will have in 2019. And I wanted to tell you something. You know what this is? We all know it's a blank sheet, but it's the proposal for transport of the governments of En Marea and Podemos. And if you don't ask concierge Daniel Grandio of the Crown, because that was the proposal he made to me in the last follow-up commission to talk about transport, a blank sheet. And we don't have blank sheets, we have a clear schedule, a clear planning: modernize and reorder transport; of course, broaden their needs, more opportunities. [[Applause]] Our proposal is not a blank sheet, we have proposals, new formulas, ideas, contracts and exploitative projects that we will already give to public information. So a challenge we have ahead of us for more opportunities but not a blank sheet. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u220	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until sixteen and fifteen, four and a quarter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u221	Good afternoon, let's resume the session. Before we get on the agenda, I would like to remind all Members of the House, if you will give me a second, something we have commented on the other day, and you are not allowed to record in the Chamber. I ask everyone, please, to comply with the Rules of Procedure. It is covered by the Regulation — in particular Article 66.3 — which is not allowed to record in the Chamber. I'm not going to say now who recorded it and who didn't record it, but it's reflected on the networks. I therefore ask you — on this side and on this side — to comply with the Rules of Procedure, which we have for this purpose. Recording and taking photos in the hemicycle is not allowed. I think it is quite clear what the regulation says. I'm warning you, it's the second time I'm warning you, but it's for everyone's sake. The regulation is for us to comply. We're going into the government's questions. Question by Mr Jaime Castineira Broz and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the new programmes launched or planned by the Government of Greece on housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u222	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u223	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, good afternoon. Counsellor, first of all, I wanted to begin by congratulating the workers of the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil, workers and workers who have done commendable work over the years. And I think we must congratulate them from here, from here, from Parliament; to them, of course, their team from the Council, as well as their work. And I say this because we have lived through these years a complicated stage, primarily driven by the situation of the economic crisis, but especially in the access to housing for those most disadvantaged, most needy families, including refugees. And you, from the Council — of course, along with the workers and workers — were able to give solution and response to the vast majority of those situations that occurred at that time. And that is why I think they deserve a congratulations, at least from the honourable Member who speaks to them, who is aware of the work and the trajectory of these people. And I say they were able to find solutions to the problems that many neighbors and neighbors of our community had in spite of -- and we have to say -- some mayors, especially those who sound the cities where they have the most problems and problems there are and there have been challenges over the years. I am talking especially about the Coruña and Vigo — or Vigo and the Coruña — where instead of supporting, helping and collaborating with the Council — how the administrations should do — instead of summarizing efforts, what they have done has been set in motion to create problems. It is, of course, a way to make politics, which is that of victimism; and therefore, the worse, the better, the better, that that is what certain political parties seem to beg. In spite of that, if there has been a solution since the Council. On the other hand, we want to know — and in that sense the question is addressed — what are the new programmes that are under way and what are the new programmes that are intended to be put in the future on the subject of rehabilitation by the Council. Because we understand that rehabilitation is one of the fundamental factors for access to housing. We are aware of the sensitivity in this area of the Council and the Counsellor, but we want to know exactly what these programs are putting in place. Rehabilitation brings added value, in relation to the construction of new housing, in several ways, in several factors, so to speak: lower consumption of natural resources, better use of existing housing park, recovery of heritage and construction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u224	Thank you, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u225	...—ending, Mr President, and a dynamising factor in economic activity and employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u226	Thank you very much. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u227	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the Council of Galicia is right that it has a wide range of measures to help with housing, because one of the objectives is to promote access to housing for those people who need it most, also to improve living conditions — because that means improving quality of life — without losing sight of the positive impact that rehabilitation has on employment and the economy. This is what the programmes we have been running for a long time, and we have many examples: the areas of integral rehabilitation, which are included in the ARI of the Santiago Road — in 2017, EUR 12 million —; the aid to rural inviolence; the aid to rural rehabilitation and historical sets; the social welfare bonus, this aid for the most disadvantaged people, in which we have been awarded 330 social bonuses; the program of empty housing, which means moving from a bunch of unemployed housing to a social housing bag — are 44 councils of different political colors which are now members, and we already have families, many families, who are benefiting themselves. And we will join in this year 2017 new rehabilitation programs to help families. Because we are convinced that rehabilitation is an effective channel to improve living conditions and also a social cohesion mechanism to help the most disadvantaged families. I'm referring to new programs this year 2017, such as energy efficiency aids, which we've already called for, so that municipalities with housing on their property can rehabilitate their homes, with EUR 500,000 for this year. There are also direct aid programmes by the Galician Board for public promotion housing — EUR 1.2 million already bided this year, and we will bid approximately EUR 1 million —; loans without interest for individuals — EUR 500,000 — and also the cooperation fund with the municipalities that we will launch in the near future, with EUR 10 million, to help and to grant loans without interest to the municipalities of less than 50,000 implementing rehabilitation actions. Also the rehabilitation of teachers' homes, with EUR 400,000 this year; the Rexurbe Programme, to allocate EUR 3.5 million in rehabilitation of important historical helmets in Greek —Betanzos, Ourense, Mondoñedo, Lugo —. And there's also new programs that I'm sure they'll have a very good welcome for their social impact. I'm talking about the Rehaluga Programme, a pioneering social initiative in Galicia and the state, which will complement the Empty Housing Programme. We are talking about an in-depth help for the owners who want to rehabilitate their homes and make them available to families with social needs — EUR300,000 that we will make available in the near future — a program to promote and strengthen the program of empty housing to get more and more families, which is our goal. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u228	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Castineira's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u229	Thank you, Counselor. You ended by talking about the Rehaluga Program, that is, a program that comes to complete the Empty Housing Program, an empty housing program to which, by the way, certain municipalities were not joined. Some of them, as I said before, are Vigo's and Coruña's. And also there we can include Lugo, which, although unanimously approved in the plenary, is not yet incorporated in our county. And it has to be said that I would like, if it could be in its second intervention, that it had focused on this theme of the Rehaluga Programme, because the neighbours and neighbours of these municipalities who did not join the empty housing program will not be able — I understand — to access the subsidies and the aids to be able to manage those housing, in terms of living conditions, and then put them in a rented room. And it's curious, and it must be said, that in this matter we are once again clearly surprised by the Town Hall of the Crown and in the Tide-We can. I have here the Coruña housing program, the Town Hall housing plan. And I have to say, because it's surprising, that in all its leaves there is not a single economic figure, not one! It's a bad copy — but very bad, in addition, it has to be said — of the board's empty housing plan. I've been a concierge in Lugo for a few years now, as you know, and always to justify the lack of cooperation in housing matters. And it's funny, here's a piece of regulation here to justify this housing plan, which seems to be that the Town Hall of the Crown, at least, has competences as much as you want. What he doesn't wear is money, not a euro! Yes, we can't defend our municipal autonomy. Home!, I believe that administrations should collaborate, and from here on we must all make, indeed, all political groups, a song to that collaboration, regardless of the political color. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u230	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u231	Thank you, President. In the coming days, I would like to see the Rehaluga Programme set up — EUR 300,000 for private housing, EUR 100,000 for housing owned by municipalities or other legal persons. And the beneficiaries of this aid will be the owners of the housing that are located in the municipalities that are affiliated to the Empty Housing Program. They can therefore benefit from these dwellings located in a municipality which has signed this program of membership and empty housing, and which has registered persons seeking public housing. The subsidisable actions will be those of conservation and maintenance, and those of rehabilitation as well, to ensure the inhabitability of the housing, such as — by setting simple examples — bathroom arrangements, window fixtures, door fixtures, painting and also, in single-family homes, facades and roofs. The amount of aid will be 100 per cent of the expenditure made, with a maximum of EUR 4,000 for housing in collective buildings and 5,500 for single-family housing arrangements. And therefore, the owner, in exchange for this aid received to rehabilitate his home, will voluntarily put in this program of empty housing, his home for a period of three years with a rent taxed and reduced, therefore, with a social rent. The real beneficiaries of this program are families who have problems accessing their home, families in difficulty accessing a home. These homes will be rehabilitated and will therefore be in good living conditions for these families. And, moreover, something very important: it's compatible with the social welfare bonus that we drive and set in motion from the Galician Union. Thus, Rehaluga is a new reason for the Greek municipalities to join the Empty Housing Program because it allows the neighbours to benefit from these deeply lost help and provide the municipalities with solutions to real housing problems. So, I take this opportunity that you offer me to make a new call to those municipalities that reject the Empty Housing Program, for example A Coruña and Vigo, which is particularly worrying because it is where there are most housing problems. I invite you to join the Empty Housing Program so that you can accommodate this Rehaluga Program, because housing is a task of everyone. I think it's a good opportunity to equip all of us with more resources, to add more effort. And it's good enough, of course, to keep working while a single family is at risk of losing their housing. Therefore, I look forward to the same commitment and responsibility on the part of the Town Hall of Coruña and Vigo to adhere to this housing program. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u232	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Dolores Toja Suárez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the strategy of the Galician Union in relation to the intentions of the Ferroatlantic company to sell its hydroelectric power stations in the rivers Xallas and Grande
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u233	You have the floor to Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u234	Good afternoon. Today we published in the Official Mercantil Registry Bulletin the announcement of Ferroatlantic excision, here you have today, Wednesday, May 24. As a member of the German Government, we asked him what political valuation makes of the company's strategy. As a member of the Government, we asked you if you think that strategy is better suited to a process of optimizing productive capacity or a legal strategy to actually skip the law. Because what we see is that Ferroatlantica, little by little, is giving its passions, the steps necessary to achieve the segregation and subsequent sale of the plants, before a government that we cannot forget that September 20 has already announced in full electoral campaign that Ferroatlantica would invest in Sabón. In that announcement, he also highlighted the remarkable role of the Government in the process of dialogue with Ferroatlantics. I ask you: in that outstanding dialogue process, what happened?, did you forget to say Ferroatlantica that you needed to sell the power stations or maybe you didn't omit it but who omitted the government because that idea didn't buy it in the middle of the electoral campaign? I'm asking him, and please answer me. I also tell him that today the president told us that all the Germans and the Germans on the Death Coast could trust his word. What word? In the word he gave on September 20, when he announced that Ferroatlantic would expand his activity or today's word, May 23, when he said that he only had record of Ferroatlantic intent for four days? You say, please, because it's contradiction after constant contradiction, constantly missing the truth, in a process that already goes for a long time. On the other hand, they also asked, as you know, those technical and legal reports to arrive today prepared us to, precisely, facilitate the way to the entrepreneur Villar Mir. Of course, there's something, it's a truth, a single reality: they've put, above the interests of a whole territory, of all the Greeks and Greeks on the Coast of Death, of their families, the interests of an entrepreneur; an entrepreneur who is an example of predation of funds and public resources, because for Ferroatlantica it was necessary to expropriate the lands of the neighbours and neighbours on the Coast of Death. They even shut us down and only open it in certain dates and hours; everything according to the interests of Ferroatlantics. That is why we ask you today, on the basis of this announcement that you have made — in addition, today precisely — Ferroatlantic: what is the strategy of this government in the face of the process that we are living with Ferroatlantic? But tell us the real strategy, the real one, that they talked about in that outstanding process of dialogue on 20 September, not the strategy they're telling us all these months and that today we know -- and we're talking about -- that's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Toja, I deeply regret this lack of rigour from the Socialist Party of Galicia, and I deeply regret that you bring this to this plenary and this House successively, full after full, question after question, and, unfortunately, you give them whatever the Government tells them, will you give them the same! They want to come here to create doubts where there is no doubt, because both you and the spokesperson of En Marea this morning simply brought here the Official Gazette of the Commercial Registry... but only to read the headline, which is what they usually do, read headlines and take pictures. [[Murmurs.]] And, frankly, that's not what Ferroatlantic workers don't deserve, and workers on the Death Coast don't deserve it. Because if you read this document you'll see that this role actually means nothing. And in his language, "you're nothing." Because you know perfectly well that this split they're publishing is conditioned, it's subject to being granted the segregation of hydroelectric power stations. And therefore this document is conditioned by a government decision, which is an administrative decision and will be made according to the law; according to the law, Your Honor. So this government doesn't have any kind of political strategy, it doesn't have any kind of political valuation about what the company is doing, because this government towards the company is the only thing it has to put the law forward. And this government, in the eyes of the workers, is to comply with the law and safeguard the public interest. That's what we've been doing since 1992, what we're doing right now, and what we're going to do about the future. I know that you, or at least a part of the Socialist Party of Galicia, do not want to give validity to this absolutely rigorous approach by the Government. I'm sorry, but we will continue; we will continue to work and continue with dialogue with the workers, we will continue with dialogue with the mayors and we will continue with an absolutely clear condition towards this situation, which is to comply with the law and therefore adjust our right; secondly, we will safeguard that public interest, which logically has to watch for employment and activity on the Death Coast. That's what this government will do. I'm sorry that you come to this House just to generate doubts and not to read all the papers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u237	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u238	We all have things to regret. I regret that it is his lack of humanity and I also regret that, above the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, if they put the interests of an entrepreneur. [[Applause]] You're sorry what you want. We regret that if you are playing with families who are worried, living this process with anguish and uncertainty, not knowing what will happen to your professional future, because look at, in the end, a lot of people who are awaiting that legality of what you are talking about. He speaks of public interest, of general interest, of very good interest. In this public interest, in that general interest, what does the Costa da Morte — historically we see that very little — in that public interest and in that general interest?, even as when they decided to do, instead of extending the highway, a corridor, exposing our lives?, the same as when the sick of haemodialysis are sent to the Crown or Santiago? Is that the public interest? Every time the public interest is boosted, the general interest, on the Death Coast, we tremble, we tremble! It doesn't convince us. [[Applause]] Besides, now we're bearing, say, threats. They're telling us to see the legality, because, in any case, the company will do the same because it could get it in court. I also say the same thing to him: on what basis, on the basis of a plan of viability that is won on May 30? This plan of viability is so important and so vital for the whole region, for Sabón, for Galicia, is expired on May 30. They're exposing the blackmail of an entrepreneur. That's blackmail. A government has to keep an eye on the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks and not on the interests of the businessmen, and that's what we're seeing all this time. Anyway, when you are answering me right now, what are you answering me, on the basis of the announcement they made on September 20, according to — I ask you — with that outstanding dialogue process, or are you answering me on the basis of the request that was made four days ago? I'm sorry, but I can't trust -- neither I nor the Germans nor the Germans on the Death Coast -- in this government, which sometimes says something...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u240	...and other times again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u241	Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u242	Look, Mrs. Toja, I understand perfectly that the Socialist Party seems to be in a dynamic embrace of populism... but, unfortunately, to this House I think we have to come with rigour positions. [[Murmurs.]] Because you're talking to me about interests. They constantly want to create the doubt and talk about interests here. Look, I don't know what the interests of the opposition are, and personally I don't know what the interests the Socialist Party of Galicia might have with this strategy. But what I understand is that there is a real lack... I understand that the tide and the block have no criteria, I understand it perfectly... because when it comes to employment... I, when we talk about the situation of Ferroatlantics, understand perfectly that both the Block and the tide have no criteria. [[Murmurs.]] I'm very surprised that the Galician Socialist Party has no criteria, that's quite surprising. [[Applause]] I'm very surprised, because when you guys want to talk about jobs, they know about jobs, they want to talk about economics, they know about economics, but we get to Ferroatlantics, and they don't seem to have that criterion. [[Laughter]] In any case, we will continue with the same approach as from the very first moment. We will, indeed, continue to dialogue with the workers, of course we will; we will continue to dialogue with the mayors, of course we will, because we have come to do so, because we will continue to do so and because we will do so in the future. And any decision, once the Juridical Counsel effectively transfers the content of that report, of course we will share it with both mayors and workers, like, who are the main stakeholders, along with this government, not only in complying with the law, but logically fulfilling that public interest. And, therefore, we will continue in that direction. What I would do to him is call upon the opposition to unite, because logically we will do everything that will enable us to effectively respond to legality and also respond to that public interest. So we won't let ourselves be pressured by anyone. No matter how much they make statements or any kind of action, we will continue with that single criterion of compliance, keep in touch with the workers and mayors and, logically, we will also continue to work and watch for legality and ensure the general interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u243	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the settlement of Ence in Lourizán, in the district of Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u244	Good afternoon, Counselor. At this point it is no mystery to treat the People's Party's governments in favor of the ence-Elnosa contaminant complex. On this subject, as in the AP-9, as in the state budgets with the last cut, the People's Party of Madrid orders and the German People's Party obeys. And I would like to remind you in this sense of the attempts already since the time of Mr. Fraga's governments to impose the permanence of these contaminant industries in the Pontevedra River, with, first, the approval of the sectoral project of supramunicipal incidence and then the attempt also to bind those lands to the port of Marín, even the attempt to overthrow the municipal government, with assault to the full included, with that yellow union, yellow pseudo-union, which is its trade union arm. [[Applause]] And then Mr. Feijó came in 2009 and gave us that famous phrase -- don't I know if you wake up? -- "You can't keep Ence in the creek. We're not going to say one thing and do the opposite." This is called keeping the word, yes sir, Mr. Feijóo's word. [[Applause]] Well, after they passed the Land Management Guidelines, the Coastal Management Plan, the Pontevedra People's Party even came to propose an alternative location for the transfer of the factory... but, of course, the Madrid People's Party arrived, the IBEX companies arrived, the Management Board of the Rotary Doors, and they said who was in charge here. And, of course, they approved the amendment of the Law of Back and the extension of the grant to Cence for sixty years and they gave the companies 600,000 square metres of public land of maritime-terrestrial domain. Of course, the Council of Pontevedra has already announced and is carrying out a genuine judicial battle, a political battle, to prevent this attack, and we are going to resort to all instances to prevent it. At the same time, you processed integrated environmental authorization, they gave you successive extensions, despite the company's environmental failures and irregularities, with permanent spills, and now we're waiting for you to tell us what's going on with the construction of the new emissary and also with the new Praceres debugger, because you announced the preliminary drafts for the first quarter of 2017 and at the moment, we don't know anything. We don't know about Costas' decision on these lands, either. And the same in the case of Elnosa. They take the same favourable treatment path as in the case of Ence, including the extension of environmental authorisation until December 2017. You too, and Mr. Rueda and Mr. Conde, had secret meetings with the company to cook your stay beyond 2018. And I love you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u245	Thank you, Mr Bará, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u246	...to ask in that sense: how will that decision be carried out?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u247	Thank you. You understand the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u248	Did they change the law?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u249	Thank you. That's it, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u250	Did they approve a business project?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u251	Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u252	What have you agreed on?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u253	Thank you. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u254	Thank you very much, President. It is at least striking that in the twenty-first century here, in this Parliament, we are still explaining why we have to comply with the current legislation, both in the previous question and now and even when you were talking about actions that correspond to the favourable treatment. [[Murmurs.]] Look, here from the Government of Galicia as much as the councillor who preceded me as this adviser who is speaking to you have absolutely no favour, and what he does — because Galician Union is not an NGO — is to comply with the vigorous legislation, something which, of course, affects all Spanish citizens and, of course, all Greeks. And, of course, when a president — in this case the President of the Galician Union, who was a candidate for the presidency of the Galician Union in 2009 — gives his word on the issue of the transfer of Ence, he is speaking with the prevailing legislation at that time. And indeed, you know very well — and if you don't know him, you should know — that legislation has changed, and substantially, in particular, the Back Law, in 2013. And, of course, once there's a law, the Socialist Government will do it, the Bipartite will do it, the People's Party's Government, any of us are forced to fulfill it. That's what we do, and more so if, like you, you're talking about two laws that, in particular, are made by the Government of Galicia, like the Land Management Guidelines and the Coastal Management Plan. But you, who is also an illustrious Member, should know that any law after a previous law prevails afterwards over the previous one, and even a state law prevails over an autonomous law. And, therefore, if that's the case, you know that the residence in Lourizán is now ruled by the Law of Back, and, if so, the Board doesn't have much to do, beyond simply meeting and respecting all that is its competence and, of course, compliance with the laws. I do not think it is necessary to remember that the extension of the grant of Ence you are talking about is an exclusive competence of the Ministry and that it is indeed an administrative procedure which is now closed, taking into account that this adjudication and that this extension has given them — as I say — the Ministry of the Environment. Enlargement of the concession results in the objectives of this Coastal Management Plan being postponed to the new deadline set by the concession. And once the state's decision to extend the concession has been made, from the Galician Council, to talk to the company — because for us companies are not gods, it seems that for some political training if they are, but not for us, so that they actually have to stay here, in our community, we can somehow demand this company to buy with Galicia and return to Galicia all that it owes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u255	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u256	...by achieving an environmental pact of 200 million euros for our community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u257	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u258	Counselor, I don't know if you've seen the Virgin. I don't know if the Virgin showed up. [[Laughter]] No, I'm saying that because you and your governments themselves give the Virgin Mary medals, so I don't know if she showed up to you. I'm going to give you an idea -- to see if Mr. Moreira also takes note, because now that the People's Party has launched this original idea of empowering religious tourism and marine occurrences, I believe that the land of Elnosa and the land of Ence would be a proper land to make there a Marian basilica and would give a great explanation for all those thousands of buses that the People's Party of Pontevedra say they will arrive to visit the city. [[Applause]] I think we would have a much more productive use and that it could create more jobs than a polluting industry like the one we have there. I'll give you the idea, I don't know if it's okay with you. In any case, I think it would be an opportunity... There's no time for jokes. What you've just done, what you've done these years, is something very serious, which is to make laws tailored to benefit private interests against the public interest and to benefit, in addition, the contaminating companies, companies convicted of eco-crime. [[Applause]] We've known the past. I want to ask you too — because you've had meetings with Elnosa's owner company over the past few months — and I want you to tell us how they intend to commit the same attack on Elnosa they did with Ence. As they will achieve, as they wish, that Elnosa's company will also remain sixty more years after the expiry of its concession. As this will be done, if the new law is to be applied, if the concession is to be extended, if the new integrated environmental authorisation is to be approved. How they're going to favour those private interests of Elnosa as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u259	Thank you, Mr Bará. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u260	Thank you very much, President. Oh, Mr. Bará! The truth is that the Virgin appears to me every day every time I come to Parliament, because she gives me enough patience to listen to what I am hearing. Every day! [[Applause]] So maybe we should ride the basilica here. But returning to the subject, which is really important, beyond our religious beliefs — I respect, by the way, what you have, if you have them — what the Council of Galicia does, of course, is to comply with legality, as I said in the previous intervention. What we've done has always been to comply with that legality. By the way, I remind him that his political formation, which was part of a bipartisan, also served him. I don't know why you completely and absolutely forgot that in 2008 it was you, your political formation -- you didn't, that you weren't in the government -- that gave you the environmental authorization integrated into the Lourizán factory. And now do it by following environmental controls in some way that are inflexible. You were also talking about your intervention, and you're also making remarks with a roundabout which I am curiously interested in, because you say that the company is incuring repeatedly and that it has repeated irregularities. Man, I suppose you'll have the ability to prove it. Of course, since the Galician Union, with all the inspections we are doing to it from the perspective of environmental competences, which in this case have to do with the discharges authorized in its environmental authorisation and, of course, with respect to emissions from the environment perspective, in none of the indicators that are being evaluated — that are being done semi-annually, and on a monthly basis, some of them — is in no case violating the company's effective environmental legislation. Of course, if it were otherwise, we'd be the first to report it and we'd sanction it too, but it's not. The company is completely meeting all environmental parameters. And as you said very well, before the end of 2018 you will have to undergo a new assessment of those environmental conditions, where, of course, all the green conditions and even emissions will be reassessed and all the periodic emission controls will also be guaranteed, which — as I say and repeat — are lower than today than those set out in your environmental authorisation. And I say again, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bará, there is an environmental pact today — which is unique and exclusively fruit of the pressure of the Galician Union to the company — which corresponds to 200 million euros to our autonomous community, especially Pontevedra and its community, for various environmental, industrial and, of course, social actions. Today, it is even now a commission close to finishing an assessment of three million euros that the company — thanks to that pressure and thanks to that environmental pact — will distribute between entities and associations of all kinds, of a social and cultural nature.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u261	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u262	I hope I don't find any hypocrisy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u263	Thank you. Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the opinion of the Government of Greece on the adequacy of the deadline and the information provided to the centres for the realization and preparation in the school year 2016-2017 of the evidence of the revalids in primary education provided for in the LOMCE
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u264	Question by Mrs Luca Chao, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u265	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We're talking about LOMCE again today. It couldn't be any other way, because the two days we've been in this plenary are celebrating in Galicia the revals, those evidences that they were no longer going to carry out and that were changing their names. Now I know they're not revalid, they're revalid, they're super-attached, they're evaluations. Well, you can change their name. Terminology aside, let me be the illustrious one today, Counselor, with the popular wisdom that you like so much. Even though the monkey looks silky, you know. It's true these revalids aren't what you wanted. It's true, they're not the ones you wanted. They were forced to lower their contents. But you didn't want assessments; no, that's a lie. You wanted to be revalid, you wanted to be rakings and you wanted to differentiate the student. They wanted to tell the children and children in Galicia that the least skilled were better off the education system. If today and yesterday the tests being carried out in Galicia aren't those, it wasn't because you changed your mind, it was because people, the whole educational community, went out to the streets again and again to tell them that their model of revalids wasn't worth it. It was because the families boycotted their evidence over and over again, as it just happened these days. If something has succeeded in its painful educational law, it was to put the whole educational community in its unanimous rejection — a great success, no doubt — by centralizer. We all remember the words of the ex-Minister who are resting in Paris. As a homogenizer, trying to impose a single curriculum, I blind to the differences between people, as they do in their tests, which make no difference to the student with special educational needs, to which you are obliged to do the same tests. By segregator and elitist, because they intended to limit the options of studies superior to all persons who were not able to go beyond that true career of obstacles in which they intend to convert the teaching of children and children in Galicia. He's a privatizer. Business, always business, for you and your friends at the expense of all citizenship. In this way, and from the zero minute, LOMCE, far from bringing certainty to the education system, has sown chaos, anxiety and uncertainty between teachers and teachers, between students and students and families. The chaos and lack of information that the centres suffered from the beginning of the law, as a result of the lack of planning by this council and the constant improvisation of the People's Party's governments in regard to public education. Evidence remains, with the resolutions on instructions for the development of final evaluations, just a couple of weeks ago, the last most obvious example. So you gave instructions just two weeks before the tests took place -- two weeks before. And they only said that, that they had recorded the dates, but there was no more information. Great timing control, Counselor! As an old teacher, you know how the students who leave everything for the last day end up. What did you do all the rest of the year, besides waiting for orders from your Madrid partners? We don't know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u267	That's why we ask you to be honest and tell us if you consider the information that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u268	Your time is up. Thank you. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u269	Thank you very much. Well, Mrs Chao, in the previous plenary you said it was very important to evaluate public policies. Today you don't seem to mind evaluating public policies anymore. I think the evaluation that you describe and despise in this speech really does little favor the education system. I'll tell you one thing, I appreciate your sincerity. And I'm also going to tell him that, when the alms is too much, even the saint believes in it. And you must start to distrust yourself because they only lie. And look, you're here, Your Honor, you've taken a sort of amendment to the whole, you've taken a serial speech, like the electric elevators of a car, and I think you're really missing the truth all the time. [[Applause]] You're talking here that there's no technical rigour. Hey, these tests are the teachers and the teachers. You're talking about this being used to repeat a course, which is useful for segregating... you say this is useful for rankings. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Have you come any rankings, Mrs. Chao? You say -- which is very serious -- that you don't care about the diversity of the student. [[Interruptions.]] He literally said it. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm going to show you a document. These are the evaluation tests for third-party students in Braille, for children with visual disabilities. No, you don't know, content is the same, because if we talk about an inclusive education, a child with visual disabilities has the same rights and duties as a student with adaptation. When you talk, you should know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u270	Mrs. Chao, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u271	Look, here's a document that shows that there's a curriculum adaptation to all those children with special educational needs. And you happily come here with your serial speech launching what we already know. [[Applause]] And of course, you say that we must be honest. Listen! An important question to be honest is not to lie to citizens. Very important. And if you tell me what you're saying here: rankings, segregations, stigmatize students, diversity, and evidence, after two years, leave it where it leaves it, I really think they had to be a little more prudent, absolutely prudent, on this matter. Because above, and from a political point of view...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u272	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u273	...everything here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u274	Thank you. Your time is up, Counselor. Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u275	Really, Counselor, every day that you spend, I'm more surprised. It's not that we're missing any more about it, it's that it doesn't bother to try to conceal and try to answer what you're asked. Don't hide! He didn't try to answer absolutely anything. The question was, do you consider enough information? Did you say anything about this? No, absolutely nothing. It's just that he has nothing to say. You know what? After your intervention, what I don't understand is if you like these revals or like the previews. This is important. If he liked the previews, he'll be very unhappy with the revals as they were now. And if you like those of us right now, you should have told your minister that you didn't agree with the previous revals, which you didn't. You assumed and accepted everything they told him. By reviewing this document that is generously titled Guide on Primary Education Evaluations, a pamphlet that anyone can see; that is, ten pages, nine pages -- one that you already put together from Galicia because they have no more to count -- that they sent to the educational centers to tell them how the tests are done, you're trying to say, no, quiet, this isn't revamped, it's evaluations. Turns out the revals are bad, the revals are ugly, the rakings are ugly, but it was you who wanted them! They now devote their efforts to saying, "No, no, no, those revalids we're not going to do anything at all." Just like when they had to say they didn't want anything from those revalids, it was when they were on the table, not when they didn't have another remedy to change them because their law was doomed to failure. Why are we against these revals? I wish you could tell us why you're in favor, because we didn't make it clear. The scientific community has proven above all that the revalids do not completely improve school results in any way, quite the opposite. The studies have shown a lot of negative side effects, among which we can first highlight the delegitimization of the teaching function. Secondly, the degradation of the contents, whenever the course applies solely to the completion of the tests, with which the teachers explain only what will enter the exams. Thirdly, the economic cost. I wish we could report how much these stupid revals cost us. Fourthly, what they're doing is business for large private companies that finance the tests; not in the case of Galicia, but in all the tests that are done in this style.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u276	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Your time is up. Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u277	The truth is, it makes it very difficult for me to maintain wisdom in the answer. [[Applause]] Business, private business!, Your Honor, multinationals. Do you know who fixes the exams? Do you know how the exams are done? Well, look. [[Mrs. Chao speaks words that are not perceived.]] Well, they make a few barrels like these, which the Administration does, and they divide us into classes. And I correct the teachers. There's no multinationals. I think his serious speech is a bit far away from him. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you're proposing a whole amendment that can't stand. In all countries of the world, assessments are made without any problems. In some autonomous communities there are evaluations, with governments very close to you, without any problems. Here you have been told in this Parliament that the children were crying. The next day the media said: This is very easy. It's in the media. Here you've come to say any number of questions. I really understand that I have put forward a political speech and that they try to stand against a political approach, but they have to be rigorous in their statements. And of course, you're still talking about diversity, about academic subjects, about evaluation. There's no question here that the student has to prepare an ex-profession. They don't question content, they're competences; something very different. It's not what you know, it's what you can do with what you know, which is a very different thing. And of course, here's the big lie — which I'm not saying is, of course, called this revalid. That's a big lie already because it's not a revalide. From then on, look, I understand you're thinking what you understand is politically positive for you, not for the education system. Why don't you ever ask yourself why diagnostic evaluations are necessary? They serve simply and clearly to have information about the education system, complementary to ordinary evaluations, and to be able to implement corrective measures to improve the system in quality and equity. And we made it. I'll talk to you about things you don't like to talk about. I'm going to talk to you about a series of issues because you draw an absolutely black picture in education. Well, look, in recent years we've been able to improve results; the Pisa reports certify them. In recent years we have been able to reduce school failure? Yes, we were able in very high percentages. Were we able to modernize or teach? Yes, more technology, new teaching methodologies, more languages. Were we able to improve the system? In the last national ESO awards, of fifteen, five are Germans. Five are Germans! We have the best ratio of teachers/students in the state; one of the best inter-state rates; we have the most inclusive education system in Spain, more than 90% of students with special educational needs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u278	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. Thank you. Counselor has finished his time. Thank you. [[Mrs. Chao Pérez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Chao, what do you want the word for? I just can't hear her. Please give a voice to the chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u279	In accordance with Article 76.1, when there are judgments of value and inaccuracies about the person or conduct of a Member, he would have the right to speak. This gentleman...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u280	Excuse me a moment. You'll excuse me. Could it be the moment I was talking on the phone and I didn't listen to her?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u281	No, it's just that repeatedly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u282	Could have been. What exactly is the inaccuracy that was pronounced? What is it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u283	Repeatedly saying he was lying and missing the truth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u284	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u285	To say repeatedly that he lied and was lacking in the truth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u286	Well, that's part of it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u287	No, no. And also put things I didn't say in my mouth. Mania that, by the way, the counselor has frequently. He says things I didn't say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u288	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. [[Murmurs.]] I didn't hear that, I'm sorry. Excuse me. That's it, it's over. I'm sorry I wasn't paying attention at the time. In any case, I suppose the counselor won't have any drawbacks either. I don't think he's in the Councillor's heart to miss you because I know him. It's clear from my position. Question by D. Luis Villares Naveira and Da Paula Vázquez Verao, from G.P. of En Marea, on the deadline for the deployment and transfer of the Primary Care of the Miraculous Health Centre to the facilities of the former General Hospital in the residential district of Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u289	Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u290	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. First of all, greet the neighbors and neighbors of the neighborhood of the Residence, Lugo, who accompany us, today concerned about the future of their neighborhood, the neighborhood of the Residence. And it is that, Counsellor, in 2011 ended the transfer of the activity of the General Hospital of Lugo to the HULA, thus remaining the neighborhood of the empty residence in relation to which was its main area of interrelationship. Then the time for promises has come. The Junta promised in 2011 for the neighborhood where the General is located, the installation of a health centre, which would unfold the centre of the Miracle, which currently serves 29,000 people and which is saturated, as you know, since he went to visit in December and knows what his state is and how he is unable to adequately meet the health needs of that neighborhood of Lugo. Secondly, a CAP, an ongoing point of attention. And thirdly, transfer the public health reference laboratory to the old General Hospital. After the promises, of course, the silence passed the elections. The months have passed, the years have passed, without any kind of budgetary commitment to make use of, either health care or social security, to the facilities of an old hospital that with minimal investment could be adapted. It was when the time came for the neighborhood protests, the time for the mobilizations. It rained, it got cold or it made sun, month after month, week after week, they met in front of the old General Hospital to claim health and social welfare use for the neighborhood. Over time, the facilities began to deteriorate. The neighborhood accused a fall in commercial activity. Before there was life around the Residence: there were floristries, there were cafes, there were orthopedics, there were pharmacies... all that activity was fading, up to the point of closing, and the facilities were deteriorating. Then the time of the occurrences came, and every three months one came out of the bench joke or popular proposals. First of all, a technological research centre. Then the location of a police station. But all this gives the sun, without any support, no budget or technical projects. By assigning a building like this, of the old general, socio-sanitary uses would dynamize the economy of the residential district and could easily be set up, because the ground is already ready for that, and the very configuration of the neighborhood around the old residence is prepared for that, a real neighborhood of well-being, serving the whole city of Lugo, not only the neighborhood of Residence. The transfer to the facilities of the former General Hospital of the Miragross Health Centre, in its deployment, of those 29,000 people who are now serving, would prevent the serious collapses of this center at this moment. And the opening of a CAP would also take off the PAC centre of Fingoi and the HULA emergencies, being in addition to an excellent location of the city, by the good entry and exit, by its accessibility, as previously had the General Hospital. In addition, the existence of the infrastructure of the old hospital would make it possible to make an important savings in the creation of new health services by taking advantage of facilities and supplies that are in good condition. The recovery of the former General for Sociosanitary Uses would help to weave community, allowing reconciliation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u291	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u292	...of personal and work life, health, education. The question is clear, the question is clear: when will Junta fulfill its promises, which were three: unfold the primary care of the Miracle Center, open a CAP and install the health reference center? When? Thank you? Prayers?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u293	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u294	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, ladies and gentlemen, neighbors of the neighborhood of the Residence of Lugo, the truth is that Mr. Villares is right, I was there. The first health centers I visited were two from Lugo, because I think in Lugo a great transformation was made by the Galician board in health matters. I also had the opportunity to be with the neighbors, to listen to them, and we even formed a working group with concelers from the Town Hall to be able to work. But I have to say, first of all, that I believe that the health level in Lugo has become a complete transformation. I think in the future they can count on the health experience of what happened in Lugo, trying to start a work of a large hospital at the time of President Fraga and finish it with President Feijóo, who set it up, creating not only new facilities, which allowed new services. Last year we opened radiotherapy and nuclear medicine services, which are giving a magnificent result, making many neighbors of Lugo don't have to go to the city of Coruña to be treated. It also says that the same Hemodynamic Service has magnificent results, with a mortality rate like the rest of Galicia, very low, lower than the Spanish average. And I think the transformation has been broken. Well, it's true not only for the facilities, but also because there's a great team of professionals in the city of Lugo. Unfortunately, we were on the first anniversary of the death of one of them, which was Dr. Veiga, which is an institution at the national level in Jericho. But like Dr. Veiga, many others have made the transformation of Lugo total and absolute. And now, seeing these health centers that, as I say, have been visiting, the Sacred Heart I think it was the first health center I visited at community level, and also what is in the Miracle, I realized, of course, what was needed. We also ask for help, as we do in the municipalities of Galicia, to the municipalities to try to see if there was in a nearby situation a land to be able to build a health center. So far it has not been possible, but it is true that within the ideas of that working group there has been the possibility of being able to unfold without leaving the neighbourhood of the Miracle without a health center, because there is an old population who also needs to have that situation close to their homes. You've seen the possibility of using the facilities of a magnificent space in the neighborhood of the Residence that will give value not only to health, but also to the living standard of the neighborhood will maintain an important activity. We're clearly working on that, and in the coming days we're going to present a complete project, which is what we're doing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u295	Thank you. You've got another shift, Counselor. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u296	It's good that in the next few days they're going to present a project, because what's so far, from 2011 to 2017 is going to be six years and we haven't carried anything concrete. So, we're grateful that you come to make the announcement that you're making an ad of a concretion, because until now neither with the working group nor with the neighborhood that's up there you said nothing about what they were going to do. [[Applause]] It seemed for two-thirds of your intervention that you were completely satisfied with how the Miracle Health Center was. It seems to have visited a different center than the Miracle, because the facilities at the centre are clearly obsolete; not all facilities are adapted to people so they can have good access; the place where blood tests are done collapsing every morning; there is no good place to do the espormetries; there is no good maintenance and cleaning; there is no covering for the remaining squares of doctors and doctors, with which there is an oversaturation of the service. We're not talking about closing the centre of the Miracle, the centre of the Miracle must be reformed and improved. Come here and tell us what you're asking the county where there's some land to build another center. In the neighborhood of the Residence! They're there and they're yours. What are you waiting for to be able to give you ahead of a project for the construction of a socio-sanitary centre for the unfoldment of the attention of the Miracle? It's not about people being taken care of anymore. It's about getting out to meet this whole neighborhood and meeting the whole city. It's about making a CAP to decongest Fingoi's and HULA's emergencies. It's about doing the reference laboratory as well. And it's about, because the facilities are wide enough, to make socio-sanitary facilities that allow the neighborhood to be transformed into the welfare neighborhood, in the neighborhood where you can reconcile activities like daycare centers, as short-stay centers, as day centers. That is, a place where people can live intergenerationally, and besides where they can maintain health use, which would not only result in an improvement in the quality of life of the entire citizenry, but in particular in the neighborhood, and in the economic recovery of a neighborhood that was badly affected by the closure of the residence in 2011.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u297	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Close shift, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u298	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Villares, you're clearly an opportunist. You know we're working... No, no, no, Mr. Villares... Don't confuse me... look, you're an opportunist. [[Laughter]] You know we're working, the projects aren't done... having a coffee or a cane, but they're doing technical work, preparing statistics and knowing and planning very well what you want to do. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why it's made a change; that's why Lugo's hospital, the HULA, which is one of Spain's best hospitals, took what it took because it has to be planned, know exactly what we want to do. [[Murmurs.]] And we've studied him. [[Murmurs.]] You heard what we're doing and said, I'm going to say I'm what I did the change. [[Murmurs.]] And the new neighborhood of the Residence, with a center as there will be in very little time from the Galician Union, because the Galician Union if it fulfills its promises, it does! And of course, the Galician Union in Lugo has met and will continue to do so. [[Murmurs.]] Others use this in good time. But I didn't listen to Mr. Villares to facilitate land for other health centers like the Sacred Heart, for example, because he certainly didn't have to be there or he wasn't there. [[Murmurs.]] I'm not from Lugo and I've been many more times than you've ever been at Lugo's sanitary facilities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And so we're going to go ahead with the project, and you're not going to use a parliamentary question to say that you plan Lugo's health care because it's not like that. They plan Lugo's professionals, advisors' technicians and Lugo's citizens, but not you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u299	Mr. Villares!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u300	You want to use this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u301	Mr. Villares, silence! [[Murmurs.]] You can't interrupt who's using the word, except you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u302	I'm telling you, we've been here ever since...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u303	Quiet, Mr. Vega, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u304	...I made that visit because I like to know the land and I've been with the neighbors to tell me their reality. And clearly these two centers are insufficient, and that's why we're working from that point on improving that situation. And soon, as I say, there will be a clear and round representation. [[Murmurs.]] And in the next few months, before the end of this year, we're going to have the fully-equipped execution project to bid for that work. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you'll see it, but it won't be you who started this project, it won't be you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u305	Thank you, Counselor. [[Murmurs.]] Ms. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to respond to the demands of patients with spinal muscle atrophy, in particular with regard to the administration of the new drug called Nusinersen/Spinraza
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u306	Mrs. Monserrat Prado's question from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u307	Good afternoon, Counselor. And good afternoon to the two representatives of the Galicia AME Association who accompany us from the rostrum. Spinal muscle atrophy (AME) is a neuromuscular disease of a genetic and degenerative character, affecting children and children recently born to adolescents and adults; it produces progressive muscle weakness due to the affect of the spinal cord's motor neurons, which causes the nerve impulse not to transmit properly to the muscles and causes the atrophy of the muscles. There are four types of AME, being type 1 the most serious, and even mortal, and type 4 the weakest. The symptoms that people suffer from this disease range from muscle weakness, chronic tiredness, lack of reflexes, loss of muscle mass, tremors, respiratory infections, scoliosis, feeding problems, inability to sit down and move. This leads these people to disability, to the use of wheelchairs, respirators, and, in the most serious cases, to death — as I have already said —. So far, AME had neither treatment nor cure, focusing on controlling symptoms and avoiding complications and trying to maintain and improve the quality of life of patients with rehabilitation and occupational therapies. However, despite the fact that research on rare diseases is always limited and always scarce, progress has just been made in research and results. And on December 23, 2016, the U.S. regulatory authority, the FDA, granted the Biogen laboratory the register for the marketing of the first and at present the only treatment for the disease. This treatment is called Nusinersen, known as Spinraza. The European Medicines Agency, on 21 April, recommended its approval, and according to the information available to us all indicates that the final approval will be made on 6 June. This recent recommendation is very hopeful for those affected and affected. And according to information that transfers Galicia AME to Galicia, there are eleven cases diagnosed: five of type 2, five of type 3 and one of type 4; in ages ranging from 18 months to 60 years. This approval, Counsellor, brings hope to the sick and sick people of AME, means to be able to access a coveted possibility of treatments that so far have not existed and that will bring considerable improvements in their health, in their quality of life. Studies conducted so far indicate that people treated with the medicinal product have achieved and sustained clinically significant improvements in motor function compared to others who have not received them. Some patients have achieved unthinkable milestones so far: the ability to sit down without help, stand up, walk or turn around. And considering these results and that AME is a degenerative disease that produces progressive disability, it is necessary to speed up all the precise situations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u308	Ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u309	...so that the treatment can be administered as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u310	Ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u311	That's why, Counselor, what we want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u312	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u313	...to-day ask is, what actions will the Government perform to respond to the demands of AME sick people?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u314	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u315	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u316	Counsellor's response. Give a voice to the health counsellor's chair. [[Pause.]] You're not? [[Pause.]] See if the House services can give voice to the scanner. That's not working. [[Pause.]] Next door. If there's no more remedy! [[Pause.]] He's not going now. Now it's not that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u317	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member and members of the Galaga Association of Spinal Muscle Atrophy. The truth is that rare diseases are the next challenge we have in health care. We know that there are over 7,000 cases of diseases known as rare -- or I think it's best to talk about "frequently frequent" -- and also orphaned treatments, drugs that are unallocated within what is a treatment. And I say it's one of the big challenges because we really have to try to get to a diagnosis as early as possible and, as I say, also to a specific treatment that leads to a personalized medicine. He's working a lot. We must remember that at European Union level there are already various committees that are trying to improve. Today, in addition, the idea is that more than the diseases known as common — those always known — are groups of rare diseases to which, in the end, we put a certain name to them, but really the basis is uncommon diseases that affect population groups. We are, as I say, working in all health administrations, and of course Galicia is not out of this environment. And it must be remembered that there have been very few treatments since very little time for rare diseases; in fact, the first treatment was in 1983. On May 18, I received the association, the president and another member of the Galicia AME Association, to listen to the concerns and concerns we also shared — as I said before. And they're very concerned about the drug issue approved by the U.S. FDA at the end of last year. And it was studied by the laboratory -- a laboratory also by a multinational -- authorization to the European Medicines Agency. And he also requested an agreement to channel the health centers of Sant Joan de Dios and Vall d'Hebron, in Barcelona, for all those affected, as well as the initial intervention at these centers. We have made it clear that the derivation — and that is why I also want to comment on it here — to other centres in the National Health System has an established and standardized procedure common to the whole system, so the signing of an agreement is not appropriate. We're already, in fact, deriving, and minus one patient is all derived there, although it's not a CSUR center, which is called special centers of derivation, at the national level, of specific pathologies. Another issue that concerns them is the administration of treatment, which is not yet authorized; a question that will have to be evaluated with specialists and say which is the best option, always keeping in mind that improves the quality of care and, above all, very especially the safety of the patient. We must not forget that all medicines have side effects; in some cases, severe. In the case of this medicine there are described risks of bleeding and bleeding, kidney damage, including potentially fatal acute inflammation, and, more often, respiratory infections, pulmonary atelectasis, back pain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u318	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u319	...head...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u320	Thank you. You have another shift, Counselor, then.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u321	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u322	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u323	I am blessed that I had received representatives of the association, Counselor, two days after it had been included in the agenda this question. And I am truly blessed that they never make mistakes again in the past. BNG today brings you to this Parliament because we want to hear your commitment, the steps that will take, within what time frame, to meet the needs of the sick people of AME. Because the hope that this medicine is generating in the affected people, in their families, in their surroundings, cannot become frustrated by the delay, by bureaucracy. And we can't go back to the situation that there's a drug that improves people's health doesn't apply to those patients. And, for whatever reason, we can't live it again, because what these patients don't have is time, and we can't afford it, nor do we allow this to be so. And we don't want him to be late for any of the people who suffer from this disease, for any of the eleven diagnosed in Galicia: for Xoel, for Diego, for Edgar, for Diego, for Hector, for Clara, for Merche, for Caesar, for Oscar, or for Jose Manuel. We don't want to regret that for none of these people treatment doesn't come in time. BNG and I are going to be looking forward to meeting the commitments made with the association, to make this happen with all speed. Because you know that since the European Medicines Agency approves the drug until it reaches the patients it can spend an average of six to nine months, and even two years. So that's the time these patients don't have, the time they don't have, and -- I insist -- what we can't afford. And before my intervention is over, I want to bless Galicia AME, especially her president Merche, because since 2005 she has been diagnosed as AME, despite the rapid evolution that disease is having in her, she has been able to organize, promote and collect resources for the research of AME, learn and teach, accompany and console patients and family members, and, above all, do an important task of awareness-raising and awareness-raising that makes us here today, practically in the first Parliament of the Spanish State, dealing with this issue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u324	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u325	...and that I hope it has the consequences it deserves...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u326	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u327	...the sick of this disease.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u328	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u329	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u330	Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u331	Of course, I also value the whole association and the work you're doing, that's indisputable. But, Mrs. Prado, what you don't do to me is the schedule. I receive a lot of patients and associations from patients and professionals — whatever they need — because I think they know the reality perfectly. But we also have a responsibility, and I wouldn't like the indication of a medicine to be made by a parliamentarian, I'd like a specialist to do it. That's why I think there must be some responsibility for decisions. [[Applause]] And you yourself in the first intervention said that there really is no type 1 in the Greek patients — you know, I don't say so — and the indication that you have this drug in principle is for type 1. In any case, what we're talking about — and we're clear and convinced — is that the research is going to make sure drugs like this are going to be able to act on the rest of the patients of this disease. And that is why I want to tell you that this specific drug, which will, in principle, act on type 1, on 21 April 2017, has obtained the positive ruling by the Committee on Medicinal Products for the Use of EMA — from the European Agency — by the accelerated procedure. But it has to be made clear that this medicine is not yet authorised, that this dictation is a prior procedure for authorisation. We will, of course, be at the first place as much as necessary, as soon as it is diagnosed by a specialist of ours; even sometimes neither ours, because they are receiving follow-up in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. And logically we're going to act, we're there; that's how we do it, and we talk to the members of the association directive. And, of course, Galicia won't stay behind, but it's going to ensure patient safety, because we have to see the side effects, the side effects, and of course the positive effects. I'm sure in a very short time, if we don't have the rest of the guys, we'll have them. And we also proposed something very important that I think it is, that is the realization of an IAP, an integrated care process. We're going to do the full and absolute follow-up so that as long as a person with symptoms appears he's diagnosed quickly and acceleratedly and indicate the appropriate treatments, derivations, healing treatments if there are them and, if not, palliatives, to try to improve the conditions of all affected people. That's why we have a clear implication: we're going to continue to assume this result, and, as we said to the association the other day, we're going to be in touch with them, with the professionals and, logically, also with pharmaceutical companies that are investigating any kind of product. I think it's an important moment; we have to have hope and, of course, give encouragement and assurance that the Galician Health Service will always be supporting these patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u332	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and two other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the reasons for the delay in payment of their services to staff who have carried out the teaching work set out in the continuing training plan in the Italian countryside 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u333	You have the word Mrs. Paula Quinteiro Araújo from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u334	Good afternoon. On 2 March we asked the Committee on the Rural Environment about this very issue which we are bringing to this plenary today. In the answer given in this one, the Director General of Forest Management told us that the situation would be solved briefly, that it would not be a matter of years or months. Today, two and a half months after the debate on this committee, the people who took the courses within the continuing training plan in the German farm remain unpaid, but they still have no contact with this board. These own or foreign employees have not been charged for their services since the start of the program, and it must be borne in mind that the deadline for submission of proposals for the first half of 2016 ended on January 31st. It's true that later the deadline was extended until February 29, but the course course began the following month, so we're talking about courses that started in March 2016 and now, in May, a year later, they're still waiting for the board to settle and if they get paid for what they did. For us this is a totally unacceptable delay, as we have already said in committee. We understand that you can only respond to a lack of planning by this board. And we also bring it to this plenary today because the answer they gave us in the commission was totally insufficient, it was not clear, and all they did was try to justify this delay with a sort of excuse. And, above all, we bring it in because the commitments that were said were going to be put in place today are still unfulfilled. And people who've been waiting for a year to charge don't use anything to tell us about the increase in applications, the increase in courses, what we'd be doing, what we've asked for in the commission and asked you today, is a date, a firm commitment to when the money they owe is going to be paid. We are in the supposed legislating of the rural environment — the words of President Feijóo himself — because, well, we demonstrate it with facts and explain to what is due the delay in payment to the teaching staff, to the people who are giving these courses that are so essential to our rural life — of agrarian business attitude, of users of plant protection products, of animal welfare, etc. — and also to those who are waiting to speed up at once all this process. And we want them to explain to us clearly what measures they will also take so that this will not repeat any more years; but, above all, we want them to inform us of when all late payments will be made. We want a date and a firm commitment, not that everything remains in words. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u335	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u336	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that, indeed, this is a problem, and it is a problem for which I give a date, and a fixed date today, and that it will be dissolved before fifteen days ago. This is clearly and in addition to my presence here. But first of all, we must also understand the reasons for the delay. I have to thank you for the effort you made last year by the officials of the Rural Council to be able to provide the number of courses that were needed following a decree; a decree which, in its article 17, established the need for both farmers and farmers and sellers, distributors and processors and traders of this product to have the seat of plant protection products manipulator in order to be able to implement the said products. I think you, like me, have a lot of memory and therefore there was a worry. That worry is that our farmers and livestock were unable to own their product if they didn't have these courses. We made an effort by the council, but we made an ingenious effort by the officials of this council, who were able to reach the citizenship of the rural Greek 552 courses, when the average annual was 203 courses. They were courses that were done both in the municipalities, in different associations centers, and even in something that you were laughing at, which was when we announced a mobile unit so that people didn't have to travel to different places. In the end, the result was what we wanted, and that result we wanted was that nobody stopped applying phytosanitary because they didn't have this course. Well, it's true that you can say, why didn't people take the courses before? Because, like rural people, every one of us, until we see that something actually comes into effect, we don't worry. And it's not because there were no courses offered, which were often deserts, because there were no staff to be able to come. In addition, as you said about the course of plant protection manipulator, other courses have been carried out. There were many of them of incorporation, of animal welfare; above all, of incorporation, which, despite the fact that 50% of the young people who join the Italian countryside don't need to take the courses because they already have their training and a qualification that you don't need to carry out, it's also true that you've got a record of Thursday's incorporations, and we didn't want any of these young people to be unable to join the courses. So... date: before fifteen days, and on the other hand, the difference, i.e., until now, the average carnife that distributed the plant protection counsellor's office was 7,300...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u337	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u338	...—sorry, just one data— 7,359 meats per year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u339	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u340	... compared to the 66,000 carnées we gave in 2016.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u341	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u342	Well, I regret that most of the intervention had used her to apologize, although I celebrate and am glad that she gave a specific date, to which they denied in the commission. I'm glad that fifteen days is a reasonable date; it had to be done much earlier. But I notice a total lack of self-criticism and I think that... more courses have been made. Well, but the government had to have it planned, we can't delay payments for more than a year; we're not talking about a matter of weeks or months, we're talking about the courses being held in March 2016, and we're in May 2017. I mean, what kind of planning does this board have? Do you really think it's justifiable that the board has more than a year's delay in payments? I don't think it's justifiable. I understand that now they give a date, that they're going to put a solution to it; so I hope it will be fulfilled. But I think I should make a self-criticism, because — although it is true that more courses have been made — the board had to put in place the means to respond to these courses. If not, how could they get started? If they start up, we have to have the same mechanisms to pay people for the work they do, because if it's not a joke, and we understand that people don't repeat again. So, I'll say, fifteen days, I hope so. But above all, too, what measures will be planned so that this will never happen again?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u344	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that there has been an unusual workload for officials in 2016. It's also true that it's unusual to leave a decree that forces you to take the course to buy phytosanitary; this doesn't always happen. It is also true that he had been planning for three years, but — as I said — many of the courses were deserts because the population decided not to attend, often because it is believed that there will always be a moratorium, a moratorium that did not exist. So here I can find out my fault, but all I have to say is that who does the administrative procedures are the officials, who are a lot of administrative procedures, who are talking about more than five hundred courses, 552 courses, with the procedure that it means!, scattered throughout Galicia, and also with a planning, which was quarterly and half-year planning, with more than 13100 hours of training and more than 66,206 carnes issued. And besides, I want to remind you of all the problems in other communities, where you know how the courses were done and in which you gave all those courses. And Galicia didn't want to fall into what other communities fell; above all, for the sake of our owners and for the sake of our farmers. That's why I'm just grateful for the effort of those officials who gave that huge amount of hours. Thank you also for being them in their vast majority who gave the courses out of their working hours. Thank you for moving to every corner of Galicia. But simply there was an insurmountable burden of work, which did not happen every year and which was not because of the counseling and by the counseling officers there was no structure to carry them out; it was simply because there was a prevailing need, a real decree in force and farmers, wine growers and each of the owners needed to have their products; neither could the sellers sell them nor the farmers buy them. So when we distribute 66,000 dollars, that means it was 66,000 farmers and farmers who attended those courses. And to do things well, the procedures are long, and this is the only clear and transparent answer I can give you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u345	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José González Vázquez and six other Members of the G.P. Most people in Galicia, on the evaluation of the Rural Environment Council on the effects of the frosts of last week of April 2017 on the wine sector in Galicia, as well as the measures being taken to alleviate the damage caused to wine growers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u346	Question by Mr. Blanco Paradelo, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u347	Thank you very much, President. Madam Counsellor, as we all know, wine is a very important sector for Galicia, both for its economy and for its jobs it generates, both fixed and temporary, and even for family economies, which are important complementary incomes. A sector that has great relevance in the regions where it extends and, essentially, where are the five designations of origin: Valdeorras, Ribeira Sacra, Monterrey, Ribeiro and Rías Baixas, and where they work about sixteen thousand wine growers and which has more than four hundred and fifty wineries distributed throughout the territory of Greece. It is true that, like other sectors, it has not been alien to the context and the difficulties of the economic crisis, but it has also resisted better, in view of the economic balance of recent years. And this was mainly possible for work, effort, dedication and affection put to it by producers, winemakers, winegrowers and regulators of the designations of origin, and it must also be said that they always counted on the accompaniment and assistance of the Council of Galicia through your guidance. In addition, in all these years, different lines of help are being put in place to improve the quality and production, including in this case, of the different varieties of grapes, to improve marketing, internationalization; and this makes, of course, that we have a product, a wine of the state's most attractive. We're talking about an area that, like others, also depends directly on meteorological phenomena. As we all know — and today we are debating it at this plenary session — in the last week of April several nights with frost caused a lot of damage in the Greek field, mainly in the vineyards of the four designations of origin from the interior of Ourense province. And, of course, we all said it from the beginning, you too, this will generate important economic prejudices for wine growers, but not only economic, not only material prejudices, but we also want to expose the emotional damage, which is very hard to see how the work of the whole harvest, of several months, of the whole year, if we lose in one hour or one night. We have to say and acknowledge that from the very first moment the Rural Council and your entire team, and you personally, have been by the side of the sector supporting the wine growers, holding different meetings with organizations, with representatives of different entities as well, and also taking the first support measures. Technicians were sent on the ground, trained in Evega, and various measures were announced.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u348	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u349	So we want to ask him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u350	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u351	...which is your valuation and which are those support lines.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u352	Thank you. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u353	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, as I said on the 27th of April, the clear sky, the presence of cold air and the absence of wind caused temperatures below zero degrees and, therefore, in Lugo and Ourense areas — especially in viticulture areas, but not only viticulture, also chestnut trees or also the garden, among others — the frosts have caused us to have, and we are going to have, important losses throughout this year. He said earlier, we did not hesitate to ask the officials when last year everyone needed a carnage to be able to use phytosanitary, and we did it in all areas but, above all, because we were asked by the wine growers and we did not hesitate to double our efforts, to ask the officials for it; they answered and, indeed, even now we are looking forward to solving the problem that has caused all that burden of work. If we did it last year because there was a directive and, therefore, it was a problem and we pulled it forward, I believe that the Rural Councillory, as it cannot be in any other way, like the Greek Government, will be next to the farmer and will be next to, above all, the winegrowers... who are suffering from the zero minute already lost. [[Applause]] And it's from the zero minute because it's not just about the harvest, that we're going to have to evaluate with the passing of the days, but we have to make a double effort, and that effort is either one's own or, if not, it's about hiring companies to get back to rest, among other things. So, what did the Rural Middle Council do? From the minute zero, transfer the counsellor's technicians to make the first evaluations — first evaluations, which, on the other hand, had also been made from Eve, the Galician Viticulture and Enology Station -- and in less than 24 hours, a technical document was prepared to act on the vineyards after the frosts. In addition, on the last day of May, in the installations of Eve, which also have several crops and were also affected, a day of open doors for the technicians themselves and for those winemakers who wanted it to be given a class — as they say live and live — and came about 100 wine growers and wine growers to Eve. Once this first evaluation is done, let's look for different lines. But different lines depending on regulations, which are the European regulations and which are also the regulations of the Ministry, regardless of whether we are within them we can be able to make them, even more attractive and better. But the frosts didn't cause damage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u354	Thank you. You've got another shift...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u355	...not just... yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u356	He's got another shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u357	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u358	Replica, Mr. Blanco Paradello.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u359	Thank you, President. Counsellor, we knew you had been working next to the sector for the first minute, those who didn't want to find out were the opposition groups that today, a few hours ago, here, they came to ask for your resignation, they came to accuse you of being overpowering, they came to tell you that their actions and their announcements meant a joke, a ridicule, which had the rural abandoned and, of course, they made the wishes confusing with reality. I think it became clear that the opposition was not of interest to him. You noticed that in the only question that came to you today in control... for you, they didn't want or didn't have any interest in asking you about the wine. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in addition, I'm going to tell you one thing: when we discussed the non-legislative proposal in the morning, the People's Group was willing to approve the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block as drafted and changed it completely, of course, because they were not interested in any kind of agreement. And what we're testing... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u360	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u361	...is that when they accuse her of confusion, those who want to confuse are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u362	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u363	...those who want to misinformed — in this case wine growers, the producers who are affected — are the ones, and what they are interested in, in this case, is to find solutions. They accused her that you didn't do anything, that you sold smoke, that you were just ads, but at the same time, there's no more deaf than you don't want to hear. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, we, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u364	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u365	...we told you that in the 7th Commission next Friday we'll take a non-legislative proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u366	Quiet, Mr. Rivas, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u367	...we'll carry a non-law proposal with concrete, detailed measures, and wait to see what the positioning is beyond mounting jealousy and trying to find an electoral revenue in this complicated situation that wine growers are living. Nothing else, and we encourage you to keep working on that line.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u368	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u369	Thank you very much, President. I believe that the only thing that interests me is not what the opposition says, but what the wine growers say. I think I'm in places before if there's a problem that there's a joy. [[Applause]] And that's what I did. [[Murmurs.]] But anyway, I remind you again what the positioning is and what we have on the table and, on the other hand, I just ask them that the speech — which they would do, or will do — be able to keep it in the future, which, generally, is not so. As if we are able to keep it in the future, say, on the one hand, tax discounts. Tax reductions that we have asked the Ministry of Agriculture — we have asked the Ministry of Agriculture — we have asked them last year for the sectors that were having problems, they have caught, they have done, they have done, and we have just asked for tax reductions for the sectors that also have problems in Galicia; we have asked for them last year for the Ministry of Agriculture — we have asked them last year for the sectors that had problems last year for the sectors that had problems in Galicia; we have asked them to call for tax reductions, and this year we have just asked for tax reductions for the sectors that in Galicia have problems; we have asked them to move in the mode of borrowed loan loan — of fined loan money — of course I have to say that all of all this that we have placed on the table is what the sector, the sector itself, the sector itself itself, which, if you were to stay longer with it, would know which are the demands they have to have — with which, with which, with this year, this year this year we have been asking for the year, we have asked for tax reductions, we have asked for the year last year, and last year, and last year, and last year, and last year, we have asked for the last year, we have asked for the year for the sectors that we have asked for the sectors that we have made for the sectors that we have made for the sectors that we have made for the sectors that we have made for the sectors that we have made for the sectors that we have made for the sectors that we have made for which we have made for the sectors that we have made for the sectors that we have, and we have made for the sectors that we have made for which we have made for which we have made for the sectors that we have, and we have, and we have, and we have, and we have made for the years, and we have, and we have done for the year, and we have done for the sectors that we have made the years, and we have made the years, and we have made the years, and we have just received, and we have made a year, and we have made a year, and we have made a year, and we have made a year, and we have made down tax tax tax tax tax tax tax reductions, and we have asked tax tax reductions, and we have made, and we have asked tax reductions, and we have, and we have just have [[Applause]] In this budget allocation, in addition to saying that they will have a maximum score for those areas that have been affected by frost. And together with this -- and it would be good if they were concerned not only when there is the problem, but rather to anticipate the problem a little earlier -- we talked about the hiring of agricultural insurance and the new agricultural insurance line came out. It's 4.7 million euros. And we're going to increase by 11 points, and we're going to do it because that's what they're asking us to do -- just like last year there were problems with the nursery sector and they asked us for an increase to 40% and we're not only talking about it, but we're also working on it, and this year they have a 40% increase. I'd have a lot more to tell you in this sense, but it's the first time, in addition, that a specific task force is created to analyze insurance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u370	Thank you. Thank you, it's all over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u371	Thank you very much and until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u372	It's over. It's over. No, I was in the debate... No, let's see... sorry, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry. Wait a minute. Quiet, please. No, no, excuse me a moment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me a moment, sir. Let's see, what's the word for? No, no, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I want to know what it is for. Sorry, I want to know what it is for. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Paula, I think I have to know what the word is for, it may be to get rid of something. [[Murmurs.]] I need to know. What do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u373	...a trial of values, according to article 76.1 I have the right to defend myself... [[Mr. Rivas Cruz pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u374	Tell me... sorry, sorry. No, don't signal me to anyone. You tell me exactly what the value judgment wasn't accurate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u375	They were several.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-05-24-DSPG030.u376	No, one. No, no, sorry. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm going to tell you something, we're going to finish this in peace, I'm going to tell you what happened, because I was in the debate. It was precisely that the People's Parliamentary Group was prepared to vote on its non-law proposal, because it was an inclusive debate, provided that the amendment of En Marea was not included. This is what happened. As the amendment of En Marea was included, the proposal to be voted on by the People's Parliamentary Group could not be voted on. There was no inaccuracy, I was attentive to the debate. [[Murmurs.]] That's right. [[Murmurs.]] We're suspending... There wasn't... I'm telling you, there wasn't... We're suspending the full. See you tomorrow.
