ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. [[Pause.]] Good morning again. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia number 184, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mr. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez justified his absence. And we're on the agenda, one point. Annual general policy debate. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia to inform and discuss the political situation of the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u2	That's what Mr. President of Galicia has to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u3	Mr President of Parliament; Members of the Galego Nationalist Block, the Galician Socialist Party, En Marea and the Galician People's Party; authorities honoring us with their presence in the rostrum; Greeks and Greeks: "Be faithful to my mandate as President of the Union, observe and enforce the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government and the other laws of Galicia and the State, and exercise my functions in the supreme and exclusive interest of Galicia and Spain," I promised and reiterate my promise, today and every day. And no autonomous president can obligate or forget the meaning of these words, at no time and for no cause. I work for Galicia, and I will always do so, with the honor and the obligations that involve this commitment, collected in article 20 of the Rules of Procedure of the Union and its president, and which I have pronounced for the third time less than a year ago. With this very present promise I come here today. This is the seventh time when I open as president a debate on the state of our autonomy, which today has a much better horizon than any of the previous years. The social and economic status of our autonomy is objectively better than in the first debate of the first legislation in 2010, or that in the first debate of the second in 2013. There are problems, demands and new challenges to be achieved, but we can say that the start of this legislation has been best for the Greeks since the beginning of the crisis and since I am serving you as president. For that certainty that you have contributed to a better and referendumed Galicia by the absolute majority that the Greek people gave us last year, you could conclude that this is a less difficult debate for my Government, less difficult for me and less difficult for the majority party of the House. But, you know, ladies? I'm in Catalonia. Because Galicia is Spain, and consequently what happens in the set of Spain affects Galicia. And because Catalonia is Spain, therefore what happens in Catalonia is also felt in Galicia. That is why I feel that no other debate in this Chamber has been held at such unfortunate political times. [[Applause]] Because if it is true that there have been other attacks on our rule of law before, there has never been such a sad thing as that the coups were politicians and that besides the supposedly democratic political forces were ambiguous in their rejection or even obstructed the way to deal with it. Defending coexistence is essential. I do it without palliatives or buts of any kind, and I ask them to make a motion for a resolution in this regard. But I also think that, by itself, this is insufficient. We must also continue to preach with the example so that our people feel at ease with our position in the new dilemma about what we are obliged to pronounce ourselves. Democracy is to vote, and to do it with guarantees, in freedom, under legal protection and in a fair call, but it is also to respect what is voted, such as the Constitution, the statutes of autonomy and the laws we give ourselves with our votes. Otherwise it's not democracy. And in that disjunctive, democracy if or not, in Galicia our answer is clear: in Galicia yes, in Galicia democracy yes. And I subscribe therefore every word that His Majesty El-King said as head of state in his address last night. [[Applause]] I have repeated my commitment to the Constitution and the Statute only to begin my intervention — and they do not forget that all of you, ladies and gentlemen, have also done similar things in order to be able to sit in the seat they occupy — is because no one, absolutely no one, can believe with the right to break, and much less unilaterally, the guidelines of coexistence that we give ourselves when we vote on them. On the contrary, the result achieved in the polls would be a mere pantomime that is accepted when appropriate, but which can be mocked if it is not interested. By the way, that's just a recurrent behavior in dictatorial regimes, as well as cooking votes aside from democracy with the only guarantee that you'll win what's most interested in those who call them. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we rule in Galicia, neither will they be committed nor will the nonsense we're seeing be swallowed up all these days. Ladies and gentlemen, you're not going to commit. [[Applause]] Neither will I as president provide you or Galicia allow you. With all the logic, the Galicians and the Greeks who comply with the laws every day, and who comply with the sanctions when they violate them, they expect us to do the same. Then we're not going to make nonsense and we're not going to swallow them. First of all, because we do not want to be orphaned by the open and peaceful Catalonia which has not left only the thousands of Greeks who emigrated to Catalonia — today live there more than 71,000 Greeks born here in Galicia, in addition to their children and their grandchildren. And secondly, because — as I shall explain carefully — the future of Catalonia is also to talk about our future. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy has become a matter of substance to our country, as much as it does to those who still defend the totalitarianism of the past century or the new currents that arise in this twenty-first century. Greek democracy, as in Spain as a whole, has its first foundation in the Constitution, which recognizes and guarantees our status as free citizens and free people. The individual freedom of both the Greeks and the collective are preserved against any attempt to dodge it. The difference in success in other periods of Spain's history, basic rights are not at the expense of the Government at every moment, but are enshrined as a common denominator of democratic political forces. In this catalogue of basic provisions that are shielded against vegetities and vicissitudes is the state's autonomous structure and therefore the self-government of Galicia. The Statute that develops our autonomy is the second foundation of the common house that protects Greek democracy. It emanates from the Constitution and, like it, has been drawn up and ratified by the Greeks. The democratic Galicia that is now listening to this debate is the daughter of this Statute and daughter of this Constitution. And, therefore, the attack on the Constitution by independence is a direct attack on Greek democracy. The repeated contempt of the Constitutional Court, ordinary courts and courts and consultative bodies is a challenge to Greek democracy. Trying to forcefully change the autonomic system of which we are part is an assault on Galicia. The subversion of the rules that this Parliament shares with other autonomous chambers is a challenge to parliamentaryism in general and, consequently, to German parliamentaryism. When the rights of Catalans are "pied" they also violate the rights of the Greeks. It is easy to understand, therefore, that the crisis opened unilaterally by some Catalan authorities is not something beyond this debate that we have begun. If an anti-democratic process were to be broken down, the State as a whole would be damaged, altered stability, addiction, the affected economy, and our country would not be at the mercy of the consequences. So we defend all the measures that are necessary to ensure that this will not happen. Nor can we be sidetracked by the political reflections that this unfortunate episode produces, nor by the responses given to it from different institutional areas. The state of autonomy is also ours. To underline that this state that is challenged by force is a democratic state may seem superfluous, but it is not. In the worst arts of propaganda, it is used to say that "a thousand times repeated lie becomes true." Unfortunately, it has been more than a thousand times when the democratic state has been qualified than we are part of the Greeks as a "repressor" state or "authoritarian" state. This is one of the worst lies that can be heard in a country like ours that has suffered the consequences of a dictatorship, and not so long ago. That's why it's only in this headquarters that we will reiterate that Spain we are part of is a full democracy that can be approved by the best democracies in the world. We don't live in a regime of oppressors who manage supposed colonies in their foolish course; we live, ladies and gentlemen, in a full democracy. We live, ladies and gentlemen, in a democracy and the insurrection of independence does not occur against a dictatorship, but against a democracy; it is not done by democratic methods, but by violating all democratic methods; it is not carried out with respect to the discrepant, but by condemning it as a second-class parliamentarian or citizen. [[Applause]] It is, as the manifesto signed by tenants who presented themselves as on the left, a "antidemocratic scam". The first scam is Catalonia, but also all the other territories of Spain, and therefore Galicia. So on which side, ladies and gentlemen, should a Greek Democrat be placed? Because there are debates in which there is no room for ambiguity: either if you are going to question the decisions of the judges or if you condemn yourself; or if you abuse the breach of the law or if you condemn yourself; or if you are going to signal yourself to mayors, constables and deputies for their ideology or if you are going to question their families or if you condemn yourself; or if you are taking advantage of the intimidation of journalists or if you condemn yourself; or if you are going to attack the security forces and bodies or if you condemn yourself; or if you are going to preach the supremacy of half a people over the other half or if you condemn yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, you're either going to use minors when you're committing illegalities or you're going to be convicted. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing, nothing, nothing you're doing in recent times Catalan independence can inspire Galicia. Everything, everything, everything is ashamed of us. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, on which side should a Greek Democrat be located? Where is this Parliament on which side? Because, ladies and gentlemen, if all this isn't enough for them, we must bear in mind that this rebellion is inspired by the kind of rebellion that produces in some collective solidarity justice among the peoples of Spain. This statement is not a mere prejudice. Let us remember that the same Government of Catalonia instigating these illegal actions if it refuses to participate in the preparatory debates of the financing model, despite being this Autonomous Community the first beneficiary of the Autonomic Liquidity Fund, that is, the solidarity of the Greeks and the rest of the Spaniards. They say, "They don't listen to us" and at the time they leave their space for the dialogue empty. Let us not forget, however, that the slogan "Spain steals us" was at the origin of the independent campaign. To say Spain is also to say Galicia, and Galicia, gentlemen, does not rob anyone. Our people make up an honest and hardworking people, and our duty is to defend them, and that's what I'm here for. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, on which side should a Greek Democrat be located? Do you have to be guided by the interests of your country or become a spokesman in Galicia for actions against our people? I have a clear answer, ladies and gentlemen. I respect the judicial work to punish the obvious crimes that are being committed under the excuse of independence, and also the political work that must also be done on the Catalan issue. It's necessary and, in view of what's happening, urgent. I am in favour of using politics, but not that it means amenating all sovereign claims, as some interventions seem to be deduced. That would not strengthen our democracy at all, nor would it strengthen Galicia. And, ladies and gentlemen, a Greek Democrat, if he really is, is always with democracy and always with Galicia. That's why I want to pass on to the Greeks against insubmission, demagogy and, sadly, the partyism behind the political events of these last few weeks, the Greek Government will continue to move at all times in legality, in moderation and in general interest. [[Applause]] There is no fairness between defending the rule of law and breaking the law, defending Galicia or standing on the side of those who don't think about Galicia at all. I hope to count on this point with the support of this Parliament. Anyway, if there was any party in this House that would prefer to remain anchored in the indefinition or directly in favour of the independenceists, I guarantee that Galicia will remain protected from those who want to harm our democracy. [[Applause]] In view of all the arrivals that seek the agreement that represents our people, Galicia's position will not be subjected to the imposition of no political party on which I owe my office and constantly use it as currency of exchange. Ladies and gentlemen, I owe my country only, my government partner is the Greeks and my coalition is with Galicia. That's what the citizens wanted when they expressed a powerful result in last year's autonomous elections, and this mandate, of course, we're also going to respect it. [[Applause]] This is of great importance in recent times because many of the problems of unrest that we are living in as a whole in Spain are explained precisely by the abuse of some political forces that are unable to win in the legal and democratic elections. Negotiations of budgets in cities, villages, communities and, as we are seeing, even in the central government are a recurring example of this. This hemicycle was witnessed years ago as socialist advisors had to accept that all decisions were subject to the last word of the nationalists. There are also many voices that place the germ of the Catalan problem on the dependence that successive national governments had on nationalism in Spain. The most recent, that of the Socialist Government that is currently facing the independence challenge in Catalonia. And the tyranny of some minorities is more manifest than ever before, with a Catalan government becoming a puppet in the hands of openly radical and anti-systemal parties that decided who, how and when of all that is happening. To avoid these perverse effects I still think, and at this time even more clearly, that within the political reforms that Spain needs to work to shield the administrations against the blackmail of those parties that do not accept the role that gives them democracy and that act they only have to be the protagonists because the country seems secondary to them. I make this proposal since the legitimacy that gives me the only autonomous president of Spain supported by a party that has the absolute majority; therefore, the only president who is at the forefront of this problem. Because Galicia, since it was wanted by the Greeks, continues to have the security of its governance for all the years to come. [[Applause]] But that the problem doesn't suffer directly from Galicia right now doesn't mean that the problem doesn't exist. That's why I'm defending to keep limits; limits to which a single party can decide the future of all and in all matters, of course, but also limits for another party, and above minority, be able to put dams so that most of them can keep moving forward. Because, gentlemen, negotiation is enriching, but paralysis is not. Fortunately, Galicia is making progress. It has at this moment economic improvement and social unity to be able to do so, and it also has the necessary political stability. First of all, because in Galicia there is a responsible Government that meets the rules of the State to which we belong and the rules of autonomy and which, consequently, has free hands to self-governance. That's why we have maintained self-government against other communities in rescued practice. And that's why it's unthinkable for the three powers of the state — the executive, the legislature and the judiciary — to be forced to reprobate us and even to intervene in our accounts. And secondly, because in Galicia there's a government dedicated to managing reality, not changing the past or elucuating the future from the fallacy. The clearest effect of this is that I can announce to you something that should not be newsworthy, but that in Spain today it certainly is. The difference of so many cities and municipalities in Greece, and the difference also in some autonomous communities, and the difference in the difficulties that the central government is experiencing, Galicia will again have budgeted next year when and how it corresponds, in time and form. For any Government it is important to have at the right time a roadmap to determine the priorities of each exercise, but perhaps more in 2018 where the Union will have the largest budgetary margin of action since the start of the crisis for four basic reasons: [[Applause]] The first is because economic growth and collection translates into a higher level of resources, and forecast is to have about 500 billion euros more than in 2017. The second is for better use of European funds. In this first year, we have already been able to design a new management system according to the requirements of the Union, which has enabled us to become in the Community with more approved operations. They represent 23% of the total Feder programmed by 2020, five times as much as the average of the European regions. The third, because it is the Community that has increased its debt in recent years, allows us to see the debt/GDP ratio reduced by the end of this year in 2018 even more intensively, i.e. we will have less financial expenditure. And the fourth, to be a fulfilling Community, because we have met the target of deficit in 2016, we will meet again this year and I assure you that we will meet the next one again, made the Central Government create a cost-specific financing mechanism at practically zero, which has already allowed us a saving of EUR 346 million since 2015 and to those that will add up to EUR 80 million in 2018. In short, more resources will have the following destination: fewer taxes, more family support, an important expansion of dependency care, more investments in public health, more resources for innovation and more measures to promote employment. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the progress of our country and the well-being of our people are still our main tasks. It's the basis of the electoral program that has evaluated most of the Greeks and is the axis of my investment speech. We're doing it in this first year of legislation and we're still doing it. I want to underline it because it is terribly unfair that the same citizens who have suffered, have faced and are overcoming a historical economic crisis now see an unprecedented institutional crisis open. The only true achievement of sovereignists is to get more of them to be spoken of in Spain than in the people who are unemployed, that of people who have precarious contracts, that of people who have difficulty reaching the end of the month. Don't you think it's sad that they've devoted more effort to independentists than to people with economic difficulties? To me, and I reiterate my commitment that the instability of other administrations does not move to Galicia. The Greeks and the Greeks are not in search of self-determination, much less they are moving in insubmission. What they're basically dedicated to is fighting every day for a better future for them and theirs, and they deserve to have us all right now. I came to the elections so Galicia would continue to be a stable community, so that Galicia would function rationally as the Greeks do. My people still have my full commitment and your Government has the inevitable commitment to fulfill. Ladies and gentlemen, without falling into the mistakes of an unbalanced optimism, the context is most favourable to Galicia. The recovery is consolidated with an increase of more than 3% over the last three years and a forecast of 2.7 % for the next 2018. We also advance in convergence with Eurozone: 2.8 points in the last two years, and last 2016 achieved the highest level of convergence with the state average: 89.1%. Economic improvement is also reflected in the collection: last year the main taxes in Galicia have increased by 3.2%, more than the national average, and this year evolution is also being positive. And logically, this has a direct recovery in our country's fundamental goal: job creation, which has been constant for more than three years. Not in vain, the last recorded unemployment data we knew yesterday even confirmed this trend: 10,279 unemployed people less than a year ago, 19,373 affiliated more than a year ago, and they continue to also present better collective priority behaviors such as young people, women and long-term unemployed. The current situation, therefore, allows us to maintain the objective that we set in this regard in the Strategic Plan 2015-2020, and that I assumed one year ago in the investment discourse, which is only to reduce the unemployment rate around ten percent to the end of the legislation. To contribute to this, they know that we are developing Agenda 20 for Employment, which only in 2017 I assumed to activate more than a hundred million euros in support programs for about 20,000 unemployed more and more than twenty-two million people to improve the training of other 12,000 people who are working. Letter training designed by companies themselves, aids up to 7,000 euros to encourage young people's recruitment, the Women's Employment Plan, specific actions to promote rural employment, naval employment, automotive... are examples of a battery of measures that have been reinforced with more resources in this first year of legislation and that have allowed us to reach those who need it most and wherever needed. Our commitment is to continue on this line, and I would like to highlight to you two upcoming decisions: job reform and public service reform. The reform of the employment workshops so that they have a more real link to the productive fabric of the comarcas where they take place. And also the reform of the Public Employment Service both to strengthen the number of mentors and to review the methods and achieve greater effectiveness. Because of its importance in our work, at this point I would also like to refer specifically to self-employed people. They know that drawing up a roadmap for this collective was one of the priorities that we scored last year. Well, the board's meeting. The Strategy for Support for Independent Greeks is underway so that it will be the Community with the greatest facilities to be autonomous, thanks to measures such as the extension of the 50 euro flat rate, the creation of the 3,000 euro autonomic bonus or the six-week extension of the bonus to reconcile by the birth of a child, and also opening it up to the parents. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, these kinds of measures are basic to the work reality which is conjunctural at the moment. But we still have to make it clear that they must be accompanied by a long-term commitment, which prepares for the next generations and also the current demands that the productive sectors already have and will also have tomorrow. It is inevitable to do so, for example, given that, according to recent reports, by 2030, the Spanish economy will increase by two million jobs linked to automation and digitization. In my investment, I said Galicia can't stay behind this challenge and I think they're taking important steps. Preparation starts logically from the moment a boy or a girl enters public school, but there are three other areas that also reach and in which we continue to work in this legislation: First, vocational training. As a result of the expansion of squares -- 47% more than in 2009 -- and the generalized wager for dual vocational training, today these studies already have a higher demand than university studies and, most importantly, employability in vocational training is around 80%. We must persevere and to that end we shall announce to you that we will promote the first campus dedicated exclusively to vocational training in Galicia, where several FP point centres will share a space where innovation and the birth of new companies will be promoted. [[Applause]] Second, college. It's essential that the three universities have already started to draw a new Map of Titles, adapted to professional demands and campus specialization, something Galicia is a pioneer and deserves express recognition for rhetorical teams. In addition, I also announce to you the next development of the University Excellence Programme, which will include, for example, degrees in English for the first time, scholarships for higher-performance students or actions to improve the position of the Greek universities in international classifications. Vocational training, university and also the training of people who are already in the labour market; this is the third pillar. In this case, we are committed to developing a plan for adapting professional profiles to the new industry, i.e. increasing its training in areas such as Industry 4.0 and innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an obligation for workers today and the future to adapt to the needs of the productive tissue, but at this point I would also like to record the need for this statement to be reciprocal. Companies must also adapt to their workers. I make this statement with the legitimacy that I believe it gives us to apply it in our public employment policies, with the intensity that allowed us every moment. Today, more than 8,000 public employees count on the advantages of hourly flexibility and teleworking. Since 2009, more than six thousand and eight hundred public employees have benefited from the transfer contests. And, as we call for a very important effort during the recession, we're trying to return the economic improvement. So we were one of the first communities to rest the extra days of rest and free will. And for this reason, Galician public employees have already begun to recover their purchasing level, with an average salary of 1,400 euros per worker in the past year. And so we are committed to ensuring public employment in this legislation, and with the greatest stability possible. So we will announce to you that until 2020 we will carry out an unprecedented public job offer: 14,000 new public job offer markets. New jobs that will place the public employment temporality rate around 5-7%, i.e. in terms of practical stability. In the same way that we practice this in the public domain, I insist — and I have sent it to the representatives of the employer — that the improvement in employment, which is already a reality, should continue to be measured in quantity, but also in quality, in the Galician group; that is, in wage improvements and better conditions for the Greeks who work in companies that have already benefited in recent years. In better wages because it's fair for employees to receive part of the revenues they're also generating with their efforts, derived from improved productivity in the economic sectors in which they work. And in better conditions, through facilities to reconcile and review work hours, because this is still one of the main handicaps of employment reality in Galicia and Spain. And by the way, let us not forget that both wages and conciliation would surely have the greatest impact on the task of ensuring the viability of the pension system. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we can speak in these terms, if we can clearly opt for more expansive policies, it is because, as I told you from the beginning, the economic situation allows it to do so. Let me give you some examples: In the sea — a sector that in 2009 lost weight in GDP and employment — there is a higher growth than in the whole of the Greek economy. In fact, the value of the sales of fresh fish and seafood reached the highest figure of the last 20 years in 2016. In the field, where we've been in 2017, memberships have risen to more than three thousand three hundred people, plus 8%, and last year Galicia was the Community where the milk price was highest, 11.4%. In industry, of having sectors that seemed to fade, such as naval or automotive, we are recovering levels of pre-crisis activity. The most recent data speak of an increase in industrial production by 4.7 % in the last year, and the entry of new applications into the Welsh industry has increased by 9.1% this year. And from the service sector, to record falls of up to 13.8% in February 2009, we've been positive for more than three years, almost two years, evolving above average, and with accumulated increases around 9% this year. All these statements, of course, admit nuances, but they are not negative to the fact that in recent years there has been an overwhelming capacity for overcoming the people of Greece which is undeniable. We move forward when there were the greatest difficulties, and now that they have been significantly reduced we can and we must do it with greater intensity. That's what we proposed in the electoral program, that's what the Greeks supported with an exceptional majority, and that's what we're doing. So, with responsibility, logically, for not going back, I'm keeping my goals to those I've committed a year ago in the economic field, and to those we've moved on for the first 12 months. I mean, this is the legislation of the primary sectors, that more and more entrepreneurs embark on innovation and that Galicia continues to expand its presence and influence internationally. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, if Galicia can continue to entrust much of its economic future to the primary sectors, it is because they maintain intact their main strength to compete in the market. The ability of workers to achieve the best performance of our natural resources keeps the quality of rural and sea products unquestionable. For that reason, in the first year of legislation, we strengthen the bet by transforming and marketing Greek products with quality as a brand, convinced that within Galicia, in the whole of Spain and also in the international field, it is increasingly being achieved through differentiation. The Horizon 2020 Conservation Plan recently adopted with the sector, and the commitment to do so also in the frozen sector; new geographical indications protected as the Galician Cow and Boy or Pan Galego; the promotion of quality brands consolidated as the 100% Gagale Fish or Milk; or support for the exports of the wine sector, which grew by 68.5% in the last five campaigns; all of this is some outstanding examples of what we want to follow. In fact, we assure you that we are already designing two outstanding instruments: the Plan for the Promotion of Agri-Food Quality and the Strategic Plan for Ecological Production. The Plan to promote agri-food quality, for Galicia to continue in the vanguard of products of excellence, with more protected geographical indications, with more producers and more industries involved, and with more tools to fight against unfair competition in this area. And the second instrument, the Strategic Ecological Production Plan, a sector of great importance for Galicia, with potential for growth and with a remarkable presence of women and youth, and which therefore needs a normative, economic and fiscal impulse. Ladies and gentlemen, this effort in the last link to the chain never makes us forget that the main support must be for the Greeks who generate these products from the countryside or the sea. Especially in this last sector, the sea, the first year of government, has proved to be quite fruitful for today, for example, more resources: the new European Maritime and Fisheries Fund has made available nearly €5 billion up to 2020; more quotas for our fleet: 20% more in the last distribution; more shellfish areas, as we continue to recover unproductive areas, with more than eight million square metres recovered from the year 2009; more possibilities for development of the coastline: we are the most advanced Community in support of groups working to open new routes of richness on the coast. And at all, I'm telling you that further simplification of the rules will also be added to make your query and application simpler. However, the most relevant challenges in the sea sector that we are facing at this time, and which have not yet closed, will be resolved at European level. I mean the elimination of discard regulations and the impact of Brexit. In both of us, we are working with the hands of the sector, and I hope that with the support of all parliamentary groups as well; supporting our experts, those I want to thank for their work; and seeking allies that contribute to the defence of our interests. I myself have transferred our demands to Brussels and next month I will have the opportunity to do it again by participating in the Brexit Conference organized by the Maritime Regions of the Union, which will take place in Cardiff. Ladies and gentlemen, in front of Brexit, we will look for Galicia to be more present than ever in Europe. [[Applause]] We're also working on making new opportunities available on the farm. And this logically happens to persist in the three lines of action that we've drawn in recent years: First, to persevere in the goal of a rural environment with services similar to those already available in urban areas. So we're supporting the installation of technology connections up to 350 megas for companies located in isolated areas; or that's why we have a Rural Road Plan, which has already allowed us improvements at 1,800 kilometers in 295 municipalities. Secondly, to persevere in the best organization on earth, which is a task that takes time, of course, but where we are already moving forward and where we are committed to moving forward. I maintain the commitment that the greater momentum in this legislation is given to the partial restructuring, with the objective that everyone — I say, "all" — of the concentration processes opened up to now are closed in 2020. This will conclude 130 files, this will order 116,000 hectares, and this will deliver the property titles to 92,000 Greek families. I also maintain the commitment that this effort to improve management extends to the forest area, betting by the owners' groupings for the joint management of the mountains; a figure in which we observe growing interest and which we will facilitate in the coming months. Secondly, by improving the equipment of the extensive pastoral areas, especially in the provinces of Pontevedra and Ourense; and also by completing the review of the Forest Plan, which we have already begun this first year in the spirit of setting clear targets of the mountain use for the next two or three decades. So in the field we try better services, better organization and, above all, greater facilities for living in rural and rural areas. Forwarding CAP payments, strengthening aid for young people who develop a project in the field or for the generational remittance on farms have that goal. But you know, ladies and gentlemen, that beyond time support, our rural economic policy is ambitious, in my opinion, of the most ambitious there was in Galicia. And despite that, I'm telling you it's not enough. I told them a year ago that the whole society, starting with the Government, had to compromise on this issue. We're doing this, and that's why we're telling you that next year we're going to reinforce the zero tax plan in rural areas. Since 2016 there are zero taxes for anyone who buys, expands or permuts a plot; there is no tax anywhere else in Spain. Since this year 2017, zero taxes for young people, large families or people with disabilities who buy a rural housing. Well, next 2018, we will approve a new tax reduction — which I will then give them — for those investments that generate some economic activity in rural areas. And also improvements in taxation for investments linked to forest management companies. I mean, for the third consecutive year, who bets on rurals will pay less taxes. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago I also presented to you the need to make greater progress on the path of innovation, in all sectors, and especially in industry. I am aware — and so I said — that in recent years most entrepreneurs have focused their efforts on surviving. We know at the Union because in recent legislation, more assets and loans have been made than in all the history of the Autonomous Community, and there is still a high demand for the various funding programmes that we have at our disposal. The Galicia 1000 funding programme, for example, is expected to reach 3,000 small and medium-sized enterprises this year. However, at this point too, the situation is more hopeful. The alliances produced in dairy cooperatives and the new transformation projects in the dairy sector provide for greater added value in this industry. The forest leadership is still a reality, and we hope to keep it a contribution to the Forest Industry Agency, which will be approved for next week as I promised a year ago. The boost in the textile sector shows the increase in exports by 12% in the first seven months of the year. The workload was recovered on the shipyards of the Greek naval, where we are again leaders in contract numbers this year. In the automotive industry, the new charges obtained by the PSA plant in Vigo will cover investments of EUR 3,000 million and workload for the next ten years. And we were able to open up to new and cutting sectors like the aeronautics, which advances in the hand of the technology pole of Rozas in Lugo. We therefore have a more stable economic present, which allows us to be able to cope more decisively with the coming world. And that's about incorporating innovation on a business day-to-day basis. The will exists and the commitment of the Administration as well. In fact, Galicia is the fifth Community where private investment in R & D+i grew the most between 2013 and 2015. In the same period, Galicia was the second largest Community in public expenditure. The intention of Junta is to deepen more intensely on this path, and in fact, the assumption of innovation will be one of the largest within the Council of Economics. This is not a timely decision, it's a consistent decision. It's the logical continuation of the work we've been doing in recent years so that, in the same way that Galicia has already been associated with quality, it can increasingly be associated with innovation. In the last year, at the dawn of the RIS3 Smart Specialization Strategy, we're sinking into the three lines of action you've already known: the first one, empowering Galicia as one of the headquarters of R & D+i; the second one, encouraging innovation in companies; and the third one, recovering and rescuing talent. Powering Galicia as one of the headquarters of R+D+i we compromise and comply with it. Our Community is being able to attract Galicia's pioneering projects from large multinationals. The Joint Innovation Unit Program has already attracted twenty-four companies that are working with our knowledge centres to boost vanguard projects, become more competitive and generate more qualified jobs. Sectors such as energy, food, naval or automotive are some of the beneficiaries, and also biosanitary, by the way. Galicia will become the home of Spain's first incubator dedicated to research to discover new drugs. The second line is action to promote innovation in companies, we compromise and we do. Industry 4.0 is a reality for many Greek companies, and already a reference for it to be known as the factory of the future. Through the Industry Agenda 4.0 we managed to mobilise 343 million euros, reach 4,200 companies and generate 11,500 new jobs in the industry. And in the next few months we're going to redouble this bet, and that's it. In addition to renewing the calls already in operation, such as that which allowed Citroën or Televes to strengthen the conversion to the smart factory, we will strengthen the network of accelerators with an aerospace projects program in Lugo, alongside Rozas, and will make available new financing mechanisms in this area, such as the Innovative Financial Instruments Programme, which we will approve this week, with an initial investment of 60 million euros for entrepreneurs who encourage to modernise their processes. And the third line of our commitment to innovation is, of course, talent, and we commit and comply with it. Galicia has and will keep several lines of support open for our researchers to stay or return to Galicia to their career. In addition to resources, we will continue to complete the specialization of universities, where we have been immersed for several years. Thus, we remain committed to the leader who exercises the Campus do Mar in Vigo and the Campus Vida de Santiago, of international excellence, and we will strengthen them. In the case of the Campus do Mar, through the facilities of Berbés and ETEA, and at the Campus Vida, with a new Faculty of Medicine and Nursing for the whole of Galicia. In addition, we were pioneers in the process of betting on the specialization of non-central campuses. The result is Campus Terra de Lugo, Campus Water de Ourense, Campus Industrial de Ferrol. And we'll go this way, for example, the Innova Campus and the Coruña Sustainability Campus, and the Pontevedra Crea Campus. Ladies and gentlemen, support for primary sectors and innovation is linked to internationalisation, where, without a doubt, we have a long way to go. After the years 2013, 2014 and 2015 were the years of greatest export of our history, in 2016 we again hit the historical record of exports, with sales abroad for an amount of 20 billion euros. And the data of the first seven months, where exports this year grew by 9.3%, encourages us to think that this year 2017 will return to record results. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the German Government supports and will continue to support the Greek companies so that their products are increasingly present in the world. We do so when we defend the interests of the Greeks in debates such as the Brexit negotiations or when we participate and preside over supranational instruments, such as the Euroregion Galicia-North of Portugal. And we do this as well when we accompany the entrepreneurs in the most likely destinations. The last time I had the chance to do so was to visit China — the second world power for GDP — last June. And we will continue to do it as long as we can, so that Galicia is in the world, ladies and gentlemen, and also that the world is in Galicia. In relation to this last week and in the last few weeks, this Parliament has given green light to the processing of a law, which in our opinion will be of paramount importance: the law of enterprise implementation. [[Applause]] In recent years we have taken great steps to facilitate investments in Galicia; the prior licence obligation has generally been eliminated; we have approved tax incentives for entrepreneurs; we have undermined and made access to industrial soil more flexible, to the point that in the last two years we have sold 37% of the total available soil in Galicia, that is, we have paid more than one million square meters. We've made an unprecedented bet on technology, first, by getting all the Greeks to have access to the broadband and now working to do it at higher speeds as well; for example, at the end of this year next, 93% of the area occupied by the polygons will count on the Internet with a quality of more than 350 megas. And we also devote more resources to energy infrastructure, continuing to develop the wind competition, biomass strategy or Galicia's gasification plan, which follows its course so that at the end of the legislation 82% of citizens and businesses have access to natural gas. In this way, we will announce that we will also develop jobs to introduce natural gas into the heavy transport of goods by road. However, I am aware that Galicia must strengthen its position, essentially because of the competition it exercises in our surroundings, and especially in northern Portugal. The law of entrepreneurship is born with the vocation not to be equalized by lowering wages. We don't want Galicia to become a low-cost country. We propose to compete with more facilities and incentives for investors, while maintaining environmental, sectoral and urban guarantees. In fact, in addition to the biggest bet never made by the Union to eliminate administrative obstacles and develop polygons to the letter, which are geared to the needs of companies and not to the contrary, the rule will also include incentives to municipalities that help, municipalities that reduce their taxes in their municipal term, municipalities that reduce for new investments the taxation of immovable property, taxes on economic activities, taxes on construction and installations and works and opening fees. And that's also what we're going to add to the commitment to exempt from legal acts tax documented to all those business land transactions that are made by administrations as of January 1, 2018. As a result, any company that buys a plot in an industrial polygon in Galicia will not pay the transaction tax, the legal act tax documented from that date on. [[Applause]] Because catching investment is a country priority where we're all needed. So we have to make a joint effort, both from the taxation of autonomous taxes and from the taxation of local taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, we're still open to trying to achieve a consensus business implementation law. In this spirit we work with the municipalities, social agents, parliamentary groups in the last few days, so we will continue to complete the process of regulation. I hope we get some deal. Ladies and gentlemen, in the economy of the future of which we are talking about, there are two features that call us for the coming years, which will have a great impact on Galicia and which, therefore, we must also address together and conveniently. These two features in our opinion are the next Year of Xacobeo and the culmination of the pending truces of rail speed. With regard to Jacob 2021, I don't think it's excessive to say that we're talking about one of the great opportunities of this legislation. Even though the formal date is the next, the work has to be done from now on, to collect the fruits not only arrived that year — which would no longer be a little — but also to collect the fruit as before. The next Holy Year comes in the best context, both by general economic evolution and by the growth of Greek tourism. Galicia receives more visitors than ever and comes from more places than ever. And since we are a welcoming and hospitable people, they will honor us with their presence, because, ladies and gentlemen, here they are, here they are. [[Applause]] In this past summer, ladies and gentlemen, in some parts of Spain — in Galicia, fortunately, residually — we attended several episodes of a phenomenon that has been called tourism phobia. I am convinced that most of our people are not recognized by those behaviors, and therefore I expressly ask them to support them so that we can clearly reject them in this Parliament. Our vocation is to work to boost and expand these record figures of tourism, and that's why the Government continues to make decisions. We have developed a tourism strategy with the sector to strengthen our position as a peaceful and quality tourist destination. We continue to promote the use of Galician thermal wealth, or actively promote our natural wealth. I therefore call for the support of all groups to ensure that the Atlantic Islands and the Sacred Ribeira are declared ‘the heritage of humanity’, that the many arguments we already have to achieve it are also added to political unity. But, as I told you, the main tourist opportunity and the economic consequence we have is the Xacobeo, which will culminate in 2021, but will begin to perceive itself in the coming year. We're setting up Santiago's roads through the actions planned in the Plan Director, as well as working on the preservation of the goods of cultural interest of the Way and the rehabilitation of its goal: the cathedral of Santiago. We will also improve the promotion, not just towards the great moment of the year 2021, but towards concrete milestones, such as the "The Sound of the Way" program, which will be held by next year 2018. And also preparing the organization with the next interdepartmental commission set up for the preparation of Xacobeo. The situation of the year 2009 cannot be repeated again, when there was still nothing done for Jacob of the year 2010. The Xacobeo 2021 must be Galician showcase that we are: an organized people, a careful people, an innovative people, a dynamic people and a welcoming people. Ladies and gentlemen, the second great milestone that we are summoned to at the end of the decade is the end of the high rail speed, and this must be the legislating in which AVE is completed to Galicia. It is the duty of the Government to do so and it is the responsibility of the opposition not to block it, and it is a requirement from Galicia to each other. There are advances that have reflected in the times of connection, they have already been reduced to four and a half hours last year, and the forecast is to stay under four hours next year, but we must reach the final goal. And the goal is that VA to the Meseta works at the end of the year 2019 and that it continues to advance in the committed internal connections: the AVE to Lugo, the AVE Ourense-Vigo, the Ourense variant and the improvement of the connection to Ferrol. We had to stop delays of more than eight years and then a new delay of a year of political paralysis in Spain. We appreciate sincerity, transparency and commitments, but we will often report that Galicia is not going to waste any more time than we've lost. The entry of the AVE coincides with other important steps in the area of mobility. Directly linked, there's the impulse to intermodal bus and railway stations. Even though in the Coruña efforts to push it are being obstructed by continuous changes in the Council's approach, we hope that they will cease, in Vigo, Santiago and Ourense, the processing is moving forward. In fact, this very week in Santiago we will complete the urban process with its approval at the Council; in Vigo we have completed the environmental process; and in Ourense we have begun the expropriatory process. Of course, we're working to design the Pontevedra intermodal stations -- it's very advanced -- and also in Lugo and Ferrol. And indirectly, they also influence other mobility improvements: The metropolitan transport, which has been operating for years in Santiago, La Coruña, Lugo and Ferrol, and in the area of Vigo except in its main municipality. And in addition to the freeness of metropolitan public transport for those under the age of 19 on the lines that depend on the Union — and I still ask that it extend also to the urban lines in the municipalities—, this year we will begin the reform of public transport, which has already translated into savings for the Greeks up to 80% of the amount of the ticket. We'll also continue to work on the German Highway Network; of course, insisting on security. In this legislation we will act in all the stages of concentration of accidents in Galicia to reduce the fallacy and make a special effort to protect the lives of cyclists. Also with new roads. But, ladies and gentlemen, since 2009 Galicia has over 66% high-capacity track kilometres. About 80% of the Greeks have already lived in less than 15 minutes of one of them. And to reach a hundred percent we are moving on in relevant truces such as Morrazo's highway, where the first two truces will enter service in the first half of the year that has already begun the last works; the highway of the Coast of Death, where we are drafting the project of extension to Vimianzo; after the highway Santiago-La Estrada, for which this same year we will start the expropriations; the highway of the North Coast, where this same year we made available the Treito Celeiro-San Cibrao and we work on a new design for the variant of Viveiro and make it true; the conversion of the highway between Lugo and Sarria, drafting the project for the tract The Poor of San Xiao-Sarria; and the connection between the highway of Urense and San Cibrao of the Vines, which we will bid this year 2017. Likewise, we will demand progress, of course, the Development to finish important highways, such as Santiago-Lugo, in which the last two truces that allow us to have it in works or executed, or the Circulation of Pontevedra, or the Lugo-Ourense highway, in addition to pushing axes like the Navy corridor, that we do not forget or give up that the State administration fulfils its commitments. Finally, a Galicia connected with better conditions, connected with more opportunities. [[Applause]] Galician growth is good economic news, but I assure you it's also good social news. Because, thanks to him, today I can tell you that the Greek Government has a margin of action to continue to lower taxes and to continue to improve public services. Just as we think we have to, as we can do, as we do. It was in our agenda even at the most complicated moments of the economic recession. Some communities are now following our example, now adopting the tax cuts that the Greeks have been enjoying for some time. Since 2009, the Greeks have paid nearly a billion euros less in taxes thanks to tax reductions that we approved or have kept for all these years. Galicia will continue to be at the vanguard of Spain as far as taxes are concerned. And in this sense, I move my commitment to maintain and expand tax incentives next year: to maintain the exemption from succession tax to 99% of the Greeks, to maintain the IRPF among the lowest in Spain for middle and low incomes, to maintain the Plan of Disgravations for families with children, to maintain the zero tax plan in rural and to expand all this with four new tax discounts that we will include in the budgets of the Board for next year. I'm talking about a deduction program that will allow: First of all, pay less taxes — both income tax and wealth tax — to those people who invest in land and rustic goods who find themselves underutilized and thus dynamic activity in our farm. Second, pay less taxes — both from IRPF and from heritage — from those people who invest in a forest management society. Third, pay less taxes — there are deductions in IRPF and we will expand those in heritage — for people who invest in the rehabilitation of historic helmet buildings or in economic activities in them. And fourth, don't pay the tax on documented legal acts to those who buy industrial soil from public administrations. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, not only will the Greeks pay the inheritance tax for most of them, they will not only continue to have one of the lowest income taxes for middle and low incomes, they will not only continue to have the zero tax program in rural areas, but they will also pay less taxes for those who invest their assets in agriculture, in forestry, in the rehabilitation of historical helmets or in the purchase of industrial soil. That Galicia is generating more and more jobs and growth allows us to amplify the tax discharges of recent years, but it also allows us to strengthen another of the fundamental lines of action of this Government. Thanks to growth, Galicia has more funds to ensure the well-being of families. Some of you have already heard me in many debates about the state of Autonomy. Those who have been here since 2009 can clearly perceive how the prospects of the Community have changed since then. When we got to the government we found a very different economic context than we have today. But at no time do we refuse to maintain public services and let them reach more citizens. Today there are more Welsh and Welsh people who have a new or renewed public hospital, or a new health center near their home than before the crisis. Today there are more families who have a public residence square, a day centre or a care centre for the alzeimer than before the crisis. Today there are more dependents cared for than before the crisis. Today there are more girls and boys with a public school child's place than before the crisis. Today there are more children and children who learn languages and count on a computer in public education classes than before the crisis. These are some examples that, despite the difficulties, the welfare state continues to stand in Galicia and has remained for all these years. And that allows us now to be able to redirect social policy, not to rebuild anything, but to expand services and infrastructure more intensively. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this Government has had to manage a situation of up to 2,000 million euros year by year in budgets rather than before the crisis. But I would like to acknowledge the main merit of the progress made at the most complex times, which are the professionals — the professionals of public education, the professionals of public health, the professionals of social services. It was these professionals who worked for the Greek families to have better public services than in times of economic kindness. And I'm glad we can also make that recognition with facts. I have already told you about the improvements that we are making in the future of the public service and the progress that the next public job offers will make to achieve the practical stability of the professionals who support public education, public health, public social services and the General Administration. In the vocation and work of teachers and teachers of public education, one of the best explanations for the educational results that Galicia has been recording in recent years can be found. Galicia reduced the dropout rate from 25.8% in 2009 to 14.7% today, reaching the target of Europe by 2020. Galicia has the most inclusive education in Spain, because 90% of students with special educational needs are integrated into the same classes as the rest of the students. And Galicia offers higher quality education, as it is shown in the PISA report that we are above all in all indicators of the Spanish media and in most indicators above the OECD average. We want to make the best possible training for the Greeks in the morning in our public education; this includes, of course, multilingual training. One more course increases the number of multilingual centers and bilingual sections; two programs with which parents and teachers are more satisfied. Besides, for the first time, this bet on foreign languages has expanded the child and the bachelor's. Also, to facilitate technological knowledge, we introduced Robotics and Programming into the educational calendar; at the end of this legislation, all students of compulsory education will have access to training on these two subjects. And, of course, we're going to promote the STEM method. To prepare the children of the future, we continue to extend the digital book to more teaching centers. We have launched the acquisition of 20,000 laptops for the next two years or the improvement of Internet connections in all schools necessary for boys and teachers. We strengthen middle school but also the alternatives that exist after leaving high school. In addition to the historical impulse to vocational training — 47% more squares than in 2009 — our university is the most accessible university in Spain, and the rates have been frozen every year since 2009. Galicia has for years been the Autonomous Community at the lowest university rates and will continue in this position. Whereas it's my responsibility, Galicia will have the minimum guaranteed price on the first grade tuition. Furthermore, towards the next course, Galicia will continue to strengthen its system of scholarships so that no one will remain outside the university for economic reasons, especially those with better results. In addition, there will be scholarships of academic excellence to economically reward the student with greater effort and greater performance. [[Applause]] The other great piar of our welfare state, no doubt, is public health, and it's also living an era of renovations and improvements. During the years of economic recession, we encouraged ambitious actions to renew health infrastructures and broaden patients' rights. Now, in recovery, we will consolidate and expand those measures. As far as rights are concerned, last week we finally passed the decree that leaves the maximum waiting times for more than a hundred serious pathologies. In this way we complete the regulatory development of the Health Benefits Guarantee Act, a text that we approve in full economic recession. If economic straits have not prevented us from building and equiping all public hospitals in Vigo and Lugo, in this legislation, we will complete the renewal of the Map of Public hospitals in Galicia: in Ferrrol, we are preparing the renovation of the Architecture Marcide and we hope to begin the work; in Coruña, it is about to open the new surgical block; in Santiago we will extend the Clinical Hospital; in Lugo, we will complete the renovation of the Map of Public hospitals in Galicia: in Ferrol, we are preparing the renovation of the Architecture Marcide architecture and we hope to begin the work; in Coruña, we are about to open the new surgical block; in Santiago Santiago, we will expand the Clinical Town Hall of Public Health: in Venice, we will complete the Residence District Centre; in Pontevedra, we are just opening the Grand Montecercerello project, which is underway; in Vigo, Álvaro Cunqueiro is about to start the new surgical block; in Paris, and in the day zone, the new cycle, the new cycle of the opening, the first of Urbrino of Spain, the beginning of Spain, the beginning of Spain of Spain, and the Hour, and the Best of the Best of the Best of the Best of the Best of the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best of the Bests in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best in the Best Hospital in Hospital in the Best Hospital in the Best in Hospital in Hospital, the Best in the Best in the Best room; in the Best in the Best in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop; in the Hospital, the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Hospital, the Workshop in the Workshop; the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Hospital of the Hospital of the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Hospital of the Hospital, the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Workshop in the Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the legislature all the Greeks and all the Greeks will be served in new or renewed public hospitals, better equipped and better conditions than when we arrived at the government in 2009. And I say, everyone. [[Applause]] Moreover, we also strengthen not only the rights and infrastructure, but the benefits, and we will continue to do so under the umbrellas of the Health Act, which has precisely that as its main objective. That's why we met the Greek mothers and parents with the new child vaccination schedule and also created the adult vaccination schedule. And that's why we continue to prepare ourselves for the most recurrent realities of public health and to care for the most vulnerable people: chronic, older, mental illness, childhood and maternity. We have better public hospitals and health centers, we have more complete and advanced technology, we have more public employment and stability, we have new disease care programs like cancer and stroke. What remains to be done, with the mistakes that can be made, there is only a moment in history that overcomes the current state of public health in Galicia: the future that we are preparing for. Because we don't comply and our commitment is unequivocal and permanent. A commitment like what we have to the Greek families. We said Galicia aspired to be the most supportive place for women and men who decide to have children, and we are fulfilling our word. To be a mother or father in Galicia has more support in Galicia than ever before. As of 2009, there are 80 percent more public-funded infant school squares. For mothers and rural parents there are children's homes, whose first two calls have been excellent; for mothers and parents who work in an industrial polygon, we enable lines of help to open daycare facilities; the measures of the birth support plan, such as the Welcome Card, continue to apply; and we maintain tax deductions for families who have children. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is already a community of reference in support of birth, but I'm moving forward with more. Next year we compromise three further improvements: The first one is to expand the Welcome Card until the child or child is three years old in those middle-income families. The second is to approve a new bonus on the rates of childhood schools: 25% for the second child and 50% for the third and next. And third, public employees will have at their disposal a new measure of conciliation: one maternity leave increased to twenty-two weeks since the present twenty. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the extension of maternity leave up to twenty-two weeks, the Union acts in the field where it has competence over maternity or paternity leave, which is the public service. In 2015 we have increased it from sixteen to eighteen weeks, in 2017 to twenty weeks, with a new permit prepared, and now we take this step that converts Galicia into the Autonomous Community that most supports public employees who decide to have children. This is important for families who benefit from these measures, but what we want with these decisions is also a way to other administrations, institutions and businesses in Galicia. The reconciliation of personal life with family and work life depends not only on government, but also on the awareness and involvement of all administrations and, of course, on all companies. So we promote the creation of the "Welcome, Family" badge, which will help to identify those most suitable arrangements for families with children. Just as a society that respects its elders is a society that respects itself, we respect the commitments made and therefore we initiate the procedures to build seven new homes of older people in the seven cities of Greece, as we commit ourselves. These residences will assume nine hundred new squares and will therefore add new growths to those that have already reached Galicia in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 47% more public squares today than there were in 2009. The seniors in their homes also have other options at their disposal and we'll re-enhanced teleassistation, we'll re-enhanced the lunch program at home, and we'll re-enact five thousand new books. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will not reach 60,000 dependents attended by 2020, as we promise; we will reach 60,000 dependents attended by the end of 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, we will increase our funds to the fullest extent possible to, if the Government also does its part and approves the assumptions, meet the objective of the end of legislation in the middle of the legislation. [[Applause]] Galicia will move from 14,000 dependents attended in 2009 to 60,000 dependents attended in 2018, four times more. The network of well-being that we are weaving every day the Greeks must also reach the people who suffer the most difficulties. Risga's applications dropped in the first nine months of the year, and we rejoice, 23%. In spite of this, the investment in this social benefit has come to be for the first time over 60 million, and I already advance that next year we will significantly increase the aid for this collective to facilitate its work integration. We also act against the most serious consequences of poverty, such as access to energy, what we create the electric ticket, or the risk of being homeless. In the matter of legislation, we put a house at the disposal of a needy family every four and a half days. In addition, Galicia has a complete programme to fight against defiance, which has been praised by the people's valet, with measures such as an improved social rent bonus, the Reconduce program or the Empty Housing Program. I ask once again that the municipalities that have not yet joined this program do so; not by the Joint, but by the people who really need it. [[Applause]] Our housing policy doesn't end here. We will also continue to support reforms to improve the energy efficiency of housing and promote the rehabilitations that put in place the buildings already made, especially in historical helmets. This year, we are working on a new instrument: the Rehabilitation Act, with which we will comply with one of our electoral commitments both to reduce procedures and to facilitate access to funding. Among other developments, it includes: rules of direct adaptation that can be used in historical centres to speed up reforms in secondary or accessibility matters, or the possibility of expropriating abandoned buildings where urgent intervention is necessary. The reactivation of our economy also allows us to give an impetus to a public service of enormous importance, and above all at present, I refer to justice. In addition to moving towards zero paperwork in the judicial administration, we extend to all cities family mediation services, and we will also take new steps to renew infrastructure. Just as in 2013 we launched a new court building in Santiago and 2015 a new court building in Ourense, this last year we made available to the corrupters their new court building and in 2018 we anticipate that the new court building in Pontevedra will be completed, which has already entered the second phase of the works. Works that will also be a reality soon in Tui, where the former health center will concentrate the new judges, and, of course, the new City of Justice of Vigo, which will recover an icon from the city like the old General Hospital and which we expect to end in 2019. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the roadmap I just exposed to shows you that in Galicia you are tracking a path, a path that aspires to more progress and more well-being. Both concepts are united because good social policy is not possible without good economic policy. However, this equation would not be complete if we had not taken into account other factors that also affect, and in some case with great transcendence. I have tried during this intervention to refer to several of them, convinced as I am that we must also anticipate and address the challenges that will present to us today. Addressing the consequences of demographic developments — for example by ensuring the future of pensions — is possibly the most important for the medium and long term. Since the problem is neither recent nor exclusive of Galicia, the Greek Government has been alerting to this issue for some time, and I am aware that both at the national and European level are joining the priority agendas. We cannot be alienated from the need to have a more sustainable economic model. Not only because of the hardening — adapted to our view — of international environmental requirements, but also because protecting our landscape and better ordering our territory also means protecting our identity. We want to consolidate a new environmental culture in Galicia. This is a long-term bet for Galicia to contribute to mitigating climate change: we will progressively reduce emissions according to the climate change strategy and the future strategy of the circular economy. In addition, environmental work will also bear fruit in the short term, thanks to initiatives such as the future Waste Law and the current expansion of Sogama. To ensure sustainable growth, Galicia over the next few decades will have a better organized territory. We have already taken important steps in this direction, since we have approved the Law of the Land and developed it as a whole, and we will continue to move forward with the future Law of Land Management. Since 2009, the Galician population that resides in a place with a general plan has multiplied by three, despite the fall of the Urban Plan of Urban Management of Ourense and Vigo, but there is still work to be done. The autonomous basic plan that we will present in the first half of 2018 will serve as a support point for all municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants to maintain and have urban planning. We will also ensure that in Galicia it is not built at the expense of degradation of the landscape, with tools such as the Landscape Guidelines, the Color and Material Guide, or the Natural Heritage Act — the last in processing —. Economic and urban growth must be compatible with the environment. So, between 2016 and 2017, we pushed about a hundred sanitation works in the Greek municipalities, some as important as the sanitation of the Malata cove in Ferrol, the completion of the works of the Vigo debugger, the completion of the works of the Ourense debugger, more in Santiago, more in the Arousa stream, more in Pontevedra. In addition, the new Galician River Director Plan will guide the management of our rich river network. Moving forward in the management of water resources allows us to perfect the response to situations like the drought decreed forty-eight hours ago in six areas of Galicia. In this respect, I want to transfer a message of confidence because, for the moment, supply to populations is guaranteed, but also my concern because, if there is no rain in the next few months, we can get into a critical situation. Together we are committed to this situation, and in fact we are studying a battery of measures to alleviate the effects of drought, especially in the field as far as possible. Among other things, first, to anticipate CAP aid before 1 December and including exceptional situations such as the use of barbecues for grazing; second, to approve aid for all infrastructures that allow water supply to farms; third, to strengthen aid for the refinancing of liabilities and support for the circulating; and fourth, a measure that complements those proposed by the Central Government, such as the one-year moratorium on the payment of social security for those affected by drought. In any case, it takes the greatest commitment of the citizens, for the impact that this will have on the present, but also for Galicia that we leave for tomorrow. We have to face the challenges that come to us in the coming decades. [[Applause]] And we also have to address and resolve even more immediately the open debate on the new model of self-financing. Their resolution will have an undeniable impact on our ability to ensure and continue to improve, and also on the welfare of our families. So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask a rhetorical question: what is Galicia's interest in self-financing? I'm asking you because the attempt to emulate positions outside Galicia by ideological priority leads us to the absurdity that Galicia's postulates are being defended against Galicia. And applying this to funding is applauding a movement that demands, not only that the new model reduces the weight of our demographic circumstances or the costs of services derived from our geographic dispersion, but also that it punishes our fiscal capacity. Ladies and gentlemen, Imitating what others propose, ignoring that realities and interests are discordant, is a mistake Galicia cannot fall into. First, ladies, because the resulting system would be harmful to Galicia. [[Applause]] To be faithful to our country requires fighting to improve it without ever forgetting what we are. Second, because the insolidarity some preach is inappropriate in our country. Of course, it's amazing to have to remember at this point that all people in Spain deserve the same services. And thirdly, because it's not even complete the economical reading that is done when the territories are reduced to tax terms. Did we pass from Galicia the 167,000 million bill that the Spanish group, and therefore the Greeks, lend to the non-compliant communities? Did we pass from Galicia the bill of economic prejudices that I assumed to Galicia that there are AVE lines operating in other territories for decades and that we have been waiting here? Ladies and gentlemen, we can all build arguments if we intend to widen the differences and place ourselves in the extremes, but I refuse to accept a debate that is marked by false rivalries between communities, between the north and the south, between the east and the west, between the periphery and the centre, either by party, by ideology or by income. In fact, not all communities have the same situation at every moment in history, nor are interests identical, but there are basic principles that should be shared by all. A sample of this statement will be given at the end of this month at the meeting that will be held by the governments of Castile and León, Madrid and Galicia. Three autonomys convinced that one can and must defend one's stances without this breaking with the solidarity justice that was consolidated with democracy in Spain. This meeting has a great deal to do with the starting point for addressing the financing which the Greek representative calls for in the Committee of Experts — certainly a representative approved by this Parliament — and that this committee is responsible for drawing up the proposal for the renewal of the system. This professor, appointed by this Parliament, is drawn from the dominant trend in territorial debates to forget everything and focus exclusively on the parties. I quote: "Friend to what happens in the vast majority of countries, also in decentralised and federal, arguing from a whole or Spanish perspective is quickly seen as an indication of Jacobine prejudices." I don't want that prejudice to affect the Greek position as well. Galicia is interested in getting its aspirations caught up in a viable system, within a sustainable system, but also within a global system. To think that the state is an alien and abstract reality with which we only relate to demanding and claiming is to distort the functioning of the system itself. With this in mind, we argue that the actual cost of services is collected, in view of the theoretical capacity of each Community. And we also defend that if you weigh the weight of the oldest population. Galicia has a commitment to its biggest pioneers, ultimately, to the country we enjoy today; but that commitment has to have a proper format for funding due to the important costs it entails. Ultimately, needs are similar in different communities, but concrete delivery depends on objective variables. This position brings together the demand for a leveling of all services. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia costs more public services, but it can't cost the Greeks any more. We ask for no one else, no more at the expense of anyone; we ask for equality. [[Applause]] This is, ladies and gentlemen, a formula that applies an asymmetry of objective needs rather than unfounded privileges. It's very different in its formulation of those positions that advocate, more or less clearly, for a special status for certain communities. Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, is interested that this debate is essential to the well-being of our citizens is not overshadowed by others. For this reason, I do not accept the crisis generated by the independentists as a pretext to dismantle the decentralization of the state, nor do I allow the idea of surrendering us, almost without the possibility of reply, to the postulate sovereignists. In front of this -- I told you at first -- there is no possibility of indefinition. Falsely, there are political forces that attempt to undermine supposed mediation between two supposed extremes, and even simulate alternatives. They are those who demand day and day if and day also "political solutions", which they are curiously never concrete. There are also those who enter into mere nominalism, as if to call Spain one way or another it would work like a conjuro that would solve the situation instantly. But, ladies and gentlemen, what then? Let us speak clearly: what you are proposing is to give in to something — it is not clear that — those who do not comply with the rules and point out to everyone who does not think like them. Well, ladies, I don't know what those who are willing to do. I don't even know how far they can get or how much it would cost. But if I tell them that at the expense of Galicia they won't, they won't. [[Applause]] Making it easier for all Catalan citizens to feel comfortable in Spain is a shared task, and there will be Galicia with the hand stretched out. But the acquittal of those who violate the Constitution, the Statute and the laws does not depend on those who respect the rules of coexistence; it only depends on those who do not comply with everything. "We are all slaves to the law, so that we may be free," we are all slaves to the law, so that we may be free. Galicia is free because it's with the law. [[Applause]] It should not be necessary to clarify in a democratic Parliament that the only possible framework for dialogue is within Parliament, that is, within democracy. You must return to the constitutional order who has departed from it. There are women and men here who say they don't believe in the Constitution or the Statute, but they promised to fulfill it as a legal imperative. Is it worth more effort to occupy a seat in this Parliament than the coexistence of all the Greeks and all the Spaniards? Ladies and gentlemen, there can be no irreconcilable differences between Democrats. In fact, I don't think there are, and some evidence of the ability to wake up on the issues of the country has recently given. One of the best examples is the Covenant against Gender Violence that has joined us in this Parliament and that has also come true in the Congress of Members. It's a correct path, so I invite you to continue in the future so you can incorporate new instruments into the fight against this scourge. To that end, we have precisely an interinstitutional coordination protocol, which collects the map of available resources and procedures for action in education, health care, legal or social matters. I would also ask you to step up equality at all levels with the First Conciliation and Co-responsibility Plan, which will be approved for the first time in Galicia in this legislation. The unit brings results. Here we had a joint position, without which — I was convinced — Galicia would not have saved 400 million euros in beaches on the Atlantic highway. We maintain it, because the difference now with regard to other times, in which the different central governments have always denied the transfer of the motorway, is that now the whole Parliament is together in the demand. We have made progress and we can move on; we will persevere. To be constructive is the only possible policy for those who think that, respecting the legitimate positions of each party, we are all here to serve our people. From the opposition, which I also occupied, or from the Government, we were chosen here to think and work for Galicia. That's why I argue that our country has an active, singular and constructive presence, which is based on an essential question: what is Galicia's interest? What is the interest of Galicia?, what happens to a breakdown of the state of autonomy that opens up to a balcony in Spain? What is the interest of Galicia?, what are the mechanisms that balance the territorial model?, that fracture the brotherhood among the peoples of Spain?, that break the coexistence? What is the interest of Galicia, which denys the Greeks the right to decide reforms that improve the institutional structure of the State? What is the interest of Galicia, which rewards our contribution to the progress and well-being of the Spanish ensemble or to whom, instead of solving difficulties, causes even more? We have to answer and we have to answer as Greeks, based on our reality, our experience and our expectations as people. To respond like Welsh is to act like Welsh. In Galicia we defend our identity without needing to confront people. We open it to those who want to meet her and show her prideful to the world. That's why we're moving forward in the creation of Galicia's digital memory, which will scan key documents in our history to make them available to everyone. In Galicia we defend our culture without needing to undervalue those of others. We're developing with Galicia's cultural sector the Strategy of Culture, so that, with the good news of the reduction of cultural VAT, we strengthen its position within and outside Galicia. To this we joined the good news that Pergamino Vindel, one of the jewels of our literature, will be exhibited for the first time from day 10 in Vigo, Galicia. In Galicia we defend our language without needing to impose it; we take advantage of the ties that the lusophone world gives us; we continue to work to ensure greater use, especially for young people. That's why we're going to present the Linguistic dynamisation plan between youth, to try to get to know it more than ever — as it is believed — to use it more often. In Galicia we defend our society without putting it between the sword and the wall of an identity debate. We don't think identity is a zero-sum game, where to be more Greek be less Spanish, or vice versa. [[Applause]] We defend a Galicia which is both Spanish and European, or the same thing: a Galicia which is genuinely Welsh. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia values diversity, learns and learns from other peoples, but we haven't changed for anyone else. Galicia wants to remain Galicia and will continue to be Galicia. [[Applause]] And so, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is neither absent nor changing in territorial debates, just as it has not been or immobile in the face of economic reality, and as it has not been, nor will it be at the edge of the difficulties that women and men in our country are experiencing. We don't have to imitate or envy or contemplate with complex what happens elsewhere, because the example is here. We can look with pride at what they have done and done every day the Greeks and the Greeks; with pride, as in the worst moments Galicia has believed a huge capacity for overcoming; with pride, as the Greeks and the Greeks support each other; with pride, as the Galician families have strived to bring their homes forward; with pride, as we feel deep Greek without falling into the exclusions of other identities or in discrimination to those who feel different; with pride, as we put before the common feeling and the coexistence that differs from us, which also makes us unique or the ideology of each other; with pride, as if we could be as historical nationality as any other and open to each other. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the Greeks and the Greeks; ladies and gentlemen, look at Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. The session is suspended until 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u5	Good afternoon. We resumed the meeting with the parliamentary groups. We started with the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. For that you have the floor to speak to your spokesperson, Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Feijóo, your speech this morning, the truth is, it makes any Democrat out of sight of all the red alarms. He made a self-congratulating speech, a speech that repeats the promises of always, the same recipes, the same promises that we've heard here for eight years, and a heartless speech, far from difficulties, which he can believe to be many, who are part of the day by day of thousands of Greeks. The only novelty that has presented us was the follow-up to that extreme right and that has actually been installed in a unique way that closes every door to dialogue at a crucial moment when the solution can only come for democracy. This 78 regime crisis affects us all, and it's really a crucial moment that opens up an opportunity to build a better country and not to repeat the mistakes of the past. And I am convinced that, on this crossroads, the only way out is democracy, democracy in its genuine sense: the people's government, the people's and the people's. Democracy is that citizenship can make key decisions in seeking that common good. Democracy is voting — of course it is — but not just once every four years so that we can then rule as theirs fulfilling all that they have promised, but democracy is also that people can make decisions directly on those issues that will affect our lives as well as the lives of our children and the lives of our children's children. What's not democratic is that Rajoy's government doesn't dialogue, don't listen, its only answer is state violence. That, Mr Feijóo, is indeed a democratic disgrace! All of us could see those images, those shameful videos that went through the world, looking at how they beat people because they wanted to vote. From here all our solidarity with the Catalan people, who are teaching a lesson in civics, pacifism and the defense of democracy. [[Applause]] I announce to you, Mr Feijóo, that we want this Parliament to condemn violence, demand dialogue and demand the right of people and people to decide, because it is also part of fundamental freedoms. He told us, Mr. Feijóo, that it hurts Catalonia. Gallica hurts us, and it hurts us to see a president who does not exercise as such, who uses this debate to rival the press of the Madrid cave in the attack on Catalonia. This is a moment, Mr. Feijóo, to get high-minded and practice politics with capitals. Rajoy's been showing us that he's not up to it and that he's irresponsible. You joined that club today. And I think it's important that we make a correct reading of the process we're living in right now. The cause of this institutional crisis, this regime crisis, is not the referendum. The referendum is a symptom of fatigue in the face of lack of democracy, a symptom of fatigue in the face of centralism and theft of rights. For all these years, even if you don't want to recognize it, the Achilles heel of Spanish democracy is your inability to recognize that there is no such dream in which it has been for eighty years in Spain, one, great and free, but that, in fact, there are nations, nations such as Galicia, the Basque, the Catalan, and that coexistence must be on an equal footing, with regard to the existence of these peoples and not with taxes and not denying reality. [[Applause]] And, Mr. Feijóo, I'm sorry I didn't have to give you the reason in the account you tried to build here today this morning. The truth is that neither you nor the People's Party represent moderation and harmony; you are an extreme right-wing government. And I'm telling you, we don't accept democracy lessons from the People's Party. We do not accept lessons of democracy from a party of corruption, charged with illegal funding, Rajoy's party and the nine hundred accused. [[Applause]] You boast that they are very strong in the fight against corruption. We've seen it, Mr. Feijóo, what they've done with the discos of the Bárcenas. Their contrition is in how they destroy evidence so you can't know what they've really done and what they've actually stolen. [[Applause]] Even though I also have to tell you that, indeed, corruption is not an exclusive thing of the People's Party, that there is corruption in this regime that affects businessmen, bankers, the Royal House and justice itself. I am, Mr. Feijóo, you who constitute a problem for coexistence. And they broke it when they agreed with the PSOE, in the afternoon of August, the reform of the Constitution to put the interests of the bank above the lives of people. They change the Constitution — which is untouchable — and, as they are so democrats, Democrats of all life, they don't make a referendum, it won't be that people don't give them reason. [[Applause]] You are the ones who imposed a labour reform that is creating many difficulties for the Greeks and the Greeks, because you know we have the lowest wages in the state. And the problem with the Greeks and the Greeks is not having someone to guide them, which is what you proposed today as a solution to unemployment. Not only did you impose a crippling labour reform, but also a mordaza law so that we can't even protest in the streets. That law, which you don't see, doesn't listen, when, for example, you do apologize to the crimes of the dictatorship, but which, however, condemns two years of imprisonment a person for putting on a tweet. You're also the fiscal amnesty party. And it was made to be such a scandal, that even your Constitutional Court had to declare it illegal. And you're the ones who threaten coexistence, putting in place a plan for the extermination of the Greek language, with an illegal decree, a decree that only wants our language to continue to lose more and more speakers. And you are also the party of the state bellies, setting up a political police, as in franchiseism, to produce false reports and defame the opposition and Catalan politicians. "This tunes it to you by the Prosecutor's Office," remember? That minister is still a member of the People's Party. And you're the ones who threaten coexistence, with a political decentralization that derailed the Statute, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo. The Galician Statute today is a wet role, because its Government has first left it undeveloped, it was small and they have not developed it, and even now in the process of re-centralisation which has experienced this crisis, none of the things said in that Statute can be developed. Mr. Feijóo, with all honesty, seeing what the history of his party is, and without entering these dangerous friendships, into the photo albums, I think you can't come here to present yourself as the savior of Galicia and the admiral of democracy, because that's a spook worthy of the Inclan Valley. Look, our problem is not that the people of Catalonia want to decide their future, our problem is Galician dependence. Our problem is a president who is committed to keeping a Galician dependent on centralism. [[Applause]] You're saying if Catalonia takes the path of independence, we're gonna ruin it, right?; It is basically the last message you pray with. But the truth is, Mr. Feijóo, the Greeks and the Greeks where we pay our taxes is in Madrid. It's Madrid that's getting a huge share of the taxes we've been paying in this country. Whoever passed the Labour Reform Act, the Law bites and illegal amnesties is his government. It's your government that gives us the highest rates, the lowest wages and the delays and delays in our country's infrastructures. And it was his very dear central government that started with the cuts in the issues that are important to people's lives; yes, in medicine, in pensions, in public school and in dependence. And all because the bank had to be saved. And while this is Galician reality, you're trying to convince us that our problem is Catalonia. No, Mr. Feijóo, our problem is you, our problem is centralism, our problem is an exhausted and outdated regime. The great challenge we have as a country is to break precisely with dependence, trust our own forces and empower Galicia. [[Applause]] And the worrying thing is that you've spent eight years olympically exercising as president of Galicia and preferring to be a faithful relic of Rajoy. And you have to explain to us — whether you want or if you can — why this leave of functions. If you don't care about any of your beloved leader, Mr. Rajoy, it's up to you. But what is unforgivable, what you will never forgive is that you allow this country to be despised and discriminated against in this way. And I'm telling you that what I already note is that you tell us that what we can expect by 2020 is reflected in this year's mirror. Look, let me show you what you've been through this year. His absolute majority: "Investment in Galicia is down by one billion, something unpublished since 2003," "Fomento delays the arrival of AVE to Galicia", "Fomento refuses to transfer to AP-9." [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo teaches several press clippings to her lordships.]] But this is not what happens everywhere: "To PNV 3,380 million for high speed," "From the Signa compromises itself with the Mediterranean corridor." Or we even see De Guindos as offering him 2,000 million euros more in Catalonia. What about Galicia, Mr. Feijóo? Cuts. This is the mirror you have to look at. This is not the image of an ideal country, it's not the image of a winner, it's the image of someone who makes us lose, and lose, and lose. But allow me to keep talking about that portrait, that picture that's real, that's the one you leave in the mirror. He started as president promising us a day center in every county; we're still waiting. We've been promised a fund for growth, investments in structural reforms in milk and forestry prioritising innovation; we're still waiting. Pemex was going to settle on the edge of the Langosteira and we were going to renew the entire fleet of the Mexican oil tanker; we're still waiting. I was going to promote forest management, reduce fires and expand the territorial base of farms; we're still waiting. You promised the Board would finance the AVE to Lugo; we're still waiting. You said there would be new ways for auxiliary industries; we're still waiting, Mr. Feijóo. We've been promised the greatest wind competition in history; we're still waiting for it. More work and better quality; we're still waiting. Zero lists in child schools; we're still waiting. Blah, blah, blah... we can go on like this, Mr. Feijóo, because you practice blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. He comes with the same promises, with the same things over and over again. [[Applause]] Indeed, the image of your Government is the image of your failure. [[Murmurs.]] So you won't be apologizing to the popular bench, I'm telling you, it's not all going to be critical. I want to thank you for the honest attack you had this Sunday, where we read a headline you were obsessed with for everything you didn't do. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, the obsession must be great, Mr. Feijóo, it must be very big. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] The reality of the Greeks and the Greeks is not that comfort zone you have in Monte Pio. What we see are thousands of families who don't have a place in children's schools. Look, only in Vigo there are 3,000 people waiting on waiting lists in children's schools. The Finnish boxes — your big bet for demographic recovery — are the fact that, Mr. Feijóo, we are getting worse and worse, you know? Because this isn't about Finnish cash, it's about Finnish wages, of course. And that's not Galician reality. [[Applause]] The reality is, you haven't made the greatest wind competition in history, you've made the greatest wind paroon in history. His sectarianism and his interest in giving the wind of Galicia to the big companies in that sector because he left us with an eye on this country. I was going to propose that we now be at this new stage in which there is a new doctrine of the Court of Auditors. Maybe it would be nice if you volunteered to offer yourself that the cost of your sectarianism for nullifying a legal wind competition would not be paid by the Greeks and the Greeks. Of course, you pay off your pocket those 3 million euros. It's the new doctrine of the Court of Auditors. [[Applause]] Of course, all the Greeks and we're going to have to pay not only those 3 million euros, we're paying a lot more, because we've lost 8,000 jobs, we've lost 1,800 million euros in investments in our country at a time of economic crisis. And you've prevented key projects from being launched for this country as a group of Greek milk. You, Mr. Feijóo, are responsible for paralyzing the development of wind energy, of renewables in our country, who knows that it is key to being able to fight climate change. Mr. President, can you really keep your word without getting colorful that we're creating better quality jobs? Really, can you tell some of the journalists who are currently covering this full-time that they sign up to twenty-two contracts in a month for a better child's salary than there's a high-quality job? Can you tell an industrial engineer who recently graduated and studied hard that works for 900 euros — why are the wages being offered to him — that there are high-quality jobs? Can you stand in front of some of the 200,000 families who saw how their children had to leave in the face of lack of opportunity? Can you stand in front of these families and tell them to look into the eyes of quality employment? Can you come and visit my neighbours in Sarria and tell them that this is the legislation of the countryside? Do you know what they'd tell you if you dared to do that? They'd say this is the rule of abandonment. Our noodles charge the lowest price of milk throughout the state, the eucalyptus continues to advance unstoppablely. Don't I know if you think tourists are coming here with them now? We witness the passivity and ineptitude of his Government to the agony of a sector that must be alive, providing food sovereignty, demographic stability and humanized attention to our territory. In our sea, unwashed laughs, with a significant loss of jobs and many unknowns about how Brexit will affect our fishing. You, Mr. Feijóo, didn't make any progress in the productive sectors, but you're not the champion of innovation either. Look, he told us about aeronautics, he made all kinds of announcements about innovation, but the truth is, behind all that blah, blah, blah, you know what's going on? That Galicia is in the queue of innovation, we are in the queue of innovation. And with you as president in recent years, half of the technologically innovative companies have disappeared. It looks at the EU regional competitiveness index. We went from 45 in 2010 down seven points; we didn't increase, we went down, Mr. Feijóo. A fallback that is explained in a very important part by the cuts in innovation. And we're not telling him since the BNG, I'm telling the European Union. But the best evidence of its lack of economic project is in the so-called Business Implementation Promotion Act, which, in fact, is a law for the promotion of depredation. A cowardly, improvised law, without dialogue, more peculiar to a banana republic than a modern country. With this law, projects such as Corcoesto mine would have gone ahead, this law promotes the uncontrollability of the eucalyptus, this law deprotects the rights of private owners and mountain communities for the benefit of large companies. We will always defend that this country needs to industrialize, develop and innovate, but this, of course, is not the model. The model is not to develop Galicia by destroying the territory and cultural heritage. You're importing Guinea's model when you could've bet on imitating Norway or Denmark. [[Applause]] There are, Mr Feijóo, other ways you do not want to explore: no single measure to encourage the closure of productive cycles in Galicia; no real measure — even if I say so in rhetoric — to reverse the relocation so important that it is taking place in Portugal; it does not include specific actions to create jobs with decent wages; nor does it involve any action to bet on innovation. You don't have a country project, and all you do is give Galicia the balance price to multinationals. The weather, Mr. Feijóo, will tell us which turn door you're going to use. [[Applause]] But let's talk about public services now. In this matter, you said in the investment debate — and in a way, you said it again today in the morning — you made a very surprising statement. The theory is that cuts improve the provision of public services. I think you're currently thinking from Sweden about handing you a Nobel Prize for this great contribution that you just made to the economy. But do you know the only thing that's got better in these years? The benefits of companies, as you're privatizing some of the health, education and social services. Let us speak, Mr. Feijóo, of that reality that you don't know or that you want to hide. Let's start with the dependency. There are currently 17,000 dependents who have the right to that allowance and who are waiting for the state to comply with what the law says, because by law they have the right. You today — like in your investment — have already told them that you will not take care of them all, that you will not meet those 17,000 dependents who have that right and those you do not meet. But you know what? There's a way to fix this situation, because it's a fund problem, it's a resource problem for the dependency. The state owes this country 150 million euros in dependence. Will you claim it, will you be brave for once and defend Galician interests and not defend Mr. Montoro's interests? Be brave, be militant of Galicia for once! In teaching, you stopped investing 400 million in universities. He talks to us about computers, but he cut out 1,500 teachers, and he shut down — you see, Mr Feijóo! — a hundred public schools, while increasing schools and private resources. That's your model. And I'm sorry you're still funding those Opus Dei centers that segregate children and girls by their sex. Because what you're doing with the resources of all the Greeks and all the Greeks is financing elitism, gender inequality, and with it is fueling violence against women. [[Applause]] And let's also talk, Mr Feijóo, about health. Here's the fact that you're fully surrendering yourself and working hard to turn people's health into a business. Whenever you talk to us about health, you basically tell us about cement and statistics, you always forget how important people are. And people in this health system are suffering in a very clear way the cuts that have set in motion their government. You talk about more hospitals, but what we have is less installed beds than when you got to Galician Union. And the truth is, no one in this country can believe that the waiting lists have gone down, because I don't know anyone who's seen, of course, how they've improved in that situation. Look, we could deal with a lot of cases, I'll bring one here in case you find it interesting. Jesus Mary, she has a lot of pain in the spine... you don't care; at last, we know what her sensitivity is. [[Murmurs.]] Your doctor asks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u8	Your doctor asked for a magnetic resonance in September 2016. They'll give him an appointment a year later, and that's right, giving him to the private. And now in September we give you an appointment to see the results of that resonance in October 2018! Mr. Feijóo, I invite you to go with Jose Maria and explain to her that the average waiting time in this country is thirty-eight days. I don't know if you'll be able to believe it. [[Applause]] But this is not a case, eh! we have a lot of them. I could be here for the eleven minutes that I'm left with by teaching him quotes like these real people, not their statistics, which in March 2017 are giving them dates for next year, for February 2018, and they're thousands and thousands of cases, not one or two or three or anecdotes. This is the reality of your waiting lists. But you also now have a very important sector of our country concerned about what it's still doing with health. It's got people in the streets who don't want to get rid of the sanitary areas of Salnes, Valdeorras, the Navy and Monforte. They don't want it because behind that suppression of these health areas there's no improvement, there's a model that's actually failed, and I think the logic would be that you'd listen and that you'd withdraw that regression reform from Galicia's Health Act. Even though, if I'm honest with you, I have a lot of doubts that you're going to want to withdraw this law. And maybe I think there are some portraits on this ground that can explain why you don't want or can't remove this law. Allow me, if you don't mind, to show you a picture. It's not a picture of boats, don't worry. Mr. Feijóo, don't I know if you recognize yourself in this picture? [[Applause]] I don't know if you can tell us who the people are with you in this picture, what do they do? [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo teaches a photograph to the government's presidential bench.]] I think it's an important question. Well, I'm going to tell you because I can see that you're not interested in talking about this picture because you've hidden this picture. He hid it... yes, yes, he hid this picture and even violated the law to hide this picture, because he failed to comply with the Transparency Act, which obliges him to publish his actions and where you attend as president of the Galician Council. [[Mr. Pontón Mondelo teaches the whole House a photograph.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you know why you did it? Because you didn't want people to know that you were the honored guest of the private health lobby. What merits have you done to have this distinction: guest of honour of private health? [[Applause]] Yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] Perhaps the answer could be in the decree just passed by the board of directors, which will result in 100 million euros from public health to private? Maybe that's the answer to this picture. It is imperative, Mr. Feijóo, to clarify to us why he hides his meetings with the wolves of private health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u9	Quiet, please. Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u10	Well, let's talk about something... [[Murmurs.]] I believe that the citizens of this country deserve that representatives can speak freely, without the insults we have behind us. Anyway. [[Applause]] We're talking about equality policies. You started as President of the Envalented Board saying that it would end with wage inequality, nothing more and nothing less. And now you're the champion of non-compliance with equality laws. You've already shown us that equality policies for you are an appendix, a decorative element, aren't you, like a florist you put on a table. And I want to tell you that to me it seems outrageous to me that the frivolity with which you act on this subject. Look, today he announced to us that he was going to make a co-responsibility plan, which was the first one there was -- he said -- at Junta. There's already been a co-responsibility plan during the two-party government. By the way, a plan that you failed and dropped. But do you know what is the result of your commitment to co-responsibility? Well, we have to measure it in the budgets. Do you know what is after this announcement of the co-responsibility plan the degree of execution of the Programme to support the reconciliation of working life? 3.2%. [[Applause]] And look, you're in gender-based violence... I wish I could talk. [[Murmurs.]] You in gender-based violence referred to that early this year we will reach an agreement on gender-based violence. And indeed, our group has brought a proposal to this Parliament that there should be a great Greek pact against gender-based violence because we believe it is one of the main problems this society has. And I this January 25th can tell you that I was happy about this Parliament because I thought we were doing something important. And today, you know what I see? That on October 4, 2017, the result is disappointing because you're not doing what we're doing in that agreement, and what you're doing is actually cutting off services that women have right now. And there's no increase in resources, and there's no greater attention on the part of the Galician Union. Look: it comes to this debate and it turns out that in the programme where resources are intended to help victims of gender-based violence, according to the official data that your Government sends us to this Parliament, it only executed three out of ten euros. Mr. Feijóo, your policy of combating gender-based violence is a shame because your figures are a shame. [[Applause]] We don't have much time left. I would like to, Mr. Feijóo, to explain to us other breaches that you have of the laws. Why does this country's public media law violate, and why has democracy in this Parliament been kidnapped in one part? We have a case investigation commission that has been blocked since its constitution, only worked for a month and a half summer. You've got a lot to hide in the crates in order to keep this commission closed in reality and we can't dilute or tell the Greeks who passed by, who was responsible for the looting of our boxes. But you've also been blocking another commission for four years, which is an important commission: the investigation commission on the crash in England. His party last week lost a real chance of gold to recover some dignity by supporting the commission of investigation that was set up in Congress. I'm sorry your party had voted no. But the truth is, then you made statements to me that at least caught my attention, because you volunteered to go to the Congress of Deputies. And I say, if you think you have something to say about the Angelis accident, if Galicia has something to say about the Angelis accident, why don't we set up this investigation commission, which are also asking the victims? Because of course we have a lot to say. [[Applause]] Be brave, Mr. Feijóo! As you can deduce, since the Block we have not evaluated the performance of its Government and we have seen the failure of the Feijóo model. You have the responsibility of having made the longest and most severe crisis, increased poverty and inequality, multiplied by four public debt and privatized important elements of our welfare system. It is also his responsibility to be the president who has most attacked our self-esteem, our language, our culture, ultimately, which unites us as Greeks and as Greeks. But, indeed, the world does not turn over its head. And there is at this moment a deeper debate that has to do with this 78 regime, with that institutional architecture that has collapsed during the transition years. And I think this is an important debate and I think that this issue in our country's general policy debate must also deserve the attention of the Greek political forces. And I believe that we must take stock of what the Statute and the Constitution have meant, and that we must indeed do so in relative terms, seeing as it has been to the Greeks and to the Greeks in this situation. And I on this subject think it's important that we look at some things: Today we live and work in Galicia less people than in 1981 when the Statute was voted. Since the 1990s, ladies and gentlemen, half a million people have emigrated from Galicia; it's like the cities of Vigo and Coruña have disappeared. An important part of the territory is unpopulated. And we have a very serious problem with the loss of speakers in our language. In these decades, despite what you've told us today, the truth is that Galicia does not converge. I think there are things that we as Greeks and Greeks have to think about. At the beginning of the 1980s we were 6% of the state's gross domestic product and today we are not 5.2%. In 1985, 10% of all state workers were Germans and today we are less than 6%. I think it's obvious that beyond bad governments, that there have been them, the Constitution and the Statute have not been able to solve our structural problems. And — as I have told you — the Statute, which has always been a small and small instrument for our country's needs, the truth is that it is now dynamized by the recentralizing process. We're at a time of cycle change, they like you or not, and the truth is, we think we have to think about the big and ambitious country. Each town has to look for its own road map...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u11	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u12	...and walk your own way, but the important thing is to walk and not to retreat. That's why I announce that I will propose to all the groups that we put in place a presentation to overcome the current constitutional and statutory framework, and that with dialogue and debate we have Galicia a new state of nation that will allow us to decide on the economy, finance, social rights, our highways, airports and ports. And in this presentation since the Galician Nationalist Block, also with all normality and nature, we're going to defend our proposals. Proposals like these democratic bases that we have presented weeks ago and with which we want to build a Galician of progress, a Galician of equality, a Galician that leaves behind archaeism as the monarchy and which blinds civic rights and freedoms through a letter of social rights. An open, honest proposal so that in this House we can debate how we will build Galicia for the future. But I also believe that in this debate it is very important to know what are the proposals the President of the Government has, because in the big debates, Mr Feijóo, I see you absent, undisturbed, without really being able to be up to the moment we are living. You've been missing a year in the financing model debate. Today he tells us that our model of financing with whom he will deal is with Madrid and with Castile and León. Anyway, I think it was a lot better than we agreed to in Galicia first, because we don't know your proposals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u14	Secondly, the model on cycle change, the exhaustion of this regime, what you call "territorial debate", which is basically what is happening in everything we are debating and in everything that is happening right now in the state. Look, Catalonia is moving towards a constituent process, it's obvious. Euskadi, your president, Mr Urkullu, said he was going to complain in that debate about the reform that Euskadi is recognized as a nation in a confederal state. In the block we have our proposal, which, if you want, I can transfer it to you today. And in recent weeks others have also talked about this issue; even the state-level leader of the Socialist Party has said something that is an advance in democratic terms, and that he recognizes that Galicia, Basque Country and Catalonia are nations. But right now the important thing is to know that Alberto Núñez Feijóo defends. In this debate, when this is considered in these terms, did you do it that you will defend?, Galician or Galician regionality?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u15	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u16	I think it's an important question, Mr. Feijóo, where you have to get wet, because this issue knows it's going to be a key to our future. Of course, — Mr President — a people to move forward needs hope, self-confidence and ability to make decisions on those vital aspects. You've never been able to stand up to this challenge. And I am convinced that the Greeks and the Greeks deserve something better than their government. It is times to cultivate hope, unity in defense of Galicia's interests and trust in our own capabilities and potential. That hope was the driving force behind the most important changes our country has experienced in the past few centuries; that hope that was born from the Generation We, the Germans of Speech, the Nationalist Assembly of Lugo or the Galician Party, and that then other organizations that we continue to defend the idea of Galicia as a viable project.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u18	It's over, Mr. President. I am part of a generation to which we are told that we have no right to decide anything. I couldn't vote either the Constitution or the Statute, and it's not fair that, just like me and most of us today live and work in Galicia, if I told you that this is a closed reality that we have no right to question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u20	I don't give up, I don't agree with what's going on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u21	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u22	And finally, if I may, Mr. President, with the words of a suffrageist who taught us that in order to win rights, we must indeed fight for them; Emmeline Pankhurst, a woman who was, of course, persecuted for defending the right to vote. "Women," I said, "we wake up late, but, once decided, nothing on earth and nothing in heaven will cause women to yield...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u24	...it's impossible." Nor will we give in to the defence of Galicia, equality, democracy and freedom.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u26	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, guests. Cataluña hurts me, but also, and above all, Galicia hurts me. And we have to talk about her. It's been a year since his election victory. It was, in our opinion, a lost year; I repeat, a lost year, in terms of economic modernization, social inclusion or affirmation of our autonomy, because it was a year without project, a year full of advertising and propaganda. The decade of crisis has aggravated the four internal fractures that threaten the cohesion of our society: the social divide, between those integrated and those excluded, especially because of unemployment; the generational fracture; the gender fracture; and the internal territorial fracture. We are at a turning point in Spain's history and, therefore, Galicia's history; a turning point in economic, social and territorial terms. In this set, more than ever, we need a project, we need a roadmap that defines and mobilizes public resources and directs social energies. His government, in our opinion, lacks a project. They are still installed in the logic of the crisis, with only one objective: financial sustainability, which does not jeopardise their electoral support, combining allergy to the construction of top-level public services with tax populism that distributes tax gifts in a client-friendly manner without effects on employment and growth, increasing the social divide. He also lacks a project for Spain. The Greeks and the Greeks are interested in modern, democratic, plural, solidarity. I'll say it with Francesc de Carreras: "It's good company the rest of Spain." We're convinced autonomists. [[Applause]] But today the territorial distribution of power is in question, with an independent bet that weakens us as a whole and significantly harms Galicia in financial terms, but also political, faced with a neo-centralist bet that would want to concentrate all the power in which we commonly know as "Madrid", which is not a geographical concept but rather a social concept, a political, financial, business and media core, an elite that seeks to broaden its hegemony. And you are paralyzed, by your ambition to become part of that core in the future, by your party's orientation and by your leader's loss of favor in such a hierarchical organization as the People's Party; a blockade that prevents you from defending with roundness and determination the interests of Galicia, in budgets, in AVE, in the transfer of AP-9 and in other matters that I will tell you during this intervention. You don't have a Galician project in Spain. His only project for Spain is called Nuñez Feijóo. [[Applause]] The defense of democracy and constitutional order in Spain, of course. It is the foundation of our civic freedoms, the self-government of Galicia. But it's not enough. It takes a constructive dialogue to reform this frame, just as Mr. Rajoy has refused to do in the last five years, bringing us to the edge of the precipice. A reform that must have as its horizon a federal model, i.e. equalitarian, respectful of diversity, including our own; a project in which our differentiated personality can be fully expressed, sharing in solidarity the fates of a democratic, balanced and plural Spain. About a year ago, Mr. President, I was recriing myself for not taking stock after eight years of government in Galicia. And it summarizes mine: "demography, regression; economy, weak; social landscape, devastated and autonomous administration, weakened." And what happened last year? Galicia does not progress in population, goes badly in employment, does not rebuild basic social services, remains paralysed in the functioning of the Administration, always, of course, in relative terms, compared to the Spanish average. You live in the virtual reality that confuses with a well-greasy machine of advertising and propaganda, but you don't live in reality from day to day of the Greeks and the Greeks. Year after year it announces great advances and initiatives that have no further reflection on reality or statistics. He's an expert in taking part at all, selling delays and failures as new promises. Look, his government only passed this year a law, the Animal Welfare Act. It was a lost year to advance the inclusive modernization of Galicia. And don't tell me it's a question of resources, it's a question of project, of initiative and capacity, for example, in the construction of independent and plural public media. They refused to comply with the 2011 Act to elect the Director of the Company by a qualified majority of the Galician Parliament; to promote the Professional Statute; to create the Information Council; to develop the program contracts or to launch the Audiovisual Authority. It's not about resources, it's about political will. They prefer to maintain the iron control of propaganda mechanisms to comply with the law of 2011, for example, in combating corruption, opposing the protection of internal complainants, which we promote in this House, or in ensuring the cleaning of public contracts. [[Applause]] The People's Party's internal gangrene also reaches Galician Union. For the first time — for the first time! — there is a Member in this House, of his group, convicted of trafficking in influence a few days ago, and one cannot look elsewhere. Influence trafficking was with your government, Mr Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] What about democratic cleansing and transparency? Look, I have here the first campaign committee for the 2019 European and local elections in Ourense. Do you know who is responsible for the external vote on this committee? Mr. Rodríguez Miranda, who is rightly also the Secretary General of Emigration of his government. You have to stop him as Secretary General of Emigration if you want him not to confuse his work, his government's work, the election work of the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You haven't made any progress this year in gender regulation or in the non-discriminatory treatment of the LGTBI collective. It's good to talk about equality, but the relevant thing is to build it. They also lack a project in this field. The limited Equality Act of 2015 continues to develop undeveloped. The German Women's Employment Plan to combat excessive bias and temporality or the wage gap that affects women, neither. The equality plans in companies, which are mandatory for the autonomous administration and its various entities, are unpublished. The Galician Union Equality Plan ended in 2015 and has not yet been replaced. Your government's commitment to gender equality? None. Don't stay in rhetoric, Mr. Noñez Feijóo. Put decisions, resources and programs on top of the table. The State Covenant on Gender Violence has already been adopted in Congress. The question is to drive him quickly from paper to street or to homes, especially in Galicia, where we saw year after year attending a very insufficient economic allocation and actions without scope. Galicia has, as you well know, exclusive competences in educational or health matters. I propose, effectively and immediately, the promotion and implementation of prevention at all stages of education, the prevention of gender-based violence, machismo, the launching of sexual education and the fight for equality. And I also propose that the early prevention of this problem be initiated in the field of health. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, in demography, Galicia is still going less. Your project was the "Finnish Box." Did it work? I'll tell you no. Has the number of children who decide to have couples increased in the last year? Not at all. In the last year, the births continued to descend under the 19,000, in a continuous pendant. The number of deaths has continued to increase, at 31,473. Today the Tanatories are the main industry in many municipalities in Galicia. It is the president who has the sadst honour to have the most negative natural balance ever reached: 80,000 Greeks and Greeks less since 2009. The Conference of Presidents, which they so advertised, did not mean any progress. The Autonomic Observatory has just been set up, but it's all about finding the failure of its policies. They have to radically change it to achieve results, betting on quality employment for youth, for effective equality, for reconciliation and strengthening basic services. And now promise us, with some initiatives of limited scope, that will improve the results. Lack of project, few results. That's your last year balance. He forgot about the youth in his speech. There are fewer young people, less young than ever, 130,000 young people and girls less than there were in 2009, so youth unemployment is not scandalous and migration figures are not dramatic. But it has not started any specific program to avoid emigration or facilitate return. Their policies aggravate the generational fracture. And while refugees come to Europe and die thousands in the Mediterranean, in a heartless policy, refusing to welcome them to share their burdens with other European countries. Don't they say there are missing men and women in Galicia, that we have a first-level demographic crisis? Let's be humanists, be supportive and make an effort that saves lives and builds new opportunities. [[Applause]] And it continues to increase the territorial fracture. In the face of the banal discourse of rural legislation, we find the reality that health or school reorganization is fed in peripheral Galicia, that labor opportunities and wealth continue to focus around AP-9 and that if a firm and lasting policy does not prevent it we will attend in the coming years the agony of whole regions: wine, chestnuts or winter cereals affected by frost, and the dairy sector, which only perceives the recovery of prices throughout Europe. Transport reform has reduced displacement opportunities, but nothing has been said about the plan that needs to be developed in less than a year and a half. There's still no forest plan, and this year's Rural Road Improvement Plan is unpublished today for the municipalities. Lack of investment, lack of attention, lack of effective policies, and further propaganda. Your tax rebates, have they had any significant impact on action in the rural world? That's what he has to tell us. I'll tell him, no. And in the sea, in the face of their triumphalism, much more must be invested in security. We have the lower eyeloafs in the Noia creek, the toxins continue to be the greatest news, and the pending sanitation in Ribeira, Santiago, Poio, Sanxenxo, Foz, Noia and elsewhere, affecting the capacity of seafood production sensitively and lastingly. He didn't quote the municipalities in his speech either. Nothing to offer them. He has no generosity to allow the metropolitan areas to be built up, because they would lose power. Economic recovery, which is true, is driven by the growth of our partners, the fall of the euro, the price of oil or the low interest rates. But I don't know any analysis that connects this recovery to the decisions of the Galician Union in this area. It's hard not to grow, if they do it Spain and Europe too, because we're driven by these winds. But if this is an effect of what is happening in these areas, what do we want, economically, self-government institutions? Exports are good, yes, although they're too concentrated, but the role of external demand is excessive. We would walk better on both feet, but domestic demand is paved by labour reform, insufficient pensions, the lowest in Spain, the fall in wages and public consumption, which is still limited by the strategy of austerity. Note if it is not paradoxical: the municipalities cannot use their surplus to boost public investment in necessary infrastructures because Montoro does not allow it, and thus reduce the rate of growth now and the chances of growing in the future, and the Galician Union does the same when it avoids using all the debt capacity and when it reduces the levels of execution. They can invest and they can't, obsessed with the deficit. But compliance with the deficit is not a strategy, it's a restriction, and when there's no strategy, the only thing left is customerism. The Galician Union is thus dedicated to the short-term, medium- and long-term. Worse yet, the Galician Union has on this subject the fury of the neophyte, goes beyond the rules of adjustment. He gave up on the initial budget from 2017 to 60 million euros of expenditure, due to lack of ambition, because of lack of confidence in himself. With robust economic growth, public autonomic investment only takes off, and recovering public investment is necessary to meet necessary demands: in sanitation, in transport infrastructure, in public services. Again, lacks ambition, lacks a project for the future. Otherwise, they wouldn't have given up these 60 million euros that would allow them to do what they couldn't do. [[Applause]] Neither does private investment take off, suggesting low business confidence. The tax strategy is of fine rain: selective reductions, for specific sectors or activities, and renounces greater fiscal progress. Promise you lower now. We rejoice at the beneficiaries of the same. But is it going to increase growth in this way? Is it going to increase progress? Will social equality increase? Not at all. Do you have any sensible evaluation of the effects of tax reductions that you've done in recent years on these variables? Not at all. So, what there is is fiscal clientilism, which favours electoralist behavior, in the face of growth and equality. They lack an industrial policy worthy of this name. They don't have industrial projects. We haven't recovered the real level of production in 2008, and we're far away at levels of occupation. To increase the weight of industry in the composition of GDP in Galicia, we have to bet on generating quality jobs, expanding internationalisation to new businesses, new sectors and new countries and increasing productivity to be more competitive. Six years ago, the Industrial Policy Regulatory Law for Galicia was a complete failure. Have you activated investment and corporate capture? I'm telling you, no. A success of propaganda at the moment, a failure in effective results. And now, with the new law in process, more of the same. How does the People's Group change itself in a very significant way in the processing of this law? It deregulates and reduces public controls into activities with sharper environmental effects: mining, wind and forestry, but does not eliminate controls that do not bring value. The naval sector is full of false promises — remember Pemex. International recovery is working on this sector, and it's fine, but without solving structural problems. Navantia, despite the announcements, continues indefinitely as a yard, and has not just seen the light at the end of the tunnel. The entry of foreign, Mexican or Chinese capital, into various private shipyards in Greece, has not just produced positive effects on business organization, technological intensity or employment. The car also follows the cycle, but losing opportunities from the industry of components due to lack of industrial soil, and we still have and we will have in the next few years to continue talking about PLISAN and locating in Portugal, Morocco or Iran, wealth and jobs that to some extent — not completely, but to some extent — could be in Galicia. In energy policy we see the failure of the Rajoy reform, the paralysis of the wind sector: there are no new parks built, there are no industrial projects associated, but there are judicial convictions that cost the Greeks and the Greeks. We've lost weight in the wind industry, we're locating the production of components, and the new pox system, which is developing, hasn't yet offered conclusive results of its viability. [[Applause]] Neither has the comprehensive biomass boost plan passed since the propaganda phase, despite its territorial and economic-environmental dimension, nor has the Galician Union acted on the restrictions of electrical self-consumption. He didn't want to face the Rajoy Government in the mandatory application of territorial supplements. They said no to our proposals. And a dwindling Igape, from 345 million in 2010 to 98 in 2017, paralyzed by memories of the Campeon case arrests and without direction. Your policy despises the R+D+i. Public and private spending has dropped significantly in its years, and is below the Spanish average and continues to diverge. The budget cuts have broken a cumulative process that is essential to consolidate the progress made. Competitiveness problems worsen as a result. This was also a year more lost in this area. The EPA data, or the registered unemployment data, published yesterday, are an alarming call for attention to its labour policy and, by extension, economics. Employment grows less than in Spain and unemployment decreases more slowly. Dramatic!, but nothing different than what happened in the last eight years. Today there are working in Galicia 121,400 people less than in 2009 — 121,400!—. At the pace of the last year, Spain will take one to recover the level of employment before the crisis. We'll take between seven and eight. That's the big difference, that's your big responsibility. But Greek society cannot wait for that time, and the cost that comes for this society in many lands, including that of the instability of the pension system, is unbearable. His 2009 Galicia contract promised jobs for all. Will we have the 2009 job when we leave the Presidency of Galicia? It won't be possible. Are you going to create the 100,000 jobs promised for this legislation? Not at all. If Galicia acted as the Spanish average since she was president, we would have worked for all unemployed people over two years of age, or we could eliminate unemployment in young people between 25 and 34 years of age. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, it is essential to change his labour policy and his economic policy. In employment, Galicia goes significantly worse than the rest of Spain, and this is the measure of its failure on this land. It also occurs in youth, where we have lost 42% of youth employment since 2009, and the unemployment rate of youth is even higher than at that time. Nothing to assume and much to worry about. And while the Youth Guarantee Programme, as in general employment policy, is a failure. They launched a new program this year, and we already told them they were going to waste a precious time in bureaucracy; while our youth doesn't have, and they're going to have a very insufficient budget allocation. The 90 million euros should be annual, not for four years. The 10,000 boys who are committed to helping should be each year and not for four. They turn youth employment into a priority, they turn the public employment system into a Welsh agency, they pay due attention to training, and they do not stop convening, as they have done in these years, the corresponding programs. Allow me also a few words for the self-employed. They're expanding false autonomy, and self-employment, which is often more a necessity than an opportunity, just grows. Eighty percent of the new businesses so created do not exceed two years, which lasts the help. There's a very high rotation and enormous difficulties in consolidating it. The Congress of Deputies has just taken very significant steps forward, and we agree with that. But it is not enough, they also have to be supported since the Galician Union, facilitating the generational substitution with policies of training and support for young people, with policies of aid to finance, the elimination of administrative obstacles, the control of laxity, the promotion of generational relief and the second opportunity plans. Let me speak now for a few minutes of social policy. For many families economic recovery is not yet present, for many young people the future remains a chimera. The market produces more inequality and the public policies of the Galician Union are not up to it. Galicia is in the DEC index — rights, economics and coverage — in 2.6 developing social services, for a Spanish average of 4.5. It is the fourth autonomous community with the highest percentage adjustment in spending on social policies; a drop of 17% since 2009. They're qualifying with very poor social policies, an inadequate risk and unacceptable dependence. There are over 100,000 people in Galicia with severe material deprivation. Risga is only 15,000. In Galicia the average benefit is 400 euros, in the Basque Country in 665. An insufficient level in Galicia, an insufficient level of social inclusion in Galicia. But the Social Inclusion Act imposes and the regulation that should be ready in 2014 is not yet published, and this should eliminate bureaucratic obstacles in order to better reach those who need it. We have to strengthen our attention to dependency and persons with disabilities. Dependent increase in caretakers? Of course, it is the inevitable result of a progressive implementation calendar of this law. If it implants progressively, how will it not increase beneficiaries? Is this your great success? They pull the chests of failing, late, and the trail of a law against which they were opposed. [[Applause]] With their political decisions, the waiting lists worsened. Mr. Rajoy's cuts meant an underfunding of 35 million less every year since 2012, today over 150. And you pushed a slow management -- two years or more of waiting time -- and a low-generous management, forcing you to choose the most economical benefits. Majors with resources access private residences and seniors without resources or regardless of their heritage or weight on family members. A public funding square is still today, in Galicia, which has ruled for eight years, an impossible mission. And the promised new residential squares are insufficient, even if they do, we'll see! Galicia does not resist comparison with other autonomous communities, there is an intense demand accumulated for years of inaction of its government. You promised in 2012 2,500 residential public squares, but you didn't. Open the already built residences, unlock the conventions, push an ambitious program of building new residences, and from there it would surely be no longer an impossible mission. [[Applause]] The Greek education system is improving, but it's still far from pointer. We're not Finland, neither are we here. It's better, because it's the school capital of families, because the demographic crisis takes less children to classes and because youth unemployment discourages the abandonment of what they suspect, and that's good. Are you progressing in the policies of the Education Council? I wish I could say yes, but I've got that it's not too relevant. The Council is an accomplice to the permanent improvisation in access to the university of the bachelor's student, which unfortunately leads this year along the same path as the previous one, but they refused all the initiatives that we presented to eliminate this improvisation. Multilingualism is again a great advertising strategy, without too many evaluable results. After so many ads, did it improve competition in English, in foreign languages of our student? You haven't done a single evaluation to find out what the results are. With your policies, we're on our way not to improve in English enough and clear the way to the Greek, Mr. Feijóo. The Dual Vocational Training has a residual presence, with 18 training cycles offered only for this course, in which, by the way, there are vacancies in all. Not to mention the offer of vocational training, which they also rejected our proposal to adapt it to the productive fabric. High youth unemployment rightly indicates its failure in terms of results, which is what matters. It is also a failure to introduce digital books both in the response of the centers and in the implementation of the Edixgal program with students who will not be able to have the necessary materials until Christmas. They introduced the educational concerts for six years at stages where it was not mandatory to arrange beyond four, with the only purpose of shielding the concerts, even in the centers that segregate by sex. They practice the absence of dialogue with the educational community and make an increasingly unconventional propaganda, such as the recent announcement of completion of works of improvement, which are not even initiated. University scholarships of excellence — did you promise it in the morning? We don't want prize bags. We want scholarships that cater to students with less resources and that buy to increase equal opportunities, to expand university education and not exclude anyone. In health we have a high-level system thanks to professionals, but it's deteriorating because of their management. And we don't resist comparative analysis. The health system of Galicia is the third worst valued by citizenship within the health systems of all autonomous communities in Spain. The consequences of a decade of adjustment are dramatic, especially for staff paintings. The most critical evaluation and fundamental problems are in hospital care. Real waiting lists increase. The derivation of patients to private is normal. The dance of entries and entries on the lists is an advertising-oriented management, but which complicates the life of the citizenry. And this applies to priority patients or those who are not. And they haven't done hemodynamics yet in Lugo and Ourense. Obviously, more personnel are needed, lost by zero or low rates of replacement, and there is a need to combat the high precariousness and high temporality of health care personnel, which affects the quality of care. Budgeted splits hide investment in unstable and temporary staff. The failure to comply with the waiting lists enables, within the legal framework approved by you, to divert to the concerted 208 million euros in 2015 — according to the Board of Auditors — leaving the Povisa side. There are no solutions, and the waiting lists problem shows no improvement. But the deterioration of public health is happiness for the private. Staff deficits are also affecting primary care with delays and waiting lists. They're missing pediatricians and it won't be easy to pick them up. In Carballo, 1 pediatrician for 1,600 children, as you know. Delays in the construction of new health centres or existing arrangements have led to deterioration. The 2008 Health Act Reform Preliminary draft shows inadequate planning. They lose services in the comarcal hospitals, they close the health services of the citizenry. Peripheral hospitals and associated primary care agencies lose decision-making capacity. The intense social mobilization indicates the rejection of this recentralizing concept of health services. Remove the project and let's sit down and talk. [[Applause]] Mr. Núñez Feijóo, you don't have any plans for Galicia in Spain either. After a year of legislation we already know that you are not in a position to stand up for Galicia's interests in the face of Mr. Rajoy's recentralizing policies. He didn't fight against the cuts in the state's general budgets for 2017. We lost 440 million euros in investments, after the friendly government has stopped executing 2,200 million since 2012. What did he do to prevent it? Nothing. He didn't fight the delays in the AVE. Since 2012 we have accumulated four years of delay. We won't be able to make it from Atlantic Galicia to Madrid at 2h 35' until at least 2022. What about Intermodal Stations, specifically Ourense Stations? What about the Taboadela-Ourense plot? Nothing's planned. And don't tell me there's no money; if there were them for the pact with the PNV, which he didn't oppose; in addition to the commitment of the connection of the port of Bilbao to the European corridor. What did you do to get an equal deal for Galicia? What did you do to connect Plisán to the port of Vigo and the Monforte-Forte Bath Line? Nothing. And finally, the highways, all of them paralyzed or with very considerable delays. The great momentum of Galician infrastructure was made by the last socialist governments; since that, cuts, excuses and delays. Let us call on the other groups to a special committee of this Parliament which sets out actions, deadlines and budgets for the infrastructures for Galicia, setting a two-month date for completion of the work. We have a common position to defend in front of the Rajoy Government. Finally, what did you do to lift the government veto to the transfer of AP-9? Nothing. We passed the second bill here in Galicia, also with his vote and the Government of his party partner, Mr. Rajoy, vetoed it. A contempt for the Galician Parliament! But you have to choose whether to confront Mr. Rajoy or appear to be an accomplice. And you're proposing passivity. We told him we can do more, we can fight him, but we give him one last chance to rectify it. Let us call on the Joint Transfer Commission and allow there to be a discussion there to convince them. We must urgently address the reform of the territorial model. They overflow the waters in Catalonia. Mr. Rajoy's government opted for tancredism and enforcement at the beatings of the law. We are not, fortunately, in 1934, there was no noise of sand or violence on the horizon, but then there was, as there is today, a persistent popular mobilization in Catalonia for independence. It's the time of politics, it's not the time of silence or the police acting against people. It is the time of the transactional dialogue. [[Applause]] And at this time, how do we advance Galicia's interests and position? [[Applause]] Your project failure is also loud at this point. In the field of self-financing, it was this group, with two initiatives, which allowed us to mark a common position in this Parliament. There are three basic positions for the reform of the territorial model: a position of rupture, either through independence or sovereignism — which is not our bet and which we believe severely harms Galicia -- a position of autonomous regression, which considers the current model inefficient and wasteful; and a way of transit to Spain's breakdown. It's a mistake to go back. We bet on the modernization of the autonomic model in the federal sense. I know you're always a conservative force; it took you a while from the criticism of Title VIII to defend it. And today they need to move from the mere defense to accept an open discussion about the necessary changes. Because the 1978 Spanish Constitution has no instructions to make this model work because the momentum of transfers is exhausted, because there are new realities, because there are dysfunctions to fix and realities to accept. That's why we need to open ourselves to constitutional reform and, in Galicia, to statutory reform. Neither rupture nor retreat. Politics, reform and dialogue, within the framework of constitutional reform, in the Congress of Deputies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u27	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u28	...to vote in legal referendum all and all in Galicia, Catalonia and the rest of Spain. It's not enough with the law. We need agreements. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And in this area of transactional dialogue, actors can't only be Catalonia and the General Administration of the State, Galicia has to be present because there are risks to conjure up and opportunities to take advantage of. That is why I ask them to open in the German Parliament the Statute Reform Commission in order to get some guidance bases, to talk about the symbolic, to talk about competences, to talk about funding, to talk about what we are interested in with regard to the reform that needs to take place in the whole of Spain. I'm done, Mr. President. Mr Feijóo, we socialists believe that Galician citizenship needs other policies today. It needs a project focused on sustainable economic growth, on the creation of stable and quality employment, with an ambitious economic policy and an industrial policy worthy of that name, with a reduction in social inequalities to rebuild basic services, to give impetus to transparency, to the quality of the public media, which has a determined fight against gender and territorial inequalities; a policy that allows us to integrate youth into the future we have to share among all; a project that defends our interests against the closure of Mr. Rajoy's Government, which fits Galicia in plural and solidarity to make it stronger and more autonomous, which contributes to reforming the territorial model, from our vision and from our interests, from dialogue, so that we can all win together in the future. We don't waste any more time, as we've been wasting our time this past year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u29	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u30	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, friends and friends of the public, citizenship of Galicia. Mr. Nunez, you're a frivolous man. To come to this House talking about coupism is an absolute irresponsibility. When there's a coup d'état, Mrs. Prado, the military kidnapped the polls and demoralized democracy, numbed the citizens and numbed the poles. When there is a coup d'état, the military kills the civilian population, defenseless and unarmed. When there is a coup d'état, Mr. Feijóo, bullets cross people's consciences and heads, as they did with Alexandre Bóveda. [[Applause]] The last time in Galicia there was a coup d'état, the cunettes were filled with corpses, which have not yet been dug up. Be strict, at least once in your life. Respect the memory of the victims of the last coup d'état. In serious moments, responsible politicians call for calm and irresponsible fire, as you did in this House. [[Applause]] This morning we were in this House of Political Forces to call for dialogue to solve a political problem. As a Democrat, I have no other formula to solve problems other than dialogue. Do you have another solution? Maybe you have another idea. Perhaps this morning, speaking of coupism, he betrayed the subconscious. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps Members and guests think there is little show in the debates in the state of the nation. Maybe the spectators are left with that word exchange picture and don't repair the unaccustomed invention of the president of the board when he introduces himself here as the champion of all the bonanzas. It must be said that, with imagination, Nuñez Feijóo is doing well, he is doing quite well, and the rest cannot go any worse. But it's a cruel imagination. It's cruel because, in his pursuit of concealing the work he doesn't do, he leaves much of the Greeks abandoned. This is the debate on the state of the nation. It's about monitoring the government's action. It's about asking for the bills that the president offers and not being like the bills of milk, the accounts of those who are used to not counting on people when they rule. But don't be tense, you don't have to talk about boats or walks in the river. You share guilt. Come here and share guilt with a lot of singleness, but never admit it. You accuse with your authoritarian finger and qualify people according to their papers put counsellors and say we are bad or good people or we are separatists, without realizing that the most separatist separatist separatist of all separatists is you, because you have been separating the Greeks from the standard of living they deserve for nine years; you separate the Welsh from health, separate the Welsh from work, separate the Welsh from living better, separate the Welsh from the buses and trains, separate them from the highways and still separate the children from the schools — with public money, by the way. [[Applause]] Separationism. If you still don't know what I'm telling you, your advisors will write you a replica of anything that doesn't have to do with Galicia, but quote the country's name. One more clue: separatism can also be a president who lives more and more apart from reality, a reality that the Greeks and the Greeks suffer and that you are unable to solve. We should talk here better about communication, because you seem to be permanently out of coverage. He should change company because his fare is immediately out of data; he doesn't even respond to that important part of the citizenship he voted for him a year ago. Charge the battery and tell them where you've been all this year and that you've earned that confidence from the absolute majority, because during the previous warrants you've been leaving people on the way. It was the fault of the crisis, by the way, but not of its policies. But now that we have left, as you say, the crisis back then and the crisis is over, we do not stop repeating it. Well, in this first year of legislation -- no crisis -- you missed a great opportunity to pick up the people you left on the road, but you didn't. Which kept repeating "Galicia, Galicia, Galicia" decided that those who stayed behind would stay there. We know he doesn't fire them because he's not covered in his cell phone. But don't worry, what you don't explain to them has already been explained to them. His three examples, the 3Gs — like Galicia’s mobile technology — illustrate Galicia’s ruin with a president like you. Look, in the State budgets, its political irrelevance was total. Their absolute majority cost us 30% investment discount. We have been treated as conquered land, of which we must not seduce to attract or reward their loyalty. In the veto on the AP-9 debate, there is no Greek who feels no pity for you. It was humiliating to see the minister come here to tell you that they wouldn't even consider it. In that sense, you produced even tenderness. Look, let's be serious, who's in charge of the People's Party? It would be true the campaign slogan that Feijóo was just a militant, but not Galician, of the People's Party. And the difference is quite obvious: a militant pastored by Ana. Don't let yourself be pastored, Mr. Feijóo. That's from meek rulers. [[Murmurs.]] The third shows of its political irrelevance we had with the AVE. The minister came, applied to the Mordaza Law, prohibited him from talking about deadlines and then sent him to Madrid to read his lesson, sing his 40s and tell him that five years of delay and 22 curves like that of Angrois between Taboadela and Ourense. Great! To finish the business, he came here with the startling news that he had got a commission to make the minister fulfill his promises. Look, historian Justo Beramendi has qualified this fact as an unusual, revealing fact of its political insignificance. It's unusual to have to get a commission for a minister of your party to fulfill their obligations. Anyway, you've passed the story. How you want to pass on to her! Definitely, your 3G technology doesn't connect to Galicia. Look, as far as you're concerned about your way of ruling the country inside, you seem to be driving the bus of recovery out of the way — and I say the bus because if I say the boat the president likewise throws me out of the hemicycle. You see there's wealth, you see there's precariousness, you see there's inequality, but you can't trust the relationship between wealth and inequality and you can't put solutions. No, you can't, because you can't rule. Look at your bus, it's almost empty. During the years of economic crisis and social depression, you've been cutting down on a lot of bus people, people who have stayed in the hives, those blankets of franchise walkers who are still about to exhume. Today you must render accounts for so many people who have left behind these years of crisis, and those who have not stopped picking up in their celebrated year of kindness. Mr Feijóo, the refugees, the unemployed, the unemployed, the emigrants, the students, the pensioners, those who suffer to arrive at the end of the month, those who suffer cuts of light and water, the precarious, the self-employed, the sick who don't have to pay the medicines left him a message in the voice box. And as we know you haven't thought about it, we've come here to tell you what the subject is in your name. The crisis in Galicia has led to a deepening of inequalities, as a result of its revenues of neoliberal economy and programmed recentralization, which is evidenced even more now, which increases wealth without increasing well-being and thus widens the gap of inequality. You are consolidated this year as president of inequality. Congratulations! During this year it has increased by two points — this year, two points — the risk rate of child poverty and increased people in situations of severe material exclusion, Mr President. People who have no bread to bring to their mouth, Mr. President of the recovery. The data are the officers, also 25% of the population in Greece is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. One in four people you cross the street has trouble reaching the end of the month. But, of course, for that, you have to walk down the street and get something out of Mount Pio. Your only measure for them, what was it? He exposed it this morning: the electric ticket. And what did you do with the electric ticket last year? Take out the money from the electric ticket to put it in bulbs to illuminate the ruin of Gaiás. Great social policy, yes sir! She'll be fine, won't she? Pick it up. Stop, and pick up all those people who left the way, and do it now. They can't wait anymore. While the Government of the Socialist Party, and the People's Party soon, began a bank rescue which led to the injection of public funds of EUR 100 billion — EUR 100 billion, which is said to be ready — people, to compensate for these bank rescues, while this happened, in the neighborhoods of our cities, in Canido, in Montealto, in Coia, lost their homes because they could not afford the mortgage. The defiances fired at the number of families that were left without their homes and are still in debt: to this day, 15,000. Is there anything sadder than losing the house and having to keep paying the mortgage? Today the gift in payment has contributed, at least partially, to the palliating of the drama. Do you know how you got the donation paid? Well, look, through the social mobilization of people who stood in front of the police so they could keep the house and couldn't take the King Aurelias from where they lived; that is, Mr. Feijóo, peacefully disobeying unjust laws. Yes, Mr. Núñez, there are unfair laws and there are brave citizens willing to put their bodies in order to prevent injustice. It was this citizenship that raised the voice in Europe because a so-called Constitutional Court believed that putting an old woman in her house was not violating any constitutional rights. Mr. Núñez, not everything that's legal is fair. [[Applause]] Of course, there are unfair laws. There are unfair and clear laws that need to be changed; and the Constitution needs to be changed to ensure basic rights as housing. That's why you brought us here: end the injustices, wherever they are written, wherever they are written! By the way, the defiances haven't disappeared yet. [[Applause]] Official data from the General Council of the Judiciary: last year around 2,300 families were defeated in Galicia. Silence, in addition, another problem. 50% of suicides in Galicia are related to social impoverishment. Arresta Galicia continues to lead the dramatic suicide statistics, without the Board updating the Strategic Mental Health Plan beyond the announcement they made last week. While people lose their homes and lose their lives... - Don't they like to hear the reality of what's going on in the street? [[Murmurs.]] Not reaching the walls of this Parliament.— While people lose their homes, the minister of their party, Luis de Guindos, announced a few weeks ago that these 40,000 million euros should be forgiven to the bank. He forgave 40 billion euros to the bank. With which, the big bankers will have a great party of those that will soon remember that there was snow. Tell the minister he could do it because that's legal. Does that sound fair to you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Even if it's legal, does it seem fair to you that while 2,300 Greek families are homeless, the state gives the bank 40 billion euros? It's legal, but is it fair? You'll answer later if you like, Mr. President. Do you now understand the difference between what is legal and what is fair? Do you understand now why you're here in Marea? Why did In Marea come to politics? To make justice with the things that are legal, but they're not fair. [[Applause]] There are thousands of families in Galicia who work and don't arrive at the end of the month -- we know that you're better at talking than listening, but doing your exercise for this half hour -- and girls who work and can't be emancipated from their parents; couples who charge a misery, with impossible times that prevent them from planning themselves to be parents or mothers. With its neoliberal model of precarious work, people work and don't leave poor. You are responsible for the dictatorship of the precarious, based on temporality, low wages and loss of rights. On average, an employee — because the precarious one has a woman's name — signed ten annual contracts to have a job for a year. Temporary employees average 32% less than those undefined; average 8,000 euros less per year. Precautionary work, poorly paid work. In Galicia there are 20,000 false autonomouss. The first precarious job is fraud, the fraud you're trying not to pursue. Thousands of young men and women don't charge or are insured on weekends, and they don't have weekly rest because they hire them for hours or days. Did you know all this, Mr. Feijóo? Yes, of course you know, how will you not know? At the PP they are very aware of the precariousness of work, so they complement the wages of their high charges with black money envelopes. Of course they do. [[Applause]] You created a work structure that chronicled precarious work. Congratulations! You follow thatcherist path. The Greek version of Merkel's mini-jobs is Feijóo's "work", mini-salaries with super-hours. He'll be proud. That's what they do, because there's a lot of people who don't work. Where is Junta to help long-term unemployed people, unemployed people, young people? What did he do to join them this past year? You know what he did? Swindlers, swindlers! You came here this morning to talk about a series of investments in employment programs. Do you know how much you left last year without spending on the 2016 budgets? More than EUR 100 million, including employment improvement and job-training programmes. 60% of the money to boost employment was spent. Shame. And after that, who's gonna believe what's coming here to promise about employment? Look, the girls and boys in this country are the ones who don't believe the PP lies, and that's why he punishes them, right? You're going around the neighborhood of Vite or Teis or Marinemansa, almost half of the young people you cross over there, under the age of 25, are unemployed. Half the time I'm unemployed. And those who work are the main sufferers of these "work" who are so proud of you. You condemn youth to the dictatorship of the "faejoist precarious." Under those conditions no one can leave the house. They can't leave the house or work! 80% of children under the age of 33 live with their parents. 80%, aged 33 and in the case of parents! No demographic plan or vains with these heights. How are we going to promote birth if young people live in their parents' homes? Do you have to explain everything to him, Alberto? And what did he do to Junta this year? [[Murmurs.]] Create bonds, rental bonds that then spend on other games. [[Applause]] And he has public housing, as in the case of the Tinería neighborhood in Lugo, that he prefers to let it go before he makes it available to new people. All this is what you do with the youth you haven't been able to emigration, because since you ruined this country, more than 22,000 people between 15 and 30 years of age have had to go abroad. You threw us into emigration. They're labor exiles, you understand. You don't rule, you ruin the lives of young people. Stop that propaganda bus once and listen to people. Speak to them or, if not, at least send them an app, even if it is with an emoticon, and ask them for forgiveness; beg them for forgiveness for leaving them without a future. Our country's problem is the lack of expectations of young people, so they're leaving. And those who are left with the lack of security, the uncertainty. That's what causes the demographic decline. He promised solutions a year ago and he didn't do anything again. Mr. Núñez, his political irrelevance led him to accept the dismantling of the financial sector without protesting. First he let Abanca escape from Venezuela, including all his cultural and real estate heritage, now accepted the disappearance of Banco Pastor, with the loss of hundreds of jobs and the again scam of small savers. He also gave him the massive scam of ground clauses, so Junta didn't activate consumer services to defend thousands of mortgagers in our country. It doesn't hurt. As a good gentle president who is allowing the catastrophic situation of the livestock sector... [[Murmurs.]] Do you have any gutural problems, Mr. Martín? Yes, because the emission of certain onomatopes... [[Murmurs.]] Well, first, Mr. Feijóo, in relation to the livestock sector, who prepare the papers well because according to the EPA of 2016...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u31	Quiet, please. Quiet, then answer the president. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This debate whose answer is the president, not you, eh! Silence and don't interrupt. We are going to conduct the debate normally, which is what is being asked. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u32	First of all, the papers are well prepared, Mr President, because according to EPA, the population occupied in the sector fell in the last year by 7.1%. His mental regionalism allowed the dairy contracts to be negotiated in Madrid. He has forgotten the Welsh dairy group, the processing industry. We made milk and then bought yogurt and cheese from outside. Open your refrigerator and check the labels. Not a word this morning about food sovereignty. How good they could live peasants and peasants if they had good government! The dry idea of the Council is worse than the lack of water. Spable! Climate change is here. It's not worth taking the money out of fires: we have to increase the agrarian surface and diversify forest crops. Toxins are not the problem, unraveling is not the solution. He doesn't know! The mountain is not like what you have on Mount Pio. And neither a word about energy transition nor the mismanagement of the CAP, where we lost money because the Government does not introduce -- the Spanish Government, to which you let it do -- a correction coefficient in terms of the jobs generated and the number of farms in Galicia. But you don't care, Galicia already has a plan: to sell the countryside to the cellulose cartel, to turn it into a great eucalyptal... and of course also into an open sky mine with its flaming law of predation in Galicia. For that, you need to depopulate it beforehand, so that multinationals don't have to kill us as if we were Indians in the Amazon. Their policies are a step towards rural life. And speaking of swings — if anyone didn't tell him — the quintessentials have already reached Valdeorras, Alberto. [[Murmurs.]] The Ourense rural is compatrioted and surrounded...—that they hardly listen, eh!—by a worse seam than the one that wipes the potatoes in the Navy. [[Murmurs.]] I think, and I'm telling you honestly, that it wasn't nice for you to defend Baltar in the case of sexual harassment. There are things an honest politician should not do, so I pity his servants, and it saddens me that he has to hide his head in his own homeland before His Highness Baltar of the House of Deputy, the second of his name, King of the Andals and First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and protector of the Kingdom of Feijóo. Here's the play of thrones in the People's Party. But rural is not its fort and the sea neither, bringing out its known affection for waterships. So you watch quietly the dismantling of fishing boats, and it's rare your silence because dismantling you understand enough and at least when referring to public services. You made our health the business of your friends, Alberto. You're the champion of health privatization. It diverts patients to the private care facility by accident, surgery, ophthalmology... all while entire plants of the public remain closed. Here again he cheats. No normal country would buy for their six-year-old son three-year-old clothes, right? Well, look, Junta did a Cunqueriro in Vigo with the ability to care for fewer people than she has in the health area. As a result, thousands of beams attended in Povervisa. And the same thing happens in Lugo with the Pole. The suppression of sanitary areas in the Navy, Monforte, Valdeorras and Salnes is outraged all over the world; so much so that all these districts are mobilized against the loss of services. They defend what is of everyone: the right to health and life, also theirs. Its health reform dismantles primary care and will turn comarcal hospitals into simple outpatient clinics. Cataracts are no longer operating in Burela, and those from the boat are going to rehabilitation in Ourense. Retired from Veiga, from Valdeorras, they saw this summer as no squares or vacations were covered. They have to move to other centers and pay for their long pockets and expensive taxi trips, of pensions that are sometimes of misery. The health cost is transferred to patients. Before the administration adapted to people; now it's people who have to adapt to administrations, according to the president's convenience at every moment. In Lugo, no hemodynamics 24 hours. You better infarction in office hours, if you don't, the thing's fucked up, I say crusa. When it comes to health, proximity saves lives and distance kills. You're dangerous to our health. [[Applause]] This year, as euthanasia continues for public education, they have dedicated themselves to shielding private concerts, including sex-segregates, as if this were Saudi Arabia. He spoke about the scholarships this morning. Look, spend twenty-nine times more on religion teachers than on scholarships -- I could count this as well. There are children and children without a place in public childhood schools, but instead of giving more, they make a Council bonus to fund private schools. [[Applause]] It has a pollution combined between the destruction of the public and the destruction of the rural, leading it to a genuine policy of extermination of the rural. It's not enough health, it's also devoted to closing schools: four schools and nine units this year. As bad as it was the legislating of the countryside! He forgot to complete: "the legislation on the extermination of the countryside." But be careful, neither in the bridges nor in the Outes Mountains do people forget: the president of the rural extermination. As Galicia thinks it's a neighborhood in Madrid, she's only interested in AVE, like it's a meter on the surface. You're not interested in the rest of the communications. He's completely broken the ground with his new transport plan. Salceda, Mondariz, O Courel, O Barco... It's tens of municipalities that see their transport system out of their heads. And on the train, anyway. Not near the metropolitan areas, nor FEVE, nor anything. The only thing you need is to be well connected to the Coruña and Ourense by conventional train. They're so smart, so smart, so smart this year they approve electrifying the track and they don't touch the plot, with which, the speed will be the same as until now. That's right, they come and put the birds of the AVE on us as if there were no alternatives. Because of our debt, we're becoming increasingly impoverished. When you arrived in the Government, every German owed 1,470 euros. Today we owe 4,190 more. Three times more indebted. And now he's coming to talk about tax reductions. Let's see, man, what's this happening? Do you really think that 25 percent of the population at risk of social exclusion was interested in something about this announcement? Do you really think you're going to fool people with their chocolate? The ladies of the third age who have been close to a month and a half -- no, three months -- to the Rianxo Town Hall, asking for a day center, do you think they prefer?, do they leave you in your wallet fifty euros more a year or can you build a day center? The collective effort of the sum of these 50 euros creates public services for which everyone benefits. It's solidarity, it's social justice, where, by the way, it contributes to who else. People are willing to pay taxes if they're well employed. But no, you're so unlucky that you give up picking because you can't invest. Your industrial policy also has one digit this year: zero. The weight of the industry in the German GDP is currently below the year 2000. I suppose you'll have to congratulate him. Since you arrived you work in the automotive industry around 2,000 fewer workers -- congratulations too! -- and this morning no reference to pemes either, which are the ones most employed they create in our country. Let's talk about something you do know, what you teach the true lessons. Over the past year, you have proved to be once again more worthy militant of the People's Party, which has 800 defendants and dozens of convicted throughout the state. At this moment, Spain's largest popular group is already Soto del Real, where we assume that the PP will hold its next Congress. [[Applause]] We will overcome previous corruption cases, only those that took place between 2016 and 2017 for the disappointment of their voters last year. These days they judge Xinzo's mayor for continuing prevarication, they judge the mayor of Barriers for illegal urban licenses, they investigate the one of Xunqueira for labor exploitation and three operations were especially played: Operation Condor, which made us bring this House to ask why a person who benefited from public contracts had to give you or the vice president the bottles of Vega Sicilia, and especially why you had to accept those faces of Vega Sicilia. Maybe it's not a crime, but it's okay? Man, we don't think so. Operation Lezo, which follows at the National Audience for illegal financing of the People's Party, has its tentacles in Galicia. Villar Mir, of what we know he financed with a million euros the People's Party, did him a favor that he wanted to charge here by segregating the hydroelectric power stations of Ferroatlantics. And he almost got it. It was the citizenship of the Coast of Death that prevented you from consuming the illegality of segregation. They appreciate the mobilizations, because, if it weren't for them, segregation would be over, and maybe the Lezo operation would have new illustrious researches in this House today. But, of course, if there's a star case here is the Champion case, the most serious case of corruption affecting the Galician People's Party. And no, it's not because among the 13 defendants there were four members of the People's Party, including the president of the Igape and the popular deputy Pablo Cobián — who was not long ago sitting very close to you, behind that chair, in this Chamber—that's not the problem. That's not the problem. That doesn't make you corrupt. The grave thing, what makes you an activist of corruption is the way the People's Party handled Join in criminal proceedings. There were 13 defendants in the case. Well, the People's Party, through the Council of Galicia, has been accusing everyone less, by chance, of those who had the sheep of the People's Party. The People's Party, manipulating Galician Union, did not accuse members of the People's Party. Why? Because the wolves don't bite between themselves, that's why. [[Applause]] The only charge there was against the PP militants, you know what it was? The DA's. The director of the Igape and popular deputy Pablo Cobián were convicted of corruption after they recognized the facts. If the trial depended solely on the PP charges, those convicts would be free today and their crimes would remain in impunity. When you cover corruption it doesn't represent us and it doesn't represent citizens and citizens of Galicia, who really wanted to see people among the races, because they're honest people, because they're people who don't want corruption. When you don't accuse, he allows thieves to keep them stolen, and they don't steal from you or steal from us, steal from all the Greeks and all the Greeks. What they steal is money for doctors, schools or our dependents. Perhaps that is why the PP has repeatedly voted in this House against creating an anti-corruption prosecution for Galicia, as I have repeatedly proposed in Marea, because they know that, if it existed, it would also investigate the grey areas of party financing, those of which you have used to compete economically doped for elections, as you have recognized in the press. [[Applause]] I do not want to forget, in the matter of democratic regeneration, despite the People's Party, the Alvia case. I would like, on behalf of En Marea, to thank the victims for their struggle for truth and justice, of which we were only humble fellow parliamentarians. It is thanks to them that we will have the opportunity to find the truth and learn, so that the success will not happen again. We can also talk during this year of cutting civil liberties, to begin with, about the violence of machos that condemn women to fear, suffering and death. That's the first lack of freedom. And something is not doing well when we're the first autonomous community in the number of feminicides and one of the smallest number of legal resources available. In the field of civil liberties, you also closed the non-profit radio station, which after twenty-one years in the antenna had to close your broadcasts. The question is, will they do the same with all stations that don't comply with the current legislation or are they just preparing for the municipal elections? The Government delegation threatened those against health reform in Burela. Are you going to catch up with everything you think is different from you? The bill of public shows significantly reduces freedom of expression and dissemination of cultural and artistic creations in public space. Are you by the spirit of Don Manuel from "the street is mine"? His only known cultural activity is to change the slates of the Gaiás, which fall into pieces, such as the movie Zárate, of Mugardos, while waiting for an intervention by the Board that does not arrive... Mugardos, where the law is not met, when Reganosa is concerned. Aren't you a person of law and order? Well, it's too late. [[Applause]] Mr. Núñez, no. This policy doesn't represent us. They're not ruling for people, they're losing legitimacy, because the reason for democracy is that most people realize the social and democratic values that benefit all citizens. You forgot that. They made so much noise breaking the welfare system of our democracy that people woke up and turned against you. It turns against those who, by abusing the legitimate confidence of the electoral victory, betray the interests of their voters, as you did in just one year. There are many problems you haven't dealt with here today because you live in a cartoon film, but we want to remind you of some. Firstly, employment and the fight against precariousness. Since you do not, we will again call on this House to repeal the two labour reforms immediately and to draw up a strategic plan which is economically — and which does not spend on other things — for the inclusion of youth, women and long-term unemployed. Rescue from emigration. Give them some time. We will present — and they will have the opportunity to support or amend it — a strategy aimed at repatriating and labouring the immigrant youth, as well as the increase in social housing for young people, so that they can live independently on their return. We'll invite them back to talk to us about basic income and social justice so that we don't leave people who suffer the most. In the fight against male violence, we will continue to provide more means for judges of violence and more means of equal prevention and education. We have to prevent things from happening from the start. And in the matter of funding — this is the third time we say so in this House — we put forward a confederal model based on fiscal sovereignty, with the normative capacity to decide on taxes and resource adequacy, not to alleviate the current situation, but to make alternative economic policies that allow us to end the problems the country has, which is what you have given up with your bet on by a shrinking Galicia in which we do not believe and to which we do not resign. And a third pillar of this financing model is cooperation within the state and European framework, to ensure a single income and to avoid tax evasion of the great Spanish patriots to Switzerland or Panama, as they usually do always. [[Applause]] The same could be said in terms of local funding, with the immediate derogation we need from the Montoro Law, which has devoted these years to the privatization of services and to failing to provide others. In the metropolitan areas, we ask the People's Party to unlock its development. It is essential for mobility to reversibrate the territory, environmental quality and labour opportunities. In culture, there is a need for a new strategic plan and the development of the Audiovisual Law. With regard to the freedom to disseminate political ideas and access to true information, the degree of information manipulation of the public media in Galicia produces bochornno. The transformation of televisions into true NO-DO of Feijoist propaganda is gruesome, and the invisibility not only of political alternatives, but of any kind of social movement that is disaffected with the Council of Galicia is more characteristic of an authoritarian state than of a democracy. That's why we will present to them a proposal for a public media bill that ends forever with this democratic shame. [[Applause]] We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there are certain areas where the proposals of the People's Party break any minimum social consensus, and we believe that they do not bring together the minimum social consensus among their own voters, so we call on Members and Members of the parliamentary forces other than the People's Party to sum up efforts, both on the street and in Parliament, to make the social majority absolutely superior than that of the People's Party. That is why we have offered, since equality, a partnership agreement on the following subjects, understanding that the popular claim is unanimous and our voices must be as unanimous in Parliament as in the street, the only voice of people, and in three matters. First, in the defense of a free and universal public health system throughout the territory. Secondly, in the defence of public education in equality, free of charge, quality and for all. And thirdly, in defense of the territory and against the law of depredation of the territory. I'll be done by now. For the interests of Galician citizenship, everything doesn't wear out today in the country. In Marea he was born to respond to a popular complaint in Galicia, to remove the chapter from the institutions and to clear up incompetence and corruption with a national project based on democracy and social justice. Our tools for mass decontamination are democratic radicality, the right to decide, the recognition of state plurality and the defense of civil liberties and social rights, but to clean this hat take many hands. That's why In Marea wants today to offer in a horizontal and fraternal way, with regard to its diversity, to the political forces of Parliament other than the People's Party, an open partnership pact between equal, democratic, social and multi-national recognition of the state. This agreement would be based on three key points. First, the constitution within the sphere of the State of a wide front of political spaces which, turning on a social, democratic and multi-national axis of the State, with full recognition of the right to decide, allows the People's Party to dislodge from the institutions. Second. With the new interlocutors in the Government of the State and the new parliamentary majority, to address a constitutional process which results in a new constitutional framework of confederal cut, adjusted to the principles of citizens of a democratic majority, citizen control, benefit of the common good of citizenship, greater guarantee of social rights and full recognition of the plurinational character of the State. Third. In this constituent framework, the assurance of the right of recognition of Galicia's national character and the provision of a legal-political framework is consistent with this condition, with a new competence framework and an internal charter of social rights that effectively ensures social justice and full solidarity for the whole of Greek citizenship. Mr. Nuñez, I'm sorry people don't trust you. If you weren't able to get the transfer of a highway, how can we trust you to go to Madrid to get a better future for Galicia? In Marea, with this proposal, it does not want to make proposals on the part, it is a proposal by the social majority, of all of whom, knowing various things, have in common democratic and social values and the pursuit of the well-being of our citizenship, because we want — and I conclude — that Galician citizenship is an active protagonist of the political and social changes that are taking place. In Marea we think that this is the place, the thirst for popular sovereignty in Galicia, and this is the moment, when the winds of constituent change blow ever stronger. Two-thirds of the people who listen to us couldn't vote for the Constitution; it's time this generation manifests what it wants and takes the incomes of its destiny. The Greek people are older and need no tutelage. We don't need a monarch, whom no one has chosen, to teach us lessons in democracy and to distribute meats of good and bad subjects. We are not meek and we are not subjects, we are free citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u34	...and we won't admit a different deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u35	Thank you, Mr. Villares. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called for the first time in this legislation for the annual debate on the general policy of the Autonomous Community. It is the first to be convened following the reform of the 2015 House Regulation, which included it. He celebrates the year he celebrated the autonomous elections that endorsed the re-election of President Alberto Núñez Feijóo with a larger majority than he had when he first counted on the confidence of the House. It is indeed a general policy debate on accountability, analysis of the situation and proposals for the future, which demonstrates the normality and institutional stability of our Autonomous Community; a feature which today, more than ever, in view of the serious situation in Catalonia caused by a parliamentary independentist majority — that is not a majority elected by most voters — which has closed the Catalan Autonomic Parliament, it is worth highlighting: that of normality. It's the first debate on general policy of this legislation, but it's the seventh of the president; of a president who has twice been reinforced by elections. So it's the seventh of a political cycle that starts in 2009. Then, in 2009, Galicia was already dragging a year away from the worst economic crisis facing our country. In the second quarter of 2009, GDP fell by 4.5%, in the biggest decline in the production that is being remembered, and as a result unemployment increased in a particularly intense way, at least 32% fell registered, and at least 4.7% fell in membership of Social Security; that is, no less than 50,000 people had lost their jobs in the year before the Galician People's Party assumed responsibility for ruling in 2009. At one time, by the way, two of the spokesmen who preceded me supported the majority who allegedly made policies to fight unemployment. Today we know why all this happened. The deregulation of financial markets, inspired by irrational anarchoid neoliberalism, combined with the globalization of world society as a result of the new technologies of communication, led to the collapse of the international financial system. That collapse slowed the real economy, which led to an economic crisis in the financial crisis. The unemployment caused by the economic crisis, in turn, brought inequality as a result of the fall in the collection of taxes, which, multiplied by the progressive nature of the tax system, put the welfare state at risk. The perfect storm: more needs, less resources and therefore a strong social impact. And as so many times in history, the social crisis has caused a political crisis, the largest that is living in Spain since the transition. The old populist, extremist and nationalist ideas, defenders of solutions as radical and simple as useless to solve the complexity of social problems, have found an acuble in the social distress that the crisis has provoked and called into question the system of values and democratic rules that have made progress in so many countries after the Second World War in continental Europe, as in Spain, the fifth country in the world that has grown in the last forty years. In this way, the financial crisis followed an economic crisis, which caused a social crisis that led to a political crisis. A sequence that not only affected Galicia but also most Western countries, which brought down governments like those of Cameron and Holland and which caused the emergence of new leaders like Trump or anti-system movements, both from the far right and the far left, which only in a critical and socially convulsive context could prosper in Europe, including Galicia. Spain was no exception, and the crisis was accentuated by the weakness of a more indebted economy abroad that had devoted the resources lent to low interest — because the interest was already low then, after the introduction of the euro — to inflate a gigantic real estate bubble which exploded immediately after the financial crisis triggered. As a result, our economic crisis was more fundamental than the rest of the European Union, and unemployment has reached historical records. The consequent social crisis caused a political crisis, and it was in this context that the dispersion of vote was caused by the heat of new political forces, particularly populists. And it is precisely in that economic context of social crisis and the rise of the new populist political forces in which Alberto Núñez Feijóo and the Galician People's Party assume responsibility for ruling. And the extraordinary concatenation of the majority reached by President Alberto Núñez Feijóo and the group that I have the honour to represent again in this debate, the Popular Parliamentary Group, realizes that, in view of the apocalyptic predictions of those who have been opposed in the last eight years — it has been stated in this House that the elections of 2012 were the last autonomous elections to be held because the people would occupy the institutions and assume the Government—, what this Government and this group has shown is that it is possible to escape the crisis and maintain institutional stability, and that with good management, good policies and responsibility can be gained the majority confidence of voters without the need to seek out an external enemy to blame, whether this is a European troika black or a Spain thief. [[Applause]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, in order to know where we are, once we remember where we came from, and before we think about where we want to go, it should be noted first that the financial crisis is already overcome and new Community regulations and greater control by the European Central Bank is exercised by the European Central Bank which makes the whole system more solvent. Today the cream to entrepreneurs is not a problem, and even the Union is pushing — as the President announced today — the financing of innovative projects in Galicia. Second. The economic crisis, understood in its technical sense of recession as concatenation of periods of decline or fall of GDP, has gone back and forth. Third. The social crisis remains between us, but its effects in Galicia have been and are less intense than in the whole of Spain. Fourth. Therefore, this Government's goal for the future — as the President said this morning — can only be strengthened and consolidated by the economic growth that generates employment and improves the welfare system that we all build. Fifth. Galicia's political stability is the best guarantee for the achievement of these objectives, but on that stability there is a threat, which is the institutional instability that can provoke contempt for constitutional order in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, which affects the whole of Spain and also in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, the German economy has been growing steadily for two years. Although in the period 2008-2014 the GDP decrease was average to the year of minus 1.2%, in the period 2014-2016 the increase was 2.6%. In the last year of the period, 2016, the growth rate exceeded the excellent Spanish rate of 3.2 per cent, reaching 3.4 per cent, two tenths more, and 1.5 tenths more than the average growth rate in the European Union. The Greek economy, which has been in chains for positive inter-trimester growth rates since 2013, which clearly marks the technical exit of the recession, continues to grow in 2017, in the second quarter, at inter-annual rates above 3.2%, one tenth more than Spain, or, according to the recently published Abanca-Foro economic scenario indicator, at 3.5% in last July. And most importantly, in terms of GDP per capita Galicia has reached the convergence value with the highest Spanish economy in its history in 2016: 89.1% over the average of Spain cent. Thus, since 2000, where Galicia was in terms of GDP per capita in 77.6 of the average Spain 100, and in third place below all autonomous communities, only worsened by Andalusia and Extremadura, it is currently in the tenth place. A climb of 7 posts, 2 of them since 2016, in which we exceed GDP per capita to Asturias, Valencia and Canary Islands among other autonomous communities. Economic growth has basically sustained domestic demand, with an increase of 2.5 points, and improvement in the external sector with an increase of 0.6 points. But it is more relevant to see the importance of this economic situation by taking a look at GDP from the perspective of supply, which reflects a change in the productive structure of Galicia since 2009, with a clear recovery of the GDP of agriculture and fisheries, which increased from 4.2 to 4.6; a rise in industry's contribution from 16.4 to 16.6; a fall in construction from 10.9 % to 6%; and a rise in services from 60.3 to 63.2. I mean, as often explained to the counselor of Fairy, a healthy growth. And logically, this growth is translating into job improvements. In the second quarter of 2017, occupation increased in all sectors except construction, where it dropped by 5.6. In industry and construction, however, more of the occupations in Galicia were increased than in Spain as a whole, and yet it was in the services where the occupation grew more in Spain, a 1.9, compared to Galicia, a 0.6, which can be an explanation of the differential of job creation between the national and Galician territory. As for the previous quarter, the occupation grew in Galicia by 2.3, a tenth less than in Spain as a whole. Regarding the evolution of unemployment, according to EPA, the number of unemployed in the last two years has declined more in Galicia than in Spain. In the second quarter of the year there were 201,500 unemployed in Galicia, which means a 9.6% reduction. We are certainly creating jobs, but it is also true that the total increase in employment is lower in Galicia than in Spain, and that is why we applaud and appreciate the measures that the President proposed this morning to boost employment to the House. First of all — and especially because of its long-term effects — they relate to education, particularly vocational training. Today in Galicia there are 47% more squares than there were in 2009, and new models of training and job insertion, such as dual vocational training, are being promoted. An employability of 80% reflects the importance of opening squares in vocational training and cycles, instead of closing training cycles mainly in rural areas, which was what Bipartite did, which left us 13,600 students less in vocational training in relation to 2005. Today — and I insist that with 80% employability at the end of the studies — the number of vocational training students is higher in Galicia than those enrolled in the Bachelor's degree, and in these figures Galicia is closer to Germany than the average of Spain. Secondly, support for self-employed workers and entrepreneurs, which facilitates measures such as the extension of the flat rate of EUR 50 for one more year, the creation of an autonomous bonus of EUR 3,000, or those which favour the conciliation of self-employed people. Thirdly, by supporting companies with funding, with aid for R & D+i, encouraging Industry 4.0 and accompanying internationalisation. And supporting businesses that create jobs in Galicia with new initiatives like our group is working on in this House; I refer to the Business Implementation Promotion Act. A law which seeks to simplify the administrative processing of projects without reducing environmental protection; which fiscally encourages companies that occupy land in the industrial areas of Galicia; and which facilitates the development of business soil in the face of growing demand for land, so that supply failure is not the main competitive disadvantage with northern Portugal. In this law, ladies and gentlemen, we are as always open to the agreement. It's about encouraging the establishment of companies to create jobs and prevent the relocation of other countries due to lack of soil, and the consequent drag of jobs. Finally, figures show that the economic crisis is behind it and that it is now about consolidating the growth of an economy that wants to grow with talent, internationalization, innovation and well-paid work. Growing up economically enables us to face the second great crisis that still survives among us, which is the social crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the crisis and its main consequence, unemployment, has deteriorated and deteriorated equality in our society. And that's why the one who most prejudiced equality in our society was the one who most jobs destroyed in the past in Galicia and Spain. According to the indexes we know, however, the inequality differential reflects a Galicia more egalitarian than the average of Europe and that the average of Spain. And it can look perfectly at the income distribution index S80/S20 — European index — that is, by analyzing the evolution of income accumulated by 20% of society's richest against those accumulated by 20% poorest. Galicia passed between 2008 and 2015, from 4.0 to 4.5 — and then 0.5 on the deterioration of equality — but it is far from the European Union average to 27 — which is 5.2 — and far beyond the Spanish average — which is 6.6 — with a deterioration much higher than that of Galicia because since 2008 it has been 7 tenths and not 5ths. The crisis, and basically unemployment, has deteriorated equality, but this data shows that Galicia is a society more equal than Spain, and even the European. First of all, because it works the personal income redistribution in the Spanish ensemble. If, as I pointed out earlier, per capita GDP grew, in 2014 it was at 88.1 in Spain, while the gross income available from per capita households — i.e. the actual spending capacity — was in the same year at 92.5 of the average Spain=100. I mean, Galicia had already in 2014 -- the last year that can be compared -- more capacity per capita spending, in average terms, than it could have in terms of per capita production. Secondly, because income redistribution is working at an interterritorial level. The combined effects of state public expenditure — a state that invests in Galicia, is the second largest community per capita in the budgets of this year — and of Community cohesion policies, the fiscal process and the system of self-financing make Galicia a community with positive fiscal balances, according to the last known balance of the year 2014, EUR 3.700 million. It is a result similar to that of any developed and democratic country that believes in the redistribution of income and welfare as instruments to achieve greater social justice. That's why when we talk about quotas, and we don't say we support the independence of the rich regions of Spain, what exactly are we talking about? To defend equality and the redistribution of income in a social and democratic state of law? Or to defend the absence of redistribution in the context of free and open markets? And who defends Galicia better? Who anticipates an alleged ideological solidarity with Catalan independenceists, or who anticipates the redistribution of income between people and territories to correct the unequal effects that generate open markets? Mrs. Pontón, who's the most in reality? Who sees Galicia in social, democratic and solidarity Spain or in the supposed colony of a foreign empire? We think we're in reality, and that's why we defend the unity of a state of solidarity. [[Applause]] Because we have no doubt, it better defends the interests of Galicia and all the Greeks who precede the principles of redistribution and social justice, in the context of Spain and an open market Europe, who for ideological prejudice favour and support insolidary movements in autonomous communities benefited over time by the functioning of markets, which have not always been free and open — as was the case in the times of franchise — and now defend, from a position of greater wealth, a rupture of the state's fiscal power, tax power on which the realisation of the redistribution of income and wealth in Spain depends. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia's best resistance to the social crisis also has much to do with the effort made since this Government, which has prioritized social policies and the maintenance of the welfare state over other actions. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition — who accuse us of being antisocial and not worrying about the people who are going through it worse — we are willing to face any comparison to the situation they left us in 2009, when the Union had the greatest volume of resources in its history. We've devoted much more resources to social policies. Including investment in 2017 107 million euros; 9 more than in 2016 and 73 more than in 2009. Depending on 336 million euros; 13 more than last year and 210 more than at the time you were in government. In disability, 95 million euros; 2 million euros more than in 2016 and 30 million euros more than when he ruled the left. In the family, 126% more spending, up to 123 million euros; and 10 million euros more than last year. This concern, this consciousness, allows us — as the President announced this morning — to advance the objective of having 60,000 dependents attended at the end of the legislation by 2018, as long as the state — as we hope it will do — to fulfil its recently acquired commitments, because we have also increased our commitment to the subject. In squares? Children's schools have grown by 75% since 2009. In daytime centers the squares grew by 141; in residences of older by 22; in Alzheimer's centers by 81; in disability squares by 16. The total number of all squares increased by 55%. In addition to specific social expenditure, the Government and the group are also willing to resist any comparison in relation to public health and education, either with the past or with the present of the other autonomous communities. The improvement of public health in Galicia, despite the crisis, is evidence. It can be seen in the 34 completed health centers and the 2 that are in construction; in the hospitals of Coruña, Lugo, Marina, Ourense, Vilagarcia, and soon in Pontevedra, Santiago or Ferrol. And in Vigo, that hospital that was going to be private and it turns out it's public; and that it was going to have a public municipal parking and it turns out that it has no public municipal parking. [[Applause]] It's also evidenced by reports that assess the degree of satisfaction of Spanish public health, that we remember it's the best fourth in the world, according to The Lancet magazine, in addition to countries such as Norway, Sweden and Finland. Because we look at Norway on an equal footing when we talk about health; we have health at their level. According to the Barometer Sanitary, in hospital care, the Greeks think it's good or very good at 94.70%, when the Spanish average is 83.80%. Even in the Barometer of the Federation of Public Health Associations, Galicia, which appeared in 2009 in item 11 of the 17 autonomous communities, appears in item 8. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it's good to lie about public health and PP. They said we were going to charge for going to the doctor — as it is, by the way, still being charged in Portugal. They said we were going to close the county hospitals and continue points of attention. They said doctors would charge for discharges. And they said that Vigo's private hospital wasn't going to be broken by the building UTE. There's a truth there, and it's not a private hospital, but a large public hospital, the Cunqueiro Alvaro, where, by the way, it's not charged by the co-workers' beds, as they also said in this House we're going to do. [[Applause]] In terms of health care, the fundamental cornerstone of our welfare system, a little responsibility, is what is needed, especially in the face of the processing of a reform of the Health Act — past the stages of allegations, which have not yet entered this House — that patients will benefit from improving from the proximity of the services of the comarcas hospitals; participation, with new organs of representation; and which will consolidate a model, that of the EOXI, which has already saved more than 260,000 trips from the neighborhoods to the hospitals of the cities. More than a quarter of a million of Jose Marias and Maria Joses who didn't have to move from the center where they are, from the town where they live, to the cities. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Speaking of photos, there are some who can exhibit interesting photos in demonstrations with very interesting people, people from the Basque Country, etc. I'll take a picture of public health and the privatization of PP. Health concerts: the Bipartite increased by 44%; that is, it left us at 212 million euros. In the period 2009-2016, 8.76 % fell and are in 193 million euros. I don't know who privatizes, but this is a good picture, the picture of who supported the management I've just told and who now criticizes us for supposed privatizations. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are overcoming the economic crisis; we are fighting for the improvement of the welfare state to fight the social crisis as a guarantee of a more just, equitable society that offers more opportunities for all. Obviously, as in the Investment Debate, they can think and argue that we're still doing the same things that we started to do in 2009. Indeed, because they produce results; because the Greeks and the Greeks positively value them after choice; and because they especially value that we fulfill our electoral promises. Let's remember some. On September 14, 2016 Feijóo announces that Galicia will expand the flat rate for self-employed. It's done. On September 16, 2016 Feijóo announces zero taxes for young people, large families and persons with disabilities in the purchase of housing in municipalities up to 20,000 inhabitants. It's done. He came to the Budgets Act in January. On September 19th, Feijóo announced a strategy for the rehabilitation of historical helmets. It's done. On 25 April Parliament came to the councillor to explain the measures being carried out with almost 40 million euros that this year's budgets are for rehabilitation. On September 20, Feijóo undertook to extend multilingualism to childhood education and vocational training. It's done. For the first time this year there is multilingual education in child education and vocational training. All this, by the way, always with the vote against all opposition groups. On 21 September Feijóo promised aid to small farms, closed 132 processes of partial concentration and the opening of 30 children's homes in rural areas. Not only is it in motion, but the 30 nested houses are open. We ask that the children's houses be enlarged and you voted against, but there are also 30 other children's houses that will allow them to have conciliation services in those municipalities where it's not so easy. [[Applause]] This is a small summary of the last year. And the opposition has also been in the same way for a year. Or, better said, more than continuity of persistence. But of persistence precisely in what made them stand in the opposition: in the same apocalyptic and manic discourse that the Greeks had already rejected in 2012 and 2016. I'm going to give you an example of your disaster speech. They thought they had a wire with Ferroatlantics. The PP sold the country to large companies. Mr. Villares came to say in this Chamber, in a sample of prospectives as correct as when he hoped for 30 Members for the Group of the Environment, that Mr. Villar Mir had already secured the authorization: "He has already bought it for a while ago." We affirm that the Union would act according to legality, and so it did. They made the biggest problem in Galicia the reorganization of three educational centers, in a country with more than a thousand centers. He did not shut up, and the course began with absolute normality. They wanted to be alarmed by the new transport plan, voluntarily or involuntaryly placed in the same trench — in the same trench, those who talk about friends — as the industry's great business lobby. They failed again. [[Murmurs.]] And his new battle horse is a draft draft draft draft of the Health Act whose effects already sound like they're going to be as apocalyptic as all of them before. The Health Act, by the way, you've granted nothing more to the government than 100 percent of the previous People's Government Health Act, and what we're doing is reforming 20 articles of a law that has 140. Obviously, you know how to make laws and we don't know how to do them. And when you take them down to 100 percent it must be that they're very good, and we, when you're derogating 20 140 articles to improve the law, seem to be destroying public health. You can banish everything you've done for us, but we have to keep everything you left immaculate. Why? Because above you are the most kind and we are the wicked. You're with the people, we're with the big business interests. It's a simple and simple message, and, of course, a fallacious and manicana, which leads us to the last dimension of the crisis that I referred to at the beginning of my intervention: the political crisis. He said the great Tzvetan Todorov, recently deceased, in his own The Intimate Enemies of Democracy, that this democracy is, first of all, a regime in which power belongs to the people, and that that is why it is a regime in which all citizens have the same rights. Secondly, that modern democracies are liberal when this first principle is added to it another: that part of people's ability to act is conditioned by public powers, but a large part remains in their hands. It also says Todorov: democracies call for a certain conception of political activity, and in that case they also try to avoid extremes. On the one hand, unlike the theocracy, they don't promise their citizens salvation and they don't impose on them the way forward to achieve it. Your program doesn't include building paradise on earth, and it's taken for granted that every social order is, by definition, imperfect. Because democracy implies the idea that it is possible to improve and perfect social order through the efforts of collective will. Democracy is characterized, according to Todorov, not only by how power is instituted and for the purpose of action, but also by how it is exercised. Not all powers should be entrusted, because they are legitimate, to the same people, nor should they concentrate on the same institutions, as by the way, does the law of Catalan disconnection. It is essential, for example, that the judiciary is not subject to political power. In this way, Todorov states: "The will of the people is to overcome a limit of another order, so to avoid suffering the effects of a passing emotion or a skillful manipulation of opinion, it must conform to the great principles defined after a mature reflection and recorded in the Constitution of the country." [[Murmurs.]] And so says Todorov: "The imminent dangers to the idea of democracy come from isolation and favoring only one of its constituent elements. People, freedom and progress are constituents of democracy, but if one of them gets thin and forgets others, then what we have, when it is the people, is populism; when it is freedom, what we have is ultra-liberalism; and when the third element of democracy is missing, what we have is messianism." Ultraliberalism has already been mentioned as the core of the crisis. And populism and mesianism are the threats underlying the political crisis that is destabilizing Spain and that can seriously harm our economic recovery. When I talk about populism and mesianism, it allows me to make a new literal quote that helps me understand what the current situation is. Cito: Are there any possibilities for a left-wing populism in Spain? If we assume that under certain conditions we can discursively generate a popular idea politicizable electorally, in our country we give the conditions. In our case, it was about adding the new demands arising from the crisis around a media leadership capable of dichotomizing political space. It continues: "The analysis of the experiences in Latin America came from new theoretical instruments to interpret the reality of the Spanish crisis, framed in the context of southern Europe, an area that we began to believe since 2011 was in a process of Latin Americanization understood as the opening of a structure of political opportunity. We were able to be very well prepared when the essential ingredient of the hypothesis appeared. We could: the possibility of leadership of a media figure that enjoyed a very high level of notoriety in Spain." And how does this more messianic media figure want to use the media to dichotomize and divide Spanish politics and provoke a Latin Americanization of politics in Spain? The author himself answers: "Denouncing corruption as an economic and political model of elites that embody the PP"—the wicked— "dechotomizes the electoral scene and places the choice between continuity and change in terms of our interests." End of date. Author, Paul Iglesias Turrion. New Left Review. [[Murmurs.]] Move the rival, turn him into an enemy to confront, populism. That's the goal, that's the goal. I think after that this is easy to understand and explain the behavior of some of the members of this House. Bringing to a consensual society division, confrontation, aggression and denigration, propagate it — as it was done with financial deregulation — by taking advantage of new technologies of communication in which, in the absence of veritable or journalistic controls, they create posters or alternative realities that violate the electoral rival, that's what these gentlemen do. [[Murmurs.]] For example, like corruption. [[Murmurs.]] Do you know what the Autonomous Community is with more charges charged for corruption in Spain? It's Catalonia, just the community where PP has less power in the whole state. There are 303 defendants. [[Murmurs.]] Do you know which is the second most charged with corruption? [[Applause]] The second community in which PP has less power: Andalusia. There are 153 accused of corruption. [[Murmurs.]] Catalonia has twice as much as Madrid, which has 145. And you know how many there are in Galicia? There are 20 of them in Galicia. I'm not going to do a qualitative analysis because, of course, I respect the right to presumption of innocence, and if we choose in order of importance, maybe it's not the PP that they're charged with in Galicia either. This is the data. You don't care about the truth. You're talking about thousands of defendants. This data is the official memory of the General Council of the Judiciary, not the tweets... It's not your tweets. [[Applause]] And I put corruption as an example that the truth matters the least to you. What matters to you is the possession, the creation of false images and the denigrating of the political rival, who becomes an enemy. That they are not our enemies, that they are enemies of democracy, so I started quoting Todorov. This political philosophy, which is applied consciously and premeditally, is what explains the behavior of some of the members of this House. In some cases I'm surprised more than anything about the profession and the professional activity of those who practice it, which is leaving us a series of sentences in this House that are going to pass into the anthology. Just as it was said that first you have to determine needs, which by definition are infinite, to then have the money, with which you will never find the money because the needs are infinite, today you left another also for the history of legal philosophy, and exactly what you said was... There are unfair laws. This is said in a democratic state by a democratic judge. I mean, it turns out that law, by definition, is the expression of popular will, which expresses the idea that society as a whole has justice, is unfair. [[Murmurs.]] And who says what's fair, Mr. Villares? [[Applause]] The bishop, the monarch, let's look at him in a natural law treaty or just ask you why he's a judge? That's the question. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, we continue to believe in democracy. The populism also, unfortunately, arrived in Catalonia, where nationalism brought its dichotomous axis and its denigration against the Spanish ensemble and its institutions. So the "Spain steals us," or "Spain oppresses us" in the face of the inability to face the crisis responsibly, as did Galicia and as did the Basque Country. A denigration and marking that already reminds us of, unfortunately today, the blackest episodes in contemporary European history. Mr. President of the Union, we thank, share and support your firm declaration of defense of constitutional order and statute against the risks posed by nationalist and populist challenges and their possible centralizing reaction. We do not oppose dialogue, on the contrary, we encourage it every day in this house and we will continue to do it, because for us dialogue and the search for consensus are intrinsic to our way of doing politics. Dialogue itself, without renouncing the great principles that cement all democratic and equitable social order, which are equality, equity, freedom and solidarity. And we defend and practice dialogue precisely because — as the President said this morning — we look at Galicia. We look at their people, our neighbors, who are looking forward to a decent job, a better future for their children, and a social protection system that helps those who need it. Neighbors and Greeks who treat and respect everyone politely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u38	...even when they have enough confidence to protect those who are on the street. That they know that these goals can only be achieved if they reject the rule of law that guarantees social peace. Because the vast majority of the Greeks and Greeks share, like us, what a great democrat, another president of the United States, has said in one of his last public interventions before falling dead in Dallas: "Any person who has studied history or the social conflicts of the present, has studied ethics or citizenship, or the tools that influence any conflict, knows that from law alone it is possible that free men can live together in peace and progress." I said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u39	Thank you, Mr. Puy. As you were informed on the agenda, the president could suspend. It is decided not to suspend, therefore, the President has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thanks a lot to the group spokespersons. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to try to answer the questions raised, especially those raised by the BNG and the Socialist Party, because unfortunately what I am proposing in Marea is self-contained. I wouldn't be able to answer a speech as fraternal and kind as one of the people who is currently the spokesman for En Marea. [[Applause]] Mrs Pontón, you say that the Catalans lack democracy, they miss democracy. It's because they've been ruled by nationalists for decades. Because, of course, I don't explain how a people lack democracy when they're not even able to complete legislation. Anyway, he also said amazing things about our country, because he said that in Galicia most people were extreme right-wing. That's an important insult and the Greeks won't take it into account. But to say that the president of the board is extreme right, that the group that supports him is extreme right, and it turns out that they have almost 48% votes, that is to say that almost half of the Greeks are extreme right. We're not going to take that into account, Mrs. Pontón, because you represent only 8% of the Greeks, and consequently 8% of the Greeks are not able to qualify most of the Greeks. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, you talked about the practice of State violence in Catalonia. A respect for the Civil Guard officials and the National Police. A respect for the Civil Guard officials and the National Police. [[Applause]] They are neither criminals nor activators of violence in compliance with judicial orders. I don't think the Greeks there deserve that qualification; neither the Greeks nor the rest. Because, as a socialist said yesterday, those civilian guards and those national cops are us, they're the ones that are guarding the House so you can say what you want. It's the one that's guarding the Greek institutions for self-government to be guaranteed. They are the ones who are holding Members' rights to say, under parliamentary inviolability, any kind of insult and disqualification to another person. Finally, they call themselves criminals of the Civil Guard and the Police. I don't think it should be included in the session log. Because State violence in a democratic state, ladies and gentlemen, can't be attributed to those who understand the laws and to those who execute the judicial judgments. Look, Your Honor, I've been listening to you -- I say with all due respect -- I've been listening to you for quite a long time, I said that I didn't come here to talk about Galicia, that I spoke about other things. You spoke of fiscal amnesty. I suppose you were referring to the PP, the PSOE, which you were supporting, no. He's talking about work reform. I don't know if you meant Mr. Macron or Mr. Rajoy. You spoke of different considerations, of defaming Catalan politicians. Just saying that I don't accept the Catalans saying that Spain is stealing from us because, consequently, the Greeks are stealing from us. Does it seem to you that it is to defame Catalan politicians or is it to defend Galician citizens? Mrs. Pontón, I have listened with great interest to all of your intervention, even the one you did in the morning in front of the media. He made a claim about democracy, about voting, and this morning he said with contempt, "He only has votes." Home, Your Honor, for the truth is, yes, the truth is we have votes. That is why I do not explain to you why you want to vote, because if you despise the votes — you despise the votes when you don't get your votes — it is surprising, Mrs Pontón, that you say that the President of the Board only has a vote. It is a phrase in which the position of the BNG is summarized in this debate of the state of Autonomy. [[Applause]] From there, Mrs. Pontón, everything you said, in my opinion, is absolutely respectable, but it is also, in my view, wrong. You say that the State budgets for Galicia are insufficient. Mr. Leicega also said so. It's 920 million of the Ministry of Development, 11% of the total of what the Ministry of Development has invested in Spain. Galicia is the second autonomous community in higher per capita investment, EUR 307 per capita, when the average of Spain is EUR 184 per capita. I mean, we have 67% more euros per inhabitant of every German than the rest of the Spaniards, and you think they're regrettable. 11% of the total budget when you agreed to have 8%. Exactly, Mrs. Pontón, I don't know what we're being accused of. You also talk about other things like the dairy sector. When I arrived at the Government, the price of milk was 26.7 euros. Yes, Your Honor, I understand that those who weren't here didn't even know. But right now it's 30.3. That's the big difference, Your Honor, between the price of milk when you rule in rural and now when we're tearing rural. It was 26.7 cents liter and it took 16 months in uninterrupted falls of the milk price. Now we've been up for six months at a price of 30.3 cents liter and it turns out we're mismanaging the matter of milk. Look, Your Honor, you're talking about how you wanted to create a milk group. We have made the greatest concentration of cooperatives in Galician milk history, the greatest! It will be because cooperatives believe in the sector, because cooperatives now feel safer than before. It's because something wouldn't hurt at the Rural Council when we were able to get anything but cooperatives in Galicia superior to Central Asturian Lechera. You talked about fires, too. You always talk about fires, wind. But do you really want us to remember the fires? Then tell me I remember the fires, but if I don't want to talk about the fires! But the least you should do is to congratulate the brigades this year, the year of drought, they managed to have an excellent result in the fires. It's the least BNG should do, congratulate the brigades, which without water have achieved an excellent result in the fires. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, in eight years of the Government I have the honour of presiding, they burned down in Galicia 30,000 hectares less than in the four years of the Bipartite. You kept talking about other things, all respectable, of course, but I can't share. You kept talking about how we have a waiting list in children's schools. In support of children, we increased the budget by 160 percent; when we arrived there were 47 million, now there are 123. We have launched 71 new schools since 2009, 73% more. The waiting list is zero. Why? Because if there's no place in a public school, we put a bonus, the Council Bonus, at the disposal of families. If you know those families in Sarria or anywhere else, tell us what they're called to offer them the Bono Council, which you have the right to if all the squares of the Blue Chicken in Sarria are occupied. Tell us what they're called to keep working for them. [[Applause]] There are 22,999 squares in public-funded children's schools. More than 3,000 Council bonds. Result, zero wait list. We have an 80% increase in childhood schools. But, Mrs. Pontón, what else have you taken the early childhood schools? And before you think about the comparison, look at your management data, just like the windmill. Mrs. Pontón, you, who is going to be a great policy in Greek nationalism, are you really going to continue to defend the propriety of your elders? Are you really going to say here in the House now that the BNG wind system is Mrs. Ana Pontón's great future project? Yes, ladies, the important thing is that everyone can talk even if he doesn't know what he's talking about. Because the company that just got quoted took zero megawatts in the wind competition. But it doesn't matter, Your Honor, it doesn't matter because that's what you miss. [[Interruptions.]] What's more, what's more, if we live in slogans! [[Murmurs.]] We live with slogans and phrases made! [[Applause]] The only wind competition that was declared illegal was the Bipartite wind competition. I'm seeing the faces of some socialist Members who were here at that time. I'm seeing the faces of the Socialist Members when the BNG members went out in press and told the president of the Union — that was indeed about the presidency of the Union — that if they wanted to hear about the adjudication of the wind, they had consulted the website of the Industry Council. Mrs. Pontón, don't follow you for the windy themes, neither for the milk subjects, nor for the themes of the fire, because it's really going to burn, and I don't mean it, I say it with absolute respect. As the Industry Council led, they also want to talk about innovation, and you give it exactly the same thing to talk about innovation. They want to talk about milk, they want to talk about innovation. Well, look, let's talk about innovation, Mr. Leicega. Mr. Leicega also spoke of innovation, Your Honor. If you don't mind, I'll tell you both. Thank you. So, look, speaking of innovation — which is the opposite of cocoa — the Strategy for Intelligent Specialization that the European Commissioner came here to present is EUR 907 million in innovation projects, with a public project of EUR 540 million. Expenditure on R & D in Galicia grew by 4% between 2013 and 2015, by 4%. We are the fifth largest autonomous community, yes, Mr. Leicega. You, who like numbers, will see that we are the fifth autonomous community of greatest growth in R & D from a private point of view. And from the public point of view, between 2013 and 2015 we are the second largest growth, the second! Mr. Leicega, please let me know that I have no interest in making a mistake, I can assure you, none. I have no interest in misbehaving, among other things, because you know I have no interest in you being mistaken. In innovative public procurement we are nothing more and nothing less than 40% of Spain's total. Innovative public purchase, EUR 112 million, of the 293 invested at the state level. And in the period 2014-2020 we will invest 100 million euros in innovative public procurement. I'm not saying, Mr. Leicega, that in the years before 2013 we'll be down at R+D+i. I'm not saying. But what I think is right to say is that in 2013, in 2014 and 2015 we are growing above the Spanish average in an important way. Finally, Mrs Pontón — I am sorry for this degree of innovation — you also have to talk about dependency, because the subject matter of dependency led them to vice-presidency. Well, with all due respect, because they certainly did everything they could, but there were 14,000 and now there are 50,000. You had 2 billion more, we have 1.5 billion less, with the current budget, and we're serving 52,000 dependents, and you paid 14,000. I suppose Galicia deserves recognition, and I think it deserves, of course, a minimum of respect. The objective of the legislation is 60,000. Today I compromise here that, if the state budgets are approved, that goal of legislation will be achieved in the second period of legislation, in the second year, in the year 2018, and that is of course to be above average in the percentage of attention to dependence on Spain. We have three times as many dependents as we are treated, we have more than twice as much in the ratio of care, from 36% to 75%, and we have people who receive attention through professional services 36 points more, from 41 to 77. [[Applause]] I honestly believe, Mrs. Pontón, that because of the fact that BNG carries things and is very proud of them, that he does not talk to me practically about the things that the Socialist Party was leading... I think you should review those matters. You talk about separation in classes of children, and if we are now doing something against any democratic approach simply by doing what you did when you were in the government, which was to keep these concerts. Yes, Your Honor, yes, the four years have held the concerts, all of them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in fact, there are big mayors in Galicia who go through these centers and attend all their parties. Yes, yes. Ask yourself in the upstairs seats, you'll see how they say yes. [[Applause]] Mrs Pontón, you ask — or you say, I do not know — whether the degree of budget execution of aid to gender violence is 34%. Your Honor, last year the degree of execution of this kind of aid was 98%, and we're going to execute all those that are requested. We have 73% right now, twice as much as you say. But if there are more requests, we have to expand our credit to assist them; that is why I want to reassure them about this commitment. Finally, Mrs. Pontón, you who are interested in Galicia, says that Galicia is getting worse and worse. You mustn't be confused about how a party is with how the country is, it's different things. I say, from the point of view of convergence with Spain, we are in the best position since there are statistics. In 2008 the per capita GDP of Galicia was 87.4 % of the Spanish average, and in 2016 it was 89.1%. Mr. Leicega, despite the crisis, despite the fact that we have no project, despite the fact that we have no economic policy, despite the fact that we do everything wrong, it turns out that in terms of convergence we are at the best time in our economic history. Your Honor, it's too bad we don't do it right! [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Speaking of emigration, another of the major advertisements, Galicia was in 2016 the autonomous community with a lower rate of migrants from Spain. The exits of Galicia accounted for 0,8 % of the total population compared to 1,5 % of the average of Spain. Galicia is also the community where there are fewer young people in proportion to this age population, 16 to 34 years old; 2.3 % compared to 3.3 % of Spain's average. But the migration balance accumulated since we arrived in the Government, in full economic downturn, since 2009, is positive. If we took all the people who went out and the people who came in, twenty-500 more people came in than they went out. These data I'm giving here suppose, ladies and gentlemen, that the subject of emigration... we're serious, because otherwise, it's impossible to understand at all, Mr. Leicega. These are the total data, pick them up as you like. If you want to take children under 30, if you want to take the entire population, if you want to take the year 2016, or you want to take the period from 2009 to 2016. Take what you consider appropriate, but let's not keep manipulating the figures, because if you don't, gentlemen, no one will believe us. That's probably what you're trying to do. Let them say what they want and I try to bring the figures here, so people don't really know what's going on. But when we make the speech and are in the Journal of Sessions, I ask you to have some respect for the figures of emigration, because otherwise, ladies, it's not fair. From 2009 to 2016 they emigrated, left Galicia, 237,000 people, and entered Galicia 257,000. Net positive balance: 20,500. And when we took the population between 16 and 34 years old, they left Galicia 101,500 and entered 102.253. Positive balance: 701. So, ladies and gentlemen, why are we arguing on the basis of cliffs on an ongoing basis? That is why, Mrs Pontón, I fully respect your proposals, but allow me to say that you cannot agree with them because most of your proposals are distorted and because most of your proposals are not concrete from the point of view of reality. I don't know the proposal BNG is going to make in relation to self-government, I don't know it, I don't know what he's going to do, we'll see what he's doing. Yes, Your Honor, what you said today in connection with this matter. You said you're against the Constitution, against the current Statute, against the king, and against Pedro Sanchez. Naturally, that doesn't seem to you to approach positions. But he said he agrees with Pedro Sánchez because Pedro Sánchez accepted that there are three nations in Spain, at least three nations, he said. [[Laughter]] Literally he said, at least, but he added "nation, but without nationalism.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Mrs. Pontón, I don't know if you're very interested in this model. Because if Mr. Pedro Sánchez's model is that there are nations but without nationalism, I don't know you, Your Honor, where he will remain in that model. [[Laughter]] In any case, if there is any proposal, Mrs Pontón, of course we would be interested to meet her, especially if the proposal is to reform what is there but to comply with what is there, accepting what is there. And from what there is, look for methods of reform and enlargement in your case. And of course, Mrs. Pontón, at the right time, uh!, at the right time. Not by running sooner if it comes first, but by running better. Mr. Leicega, with all due respect, you told me this was a year lost after the election. I really don't know what you meant, I tell you with absolute cordiality. Is it a lost year for whom, Mr. Leicega? For whom? We have humbly been working this year. I know that when we lowered the succession tax in Galicia it was absolutely unfair, but now that they drop it in Andalusia it's absolutely progressive. But we're already used to that. He says you can't have a job at the board and a job at the party. Well, Mr. Leicega, I don't know exactly what that means within your party, but speaking of Mr. Rodríguez Miranda, who is the Secretary General of Emigration, who carried immigration issues in the party, do you think that's wrong? Home!, what is surprising to us is that in the history of Spanish diplomacy for the first time there was an unembassed ambassador for immigration affairs was the former Secretary General of the Socialist Party of Galicia. That does seem surprising to us! Yes, check the seats and they'll tell you the name, Mr. Cortizo. He wasn't the Secretary General of the PSdEG... the sources consulted believe it isn't... that they say exactly what it was, what I do know is that he was nothing but an ambassador for unembassed emigration. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, do you sometimes have to think things out before you tell them? No doubt, that without getting into the way of hand checks being distributed when you were a spokesman for the Socialist Party in Bos Aires. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Costule's stopping it. [[Protests.]] Yes, yes. No, you're not, in no way. Mr. Leicega, I have great respect for you. I'm saying that when I was a PSOE spokesperson, there were charges from the Socialist Party that distributed cheques in hand in Bos Aires. Look at the hemero library. And the president of the board then had to stop that post. Don't worry, Mr. Leicega, I have good memory. He was on the opposition scene. Mr. Leicega, you said we don't have an economic model, we don't have an industrial model, we don't have a model for primary sectors, we don't have a model for industry... We found a Galicia that destroyed 50,000 jobs in the last year, and now we've grown more than 19,000 jobs in Social Security affiliates. September data. We found a Galicia where exports fell by 20% and now we have export records in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, and we're about to achieve it by 2017. We reached a Galicia where the industrial production index fell by 3.8%, and now it turns out that the orders are above 9%. We arrived at a Galicia where the sales index of trade dropped by 3.8%, and now it's rising by 2.5%. You also said that we didn't have a parliamentary calendar and that we only carried a bill sent to the House. They are four, Mr. Leicega: the Budget Act, the Tax Law, the Extraordinary Credit Act and the Law on the Protection and Welfare of Galician Pets. It's four. Yes, that doesn't seem like... the Budget Law, as it doesn't have to be applied to other municipalities, because it's a minor matter. [[Murmurs.]] That's a minor matter. [[Applause]] What I liked most about the approach to the Socialist Party at this new stage was to listen with motivation why you voted not after accepting 80% of the amendments to the Law on the Protection and Welfare of Pets in Galicia. They said they were against the tourdas. Ladies and gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, but are you really against the tourdas ruling in Seville, ruling in Mérida and ruling in Toledo? Who do you want to fool? [[Laughter]] You think the Greeks are fools, that the Socialist Party is against the bullies! But do you really believe that we are willing to accept this proposal? [[Applause]] Well nothing, Your Honor, of course it is! that is to have a cohesive project. No doubt we learn things every day. [[Laughter]] Look, let us refer to Parliament, Mr Leicea, the Ports Act, the Public Shows Act and the Business Implementation Act. He's got a chance to approve it. We'd like to approve it with you because we'd go faster. That's three of them. We've been seven. There are seven laws in this Parliament, and we're going to send another sweeter. If you like, I'll give you the data, but if you're interested, I'll give it to you personally. Mr. Leicega, the only time in the history of the autonomous community that we have agreed to the director of Radio-Television Galega was in the legislation of 2009. In 2009 we agreed with the director, and then it turns out that what happened happened, and it turns out that the people with whom I agreed the director of the Galician Radio Elevision of the Socialist Party were changing, and then the ones we agreed ceased to be and came another, and then another came from that. And now it turns out we don't know who's coming. And the question is, what do I have to do? To deal with each of you every year the director of Radio-Televisión Galega or professionalize Radio-Televisión Galega, which is Spain's largest autonomous audience channel? Don't you think, Your Honor, that this is more appropriate than constantly changing depending on the proposal? [[Applause]] We have established a professional statute, and it is solely up to the Board of Directors of the CRTVG to establish the guiding principles of programming, the creation of the professional statute. He has adopted the rules for the insertion of advertising into the Greek public media. That CRTVG that you don't like has a framework mandate, an annual business plan, an approved budget every year, and by the way, without deficit, and a general corporate action plan until 2019, published on the transparency portal. Mr. Leicega, I'm not going to tell you what that CRTVG negotiation was, and what I was meant to do, because I think that's not to respect CRTVG or CRTVG journalists. That's why I think we should at least say: look, you've changed your mind and now you don't like the director who agreed. I agree. But don't tell me that the manager hasn't been agreed because I can't honestly admit it, Mr. Leicega, because it's fake. Let's go concretely, ladies and gentlemen. To say that we have no social model the truth is that it's unfair, because at this moment there are more public social services than at any time in Galicia's history. To say, ladies and gentlemen, we don't support childhood or the income of social integration is childish, when there's no waiting list in the board at the moment to collect income from social integration. To say, as some spokespersons have said, that we are in a situation of neglect of energy poverty is simply false because the autonomous community that is attending the electric ticket is Galicia; because the autonomous community that is looking for housing for people who have problems of defiance is the Autonomous Community of Galicia. That's right, without any help from any council of the cities of Greece. That's right, without any. Since it's logical, Mr. Leicega, I don't think it's fair that reference, and that's why I ask that it be implemented and that it be revised again. Do you think it's bad that quotas have risen by 40% since 2012 in the field of fishing? Do you think that since 2016 the sales volume had risen by 20%, 76 million extras in lengths, finding 500 million euros in value? The discharge in length, 500 million euros; the best figure in the last 20 years. There are 8 million square meters of shellfish area recovered, and we have to recover 10 million more by 2020. The siege increased the volume of downloads by more than 50%, and the economic value by 15%. Just like in the field. You say the wine is bad, the chestnuts are bad, the milk is bad. From milk I think I've responded. But does the increase in 64% of your wine exports really sound like little to you? Does the chestnut harvest, regardless of the difficulties we have from the point of view of chestnuts, seem little to you in spite of the difficulties in the trees and the difficulties we are having from the point of view of all the pathogens that are invading them? You don't think so? New laws to improve the protection of agriculture: the Law of improvement of agricultural structure and the Law of mountains. We pay less taxes on the Galician agriturismo than in any other agriturismo in Spain. It increases support for the modernization and incorporation of young people; more than 1,100 in the modernization of farms. We improve quality and road infrastructure, which said we didn't do it; 36 million euros in rural road infrastructure. I don't think it's reasonable to say that the wine sector, which increases between 2011 and 2016 by 8.8% the production and 68% the volume exported, seems wrong to you. Or that we are currently in the largest dairy production of Galician history, 366,000 tons, 16.4% more than in the last six years, and at a price of over 30 cents per litre. We tripled production in organic agriculture and the joint invoicing of the wood industry grew by more than 11% in 2015. Are we sure we can do more? Sure. But employment in the primary sector has increased by 12% in 2016, and in the coming year we have taken 3,298 more affiliates in the primary sector — in the agriculture sector, exactly. That's why, Mr. Leicega, I don't think it's fair what you're asking us from the point of view that we don't have a model, because we really do have a model. It may be questionable, but the question of whether we are better than we were, Mr. Leicega, in all parameters the answer is yes. You say we don't have industrial projects either. In the automobile, 3,000 million euros and ten years of work. In the naval, after the tax lease, we have a contract chain of more than 2,300 million euros. In Navantia, Mr Leiceaga, would you agree to unlock a contract for Navantia in Parliament? Would you agree to unlock it? We can talk about that. You won't support the budget. If there is no budget, there will be no budget appropriations. But can we unlock an agreement for Navantia, enable a credit for Navantia and thus be able to resume the workload in Navantia, in addition to what you have right now? Mr. Leicega, this is quite a reasonable proposal. You said we've been behind the AVE for eight years. What date do you mean? I'm asking. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because, if you're referring to what we agreed to with a socialist minister, the only one who was serious about AVE and Galicia was 2015. So, Your Honor, I don't know exactly. It is true that there is a socialist minister in 1988 who said that AVE would arrive in Galicia in 1993. We're not going to appoint the minister because we all know who he is. So for the sake of some socialist minister, the AVE was committed in the 20th century. [[Applause]] I'm not surprised, Your Honor, that you've been missing the record of the fact that we haven't established the AVE. There are 1,100 million euros of investment in hydraulic infrastructure; 1,100 million euros. Half of the Greeks have a new purification system, 50% of the population; 600,000 of the Greeks have a new water supply system; and we're improving at seven points the quality of the water masses in our autonomous community. I don't think it's an inadequate balance for a government that had 2,000 million euros less every year. We've made a great effort: ask you in Ourense, ask you in Vigo, ask for the comprehensive sanitation of Ferrol's river, ask for the debugger of Bens. Do we have to continue? Of course. A submarine emissary in Praceres, 15 million euros; the start of the execution of the new Rianxo EDAR, committed and approved, 14 million euros; the start of the execution of the new Santiago EDAR, committed to financing, 60 million euros; the start of the execution of the Burela EDAR, 8 million euros; the start of the execution — at last — in Malata, in Ferrol — after putting us in line with the Council—, 7 million euros; phase II and III of the sanitation of the Pontedeume River, 4 million euros; the drafting of the project of the new Foz EDAR, 8 million euros. Of course, Your Honor, we continue to do works, and you have no doubt that we will continue to do them. With the commitment, since the beginning of the legislation, 3,628 companies have been created in Galicia. That's divided by the number of days, there are 12 companies created every day and 28,500 new members of Social Security since the legislation began. Some might look a little bit like that, but I think they should know about this data. And that's why I'm surprised, Mr. Leicega — you're usually quite careful with the data — that in this case it wasn't how careful you used to be. He says that in education we go well, that teachers are good, but nevertheless in plurilingualism we go wrong. Is it because English teachers are bad and the rest are good? I don't know! But if education goes well, school failure has fallen in a historical way, we're above all in knowledge in the OECD Pisa Report in Spain, and it turns out that the problem is with English teachers and 500 conversational assistants. Imagine the problem we had with English when there was no assistant in conversation! Health. Mr. Leicega, if you want to talk about health, you will understand that you will always find me in favor. Always in favor. You have here a very interesting document which is Galicia's Health Management Proposal. I suppose you handle this document because it's your proposal: Galician Health Management Proposal, October 2008. Allow me, Your Honor, to speak only of a sheet of this document which remains at the President's disposal. I'm saying this because now that the Socialist Party's campaign is going to end, you don't need to fool yourself anymore in the health areas. Now the campaign is over, and each one, naturally, will share good luck. [[Applause]] But I think the people of the boat, the people of the Navy, the people of the Salnès, the people of Monforte, the people of Verín, the people of Cee, need to know the truth. The truth is that you were proposing seven health areas — the same as you are now — text reading: Health Area of the Coruña: Coruña hospital and Junqueira hospital. [[Murmurs.]] Ferrol Health Area: Ferrol Health Area and Coastal Health Area. Gentlemen of Lugo, you know Burela's going to Ferrol. Turns out Burela's can't go to Lugo, but they had to go to Ferrol. Proposal of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party documented in 2008. Health area of Ourense: Ourense, Verín and Valdeorras; correct. [[Applause]] Health area of Pontevedra: Pontevedra and O Salnes. [[Murmurs.]] The health area of Vigo: Vigo. Total, seven areas. There's a big difference. We Burela didn't send them to Ferrol. [[Murmurs.]] So, Mr. Leicega, now that the campaign is over, is it really worth still poisoning people with health care? But what do you want to make? [[Murmurs.]] May hospitals continue to maintain the services they have? We've got a deal! May hospitals continue with plans for reform and enlargement? We've got a deal! That professionals can move all over the area? Deals! If that's what we want, Mr. Leicega. We've been working like this. You guys already wanted to do this in 2008 and we've been working like this since 2010. There's no novelty, therefore, for us to fool people, if people eventually realize everything and people know perfectly well that it's not worth being deceived? Finished, Mr. Leicega. I'm also worried about northern Portugal, of course, yes! but we said before we don't want Galicia to be a low cost place from a wage point of view. Of course, indeed, so we have to compete with higher wages. There is a difference in wage costs that is undeniable, there is a difference in higher European incentives because they have below 75% of European average income and they have 10 points more than European incentives. We have to compete, and we propose to compromise the law of business implementation. Look, I have here the table, which is at your disposal, of Portugal's wages. In Portugal's salary table, the difference in the average cost per person per year is 53% lower in Portugal if we compare it with equivalent agreements here. In metal, 50% less salary in Portugal; in offices and offices, 54% less; in trade, 56%; in transport, 53%... i.e. the average wage cost is 53% less in Portugal than here; we have to compete in this, Mr. Leicega. And the approach to social security by companies is 7.2% less in Portugal than here. We have to compete with this. What are we asked? What do we propose a drop of all wages in Galicia? Don't you, Mr. Leicega? So why don't we agree to actively push Galicia? Why don't we agree that, if the Board lowers its taxes, they are lowered by the Greek municipalities as well? Why don't we agree, Mr. Leicega? I'm in favor, why don't you want to make that law? I don't understand exactly what the proposal is, but of course we're going to keep working because that's our goal. Mr. Leicega, I agree with you that if in Spain you want to modify the territorial organization, that's why you need a referendum. And we need a referendum where we all vote. Absolutely agree. Neither amends nor scraps on that proposal; totally agrees. And now you rescue the Statutory Reform Commission. Let's see exactly what the leaders of the Socialist Party say about this matter and we can talk about it, if you like. That's right, do you think it's the best time to do it? Yeah? Do you think this is the best time? That's what I think we should talk about, too, if this is the best time to propose a statistical reform for Galicia. I remember that when it was fashionable to modify all the statutes of autonomy, all the autonomous communities were modified except two, Basquedi and us. How did it go to the others and how did it go to Euskadi and us? The truth is, Mr. Leicega, history doesn't come to believe that those clauses we signed and that "I will approve what comes from Parliament" were good for Catalonia or Spain. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, in Galicia, Your Honor, we have kept our senses, which is quite important. I know we're Galicians and in Catalonia they were Catalanists too. They stopped being Catalanists and became nationalists. And now they've stopped being nationalists and become independent. If you want Catalanism, come here, because Catalanism in Galicia is called Galeguism. [[Murmurs.]] That's why we could reach that agreement, to move forward constantly. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I'm done. I cannot answer such a fraternal and kind speech by the spokesman of En Marea. I'm not able because I took notes, but, of course, I had to point out: separatism, mobile coverage, emoticons, qualifiers, bedbugs in the boat... If you want to be serious, this is a serious gallery, this is not a rally. This isn't coming here and talking to colleagues, Mr. Villares, this is a serious matter. So, if you're kidding Parliament, what happens to you is that every time in your party, you're more of a joke. And if you're kidding Justice, what happens to you is that Justice is more and more of a joke. Because, as the spokesperson for the majority party in a brilliant way said, what you came here to talk about is that the laws are unfair and that you are in politics to make just laws, is, of course, to have big letters in your biography. [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You come to politics to do justice and get out of Justice to cease injustice. That's the summary summary. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, when you said judgments on the basis of unfair laws like that of rejection, why did you say them? [[Murmurs.]] Why did you send the police... to get the people who'd got the floor out of the house? [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Why? [[Murmurs.]] Does it turn out that the police are now to blame for carrying out a judge's sentence? Is that the problem? Look, it's not easy to take it seriously. And the problem is, by not taking anyone seriously, it's very difficult to make a contradictory speech. If you don't care. You're talking about not running the budget: 100.9%, it doesn't matter. He says there's more youth unemployment; less youth unemployment than when we get to the government and less youth unemployment than the average of Spain. He says we don't do anything about the defiances. No, just every 4.5 days a home. He's made it available for you. He says the General Council of Judiciary increases — according to the General Council's statistics — evictions in Galicia. We have just seen the data: the General Council of the Judiciary says that in 2016, 39% of the evictions in Galicia fell. He invents his own figure from the General Council of the Judiciary! [[Murmurs.]] So exactly what do we have to take seriously in this matter? And finally, he's trying to give us public debt lessons. Mr. Leicega, Mrs. Pontón, it turns out that In Marea is concerned about the public debt. Galicia is the autonomous community in which public debt has been reduced since 2008. Galicia is now among the less indebted autonomous communities in Spain, and when I arrived it was the fourth most indebted to Spain in relation to GDP. Now we're the fourth with less debt from Spain. If we had the average debt of the rest of the autonomous communities, we would have 3500 million euros more debt. And then tell me we don't spend the money and we have to raise the debt. The economic speech of Mr. Spokesman of En Marea really does not just last an afternoon, as a socialist minister would say. You pass some data, you read it, and it's so loud. And then he comes here to teach lessons in debt, economics, justice, ethics, politics, democracy. It's at least surprising. He says I was a... I don't know what he told me. I'm sure a nice thing, as is natural. But I was an unwise person talking about the blow. [[Laughter]] Your Honor, if you would like to remind me of what you said before the motion of censure in Sanxexo. That was a motion of censure. So in Sanxenxo, for ruling the party that wins the elections, he's a hit man. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, we're not taking it seriously any further. We're not taking your group seriously anymore. It's just that we're not taking it seriously, and that's a problem. It's a serious problem, because, as you can imagine, I'd like to be able to talk to you about something. I wish I could talk to you about something. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u41	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u42	...because, obviously, a minimum of speech should be given to you, but I'm not able to realise exactly what you want to talk about, except, as is logical, an amendment to the whole. You come here as a great judge to say that all the legislate is unfair. You had to abandon Justice to make justice in the Legislative Power. And all his comrades are saying manifestly unfair judgments in the morning and afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u43	Quiet, quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u44	Well, they say I talked about Catalonia. The same ones who use their mayoral positions to demand referendums of independence in Catalonia, the Tides, say that I spoke a lot about Catalonia. The same ones who are going to ask for the referendum, the three tenors — mayor of Santiago said... that they will talk about independence there, it turns out that they can talk about independence and the humble president of the Galician board cannot talk about Galicia and what Galicia plays in the state of autonomy. [[Applause]] But what kind of democracy do you want that makes a good vote like Sunday? They can disagree, they can protest, they can complain, they can say they want to vote, they want to vote with guarantees, but really what kind of democracy do they want those who give a good vote that is really an absolute puking, without control, without guarantees. Is that the prelude to the antidemocratic regime of unique thought in Catalonia that you support? They have gone through all the laws: the Constitution, the Status and the Law themselves which they have antidemocraticly passed in the Catalan Parliament. And although that referendum has been broken and invalidated, now they give that result and tell us that look!, in the coming hours, the unilateral independence of Catalonia will be declared. And you come here to defend that posture. You, as a German, come here to defend this political practice. It's not true that we want to vote, because what they really want is an alibi against their illegalities. They don't care what people think. If they really were to vote for the Catalans, they would be talking today that they didn't let them vote and that they want to reconvene a referendum to be able to vote. But no, they're agreeing that this result is the result that legitimizes nothing more and nothing less than a constituent period to consolidate and be born the Republic of Catalonia. Well, giving the result of that pucheirazo, we started a new regime in Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, I didn't like anything that happened on Sunday, I think you do. It should never have happened, because we should never get to that situation. This initial approach should never have been made by the independent vips, and less should still be continued after he was convicted as illegal by the judges, his former comrades, who have to pronounce unfair judgments. And worst of all, you should never have manipulated the legitimate feeling of one part of the population to confront the other. Really, what is it supposed to be? It is intended that the Catalan independentist class will remain powerless forever. What is meant is that the independent vips, which not only lied to Catalonia, but divided the people of Catalonia, use that people to achieve their ends. They don't want the best for their people, because a president who wants the best for his people can't divide his people. But they don't even want the best for those independent citizens who support them, because otherwise they wouldn't have used them as they are using them. They want the best, Mr. Villares, for them. Your goal is not a nation, it is to keep business. Their goal is to impose a single regime of thought. His goal is that the only guarantee is that they continue to send to Catalonia and considering that Catalonia is a cork of independentists. It's a business, why? To live in power. And independence is an alibi to remain in power, and I think in a democratic parliament we have to say this so that the people know our position. Mr. Villares, what is yours? Turns out I'm irresponsible to say this. I keep it, that's my political thought, after thinking about it and after seeing as president of the Autonomous Community that every time the autonomous communities come together to concretely, modify, reform, any matter, Catalonia doesn't come. Why? Because he thinks we're not up to it, because we're people of the second century, because it turns out that only those politicians are politicians of the first century, and we're politicians of the second century. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, your ex-companies at the Central Electoral Board have just signed the agreement unanimously today. I remind you that there are eight magistrates of the Supreme Court, not appointed by the Government, but appointed by insulatement at the General Council of the Judiciary. I remind you that the president was the head of the Supreme Court, but he was also the general prosecutor of the state at the time of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. I will read very systematically or that says, it is very illustrative: "Last October 1, 2017 has not taken place in Catalonia any process that can be considered as a referendum in any of the modalities provided by the legal order, nor by the subject that called it — incompetent — nor by the way in which it has done so — in violation of firm decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia — nor by its object — unconstitutional — nor by the notorious absence of any guarantee of objectivity and transparency in its development, scrutiny and control." Is this unfair, Mr. Villares? Are you the one who comes here to Parliament? Do you come here to Parliament saying that these gentlemen are the only ones who say they are unfair judgments? Is it true that you came here to change all this because you have now discovered the world?, because since you left the toga you really discovered Galicia? But look, we've been in Galicia for a long time now, and our parents and grandparents have been taking a lot longer now, and we don't agree that you come here as a savior messiah of anything... you're welcome, Mr. Villares, you're welcome! [[Laughter]] You're welcome! [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, but why don't we look at Galicia? We look at Galicia and we're going to find a pride of belonging, of our own identity, but also a respect for coexistence. We look at Galicia and we're going to find diversity, and diversity is compatible with democracy, it's compatible with laws, the Constitution and the Statute, regardless of whether there are people who don't like it. We look at Galicia and you'll see a capable people; a people able to cope with problems and a people able to get out of the biggest economic crises we've experienced in the last 20 years. We look at Galicia and they'll find education; education that's missing sometimes here, Mr. Villares. We look at Galicia and you'll find an example, a guide and a guide. Here in this Parliament there are nationalists, the question is where are nationalists from? I'm convinced that some wanted it to happen in Galicia what's happening right now in Catalonia, and that's what it's like to want an ideology and not want Galicia! Leave that complex of absurd inferiority. Look at Galicia and we're proud of what our people do, what we have to serve. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks and the Greeks bring us to new challenges. The Union will be next to it, sometimes failing, being insufficient others and achieving it in some cases. What I can assure you is that we will continue to work here for the country, we will continue to defend Galicia, and you will know where they want to be. We will continue to serve Galicia because it is our commitment, our vocation and our desire. That's why every time some political representative says Galicia steals something from you, you'll understand that an autonomous president with a minimum of dignity has to report. When one believes that it is above the autonomous presidents, when it turns out that he has half the electoral support that the President of the Galician Union has in that autonomous community, the least he could do is talk to them about the others. And when one is president of an autonomous community when he didn't even appear to be president of the autonomous community, when he was number 3 on the Girona list, and when it turns out that that president of that autonomous community didn't elect him either his party or the Junts pe Yes coalition, but instead he was elected by CUP, of course, Mr. Villares, with regard to the people of Catalonia, absolute; working for coexistence with our Catalan compatriots, totally; now, Mr. Villares, to have them with respect to those who break the rules and have them with respect to the business of Catalan nationalism, you yourself, Galicia, don't. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u45	Replica from parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, I come from a village, educated with great effort by my parents, who have taught me some values that I think are important... as I told them, that I am from a village, that my parents, my grandmother, my grandfather, have educated me in values that I thank them very much because they are the values of effort, of respect for others, of respect for the truth, today the truth I do not recognize that Pearls boy. [[Murmurs.]] You came here... yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] You came here right now, in an absolute exercise of demagogy, to miss what we don't think and what we don't think like you, and with a paternalism with the country that really doesn't represent the Galician that exists or the Galician that we want. [[Applause]] I'm sorry you have to resort to manipulating my words. I know that you are the king of manipulation, in fact we have the clearest example in the public media in our country, which you have kidnapped, converted into your electoral office. It exceeds Esperanza Aguirre in manipulation. [[Applause]] But look... yeah, I respect professionals a lot. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes. And I'm actually in solidarity with them because they're under enormous political pressure to put on the headlines that interest the People's Party. [[Applause]] Huge, Mr. Feijó! Huge! [[Murmurs.]] All you have to do is watch TVG to know. Look, what I literally said is that you did, before and now at the end of this speech, precisely following the extreme right and an irresponsible speech where you see it through every dialogue, at a time when the solution can only be democracy; and I keep it, Mr. Feijóo: you are an absolutely irresponsible one. And look, I have not failed to respect any German or Greek, because I respect them very much, as with the Basques, the Catalans, the Spaniards, the French and the English. I believe that respect is the basis on which a better society and a democratic society can be built. But I also ask you to respect the Greeks who don't think... that don't give him the reason. Because he told us here that, as we have fewer votes, we can't qualify most; but what happens, there are most minorities in Galicia? We are all Welsh and we all have a right to respect and to think. [[Applause]] And I don't come here to say what I want; I come here to exercise freedom of expression, which is a fundamental right, which, by the way, has cost a lot of people their lives; among some of them, some of the colleagues in my organization who have been fighting against franchiseism, while people who today are members of the People's Party were comfortably installed in that regime. That, Mr. Feijóo, is the reality. And look, I didn't tell you your problem is... I did not criticise or vote people or anything like it; I only tell them — and I will see it, if not, in the reply and arguments that you use repeatedly! — that, when there is an argument and they don't give them the reason, all they serve is the votes; and the votes what they do is that they allow you to be ruling and that we are in the opposition, but they don't give you the reason at all and at some point — if democracy is dialogue, Mr Feijóo — you won't be right. Or are you -- I don't know -- the King of the Celt Olympus and you're always right? I don't know, Mr. Feijóo, as you can see; but, of course, I think a little humility in politics would be very good for you, Mr. Feijóo, because the people of this country are humble and hardworking people. [[Applause]] Look, I'd love to be able to visit the Blue Chicken in Sarria with you, but we have a problem, there's no problem. Do you plan on building it? I assure you that I will go to that opening if you undertake to include it. And look, don't tell me that Iberdrola and the People's Party have no ties; that they gave him 2,200 megawatts the People's Party governments! Please, Mr. Feijó! But don't tell me that Mr. Iberdrola's megawatts-- who gave them? Oh, not the People's Party! Didn't you make those adjudications to the People's Party, you're not bound to the PP? Broken or sheep? Please, Mr. Feijóo, let us not miss this. And, look, I always raise the same arguments and, of course, it's a little unfair to reality. You tell us about state investments. I remember when you said that 2,000 million euros were an aggravating to Galicia and, however, now, as Mr. Rajoy, his beloved leader, 924 million are "the cure." [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, this is your mirror, your absolute majority, the biggest cut in state investments of this century. At the same time, I insist that Euskadi get more funds, he gets more than 4 billion euros for Mr. Rajoy's government. What's your submission worth? Why is it worth so much service to the central government if, in the end, what the state does is to continuously discriminate against our country? And I don't know if in the reply you can tell us what happened to this committee of control — what you were going to do — of execution: who is in this commission, who are you and who else?, how many times have you met?, does that commission exist or is another one of those holders of a day, unique and exclusively? Because you think that with headlines the problems of this country are solved. [[Applause]] And, look, dependency: there are 17,000 dependents who have the right to dependency and whom you've already told them you're not going to take care of them all. The problem is economic, the state owes itself to the law of dependency with Galicia. Will you defend the interests of dependent people or will you remain a faithful servant of Montoro's interests? Clear this up, Mr. Feijó, because I think it's very important. And there's another issue, which, at last, you — who tells us it's the right thing to do with democracy and transparency — doesn't explain it to us, and it's this picture. Yes, yes, this picture, Mr. Feijó. Why did you hide a meeting with the private health lobby from the Greeks and the Greeks? And why, after this meeting, do we have the result that we will derive 100 million euros from public health to give it to private health? The Greeks and the Greeks deserve an explanation of these photos, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] Your photo album, actually, is a real mine. And, look, you've been looking at those who are worse all the time for eight years. You never look at those who are better, and that's how it's impossible for this country to move forward. And, of course, he invented a reality, because it's functional to him for his headlines, but we have very serious problems. How can you say that with your policies self-government and self-government are better than ever and that Galicia is the best place to undertake? But don't you know that the number of autonomouss in our country is falling? You don't know that there are many self-sufficient and autonomous who are false self-sufficient, who are hiding precariousness? You don't know that the problem they have today, basically, those workers who have a company, a business that has to take forward, is that the bill of credit is closed? And what do you offer them? Give the bank 50,000 million? For we believe that we have to bet that, certainly, the savings in Greece are no longer polished and that it is used to develop our territory. [[Applause]] And I think, when we're seeing the increase in the number of homes that say they can't stop the heating, you can't come here to tell us that with your electric ticket the problems are solved, because it's a lack of respect to those Welsh people who go through it bad, that they keep going through it wrong. But you haven't answered me to a question that I consider to be central right now. He likes the People's Party or not, this regime is at a time when everything has moved and nothing will be the same, and that debate is open. And in that debate we see... that Feijóo is passing: Feijóo is not interested in the most important debate that will be opened in the coming years and that will decide whether Galicia goes up on the nation's train or whether Galicia goes down on the region's train; and that means less ability to solve the problems that people in this country have. Because, look, there's a dogma that you, in this unique thought that triggers, they tell us, and is that this state guarantees equality; and I ask the people who look at us: do we really have equality in wages? I think not; the Greeks and the Greeks, despite working longer hours, have the lowest wages. Do we really have equality in pensions? There are people who have worked their entire lives and who have a pension that doesn't reach the minimum inter-professional salary, a lot; by the way, you can go up non-contributory pensions, we're going to propose you to one of the motions for a resolution. But do you really believe that the Greeks and the Greeks have the same railway services as those who have enjoyed other territories for decades? Do you think that's the way to achieve equality, when we're seeing that in this country people have to emigrate, we have very low wages and there's a problem? Because, certainly, during the crisis poverty has grown; but it's also growing now that you're telling us about recovery. And so we'll have to do something to make people have better opportunities! And what's not a solution is to say we haven't changed anything. Or what can't be an alternative is -- I don't know if it's your position -- that gives the self-government, the real decision-making capacity that Galicia has about its problems. I'm convinced that no, and I'm absolutely convinced that either we have real capacity to decide on those matters that affect us, that affect the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks, or, really, we're not going to be able to change an inertia in which we see that Galicia is not moving in that direction in which you tell us, but that there really are structural problems that continue to be maintained. We say it calmly, because in a democracy we can tell what we think without having to come the Holy Inquisition of Beijóo tell us that we can think or not. [[Applause]] We obviously defend that Galicia is a nation; but what I ask you, Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u48	... is: when this debate in the state is on the table, what are you going to defend? Are you going to defend Rajoy or are you going to defend Galicia? You're going to defend, that Galicia is a nation or you're going to say, "No, no; Galicia, regionality."? We see who the complex is, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u50	Good afternoon again. The truth is that I have a little strange feeling, because I find that — at last — all groups end up having, or almost all groups end up having a social democratic complaint, which I like to say so, because there is a certain convergence in the chamber: we quote Kennedy, Sweden, Norway, Portugal... All right, I think very well; but, further on, that indicates that there can be meeting points... [[Applause]] On the question of the project for Spain, in which I believe that neither insubmission nor immobility can be a solution to confront the new times, I make two proposals: I make a proposal to support from here the work of the Constitutional Reform Commission — which was recently created in Congress, at the initiative of the Socialist Group — which should be the point of commitment to face a solution, from within the system itself, of the demands of an important part, although I believe not a majority, of Catalan society. Because we have to look for a meeting point, there is no other way of dealing with this problem in democratic terms, as I said before, in order to be able to proceed to a referendum that allows us to vote for all, because that meeting point has to be a meeting point that takes into account the sensitivities that exist in Catalan society, but also in the rest of the autonomous Spanish communities. And for that, I think it's important that we agree here: a proposal that allows us to defend in that process the position of Galicia and the majority interests that relate to the sensibilities of our society. I don't think we should let space be occupied by proposals that are beyond the frame we have now. All federalisms are reformed and reformed every time, and ours should not be an exception. And ours also has the possibility of reform within itself: the reform of the Constitution is planned, the reform of our status is also foreseen. If we do not drive it now, even if it is — which is my proposal — to create common bases that allow us to face, once it is defined — if so — constitutional reform, which enables us to face a reform of the Statute, which is in accord with that new framework and which does not take a step back in the aspirations of Galicia... we are a historical nationality, it is so defined in our Statute, it is a constitutional forecast, which distinguishes between nationalities and regions. And initially, this distinction in the constitutional text had to do with the existence of very diverse preferences for political decentralization in the whole territory. And we were at the first level, at the nationality level. I think we should continue to be there, but it is also true that in Spain and Galicia there is a very strong equal drive, an equal drive that makes me not devise a solution that doesn't happen because we have the same per capita funding in the whole territory, that there are no more privileges. I believe that we can defend it and we should be able to articulate it in the Galician Parliament, and I see no other formula that activates this Statute Reform Commission, even if it is not initially to reach a complete text, but to a basis of reference that will guide our future action. That's why I make that proposal. In relation to other more internal issues, those you also referred to in a somewhat dispersed way, in your intervention, but which I have carefully listened to, I have to say that it is preferable not to fight against windmills, but to go to the center of other questions that are raised. Let's see, the law on public media reform... let's stop talking about what happened in 2009, that there was one... that is, what is the key to the matter? We agreed in 2011 — since there is little interest in it — a legislative project in which it was — no, no!, we can talk about it too. — contemplated, among other things, an election by this chamber of the company's director. Did you make that choice? We buy the law, it's just, it's very easy, it's the law. [[Applause]] What are we asking now? You also tell me that there is a document — which I will finally consult — of the year 2008, which says I don't know about health areas. But, look, the law that contemplates the health areas that are now, including those that you want to suppress, is the year 2008. And that was an approved law, among others, with my vote here; not with yours, with mine and you're telling me now that at the same time we wanted to do something else. [[Applause]] Man, let's be a little coherent and go to the bottom of the matter. What I'm asking you is that, instead of trying to push that bill, which goes against the very intense sensitivity of the population in these areas -- you're overestimating, I have to say, the ability of the Socialist Party to mobilize in these areas, it's more of a product, simply, of the concern and sensitivity that the population has in these health areas -- we withdraw the project, the preliminary draft, which is nothing more than a preliminary draft. And let's sit down and agree on the possibilities of complementing what's already in the comarcal hospitals today with new very demanding specialties, doing what you say you want to do, which is bringing health closer to the population. Let's agree on that, it's much simpler. And let's leave us with stories, that if we do something, there are ten or fifteen, which is useless and allows for better health care to the population. On the other hand, and in this same line, to see the convergence, let's talk about it. Why are we converging? So we converge basically because we're reducing our population, and we're reducing the weight of our population in relation to other areas. And you're talking to me about per capita GDP, per capita income, which is divided by the number of inhabitants. As we're less comparative, our per capita GDP is higher. And it's good that this is how it is. Of course it's very good that we're a little more prosperous than before. It's all right. But we're doing it through population adjustment, demographic adjustment, not because our economy grows more. [[Applause]] If we catch up from 2009 until now, the Greek economy has grown globally under the Spanish economy, and you know it. So, it's okay, it's okay, it's our GDP per capita. But we know that's the case. So what you yourself say is the serious problem of Galicia, which is the demographic problem -- so if you create an observatory -- so you take it from Fraga, and then you, making plans for the unsuccessful demographic revitalization -- we don't convert it now, we don't turn that failure into a success on the other side. Because then we don't know what letter to stay. Is it a success or is it a failure? What are we left with? Because clearly, as the population under 16 is substantially being reduced, the number of dependents under 16 is lower, and instead, it is growing the population at the age of work. But that's an effect that little by little will disappear, and then we're going to have a problem. Because that population is going to move to the population of more than 65 and we're going to have an inverted pyramid that's going to pose a huge problem. We also talk about AVE, if you want it, and here it's all much simpler than you do: that if there's delays, that if in 1993... it's much easier, it's much easier. What's happened in the last four years, since 2012? Mr. Rajoy and his government, have you managed to execute the figures that he had planned or was always at 40% of the levels of execution? With government in functions and not in functions, 40% always. This is what brings a cumulative delay of four years. You won't be able to reach AVE under the conditions that were planned — that is, 2.35 hours from Atlantic Galicia — until 2022, until 2022! Because you won't be able to do the Taboadela-Ourense plot before, 2022! We have to tell the people the truth. And, look, on the investment of Development, beyond what is stated in the budgets, do you know what was the adjudication in 2016 of the Group of Development — not the Ministry, but the Group of Development — for Galicia? It was 63 million euros, those were the adjudications in 2016 for Galicia, 63 million euros from the Development Group. That's the reality. So we can say other things, but this is what there is, and it's all pretty much simpler than having to discuss what happened ten years ago. Calls on the Joint Transfer Commission, once again, to propose AP-9. Because, look, I don't have enough time and I don't have unlimited time to be able to answer, but I made a proposal on the parliamentary group's performance in Congress. And tell me one thing: if you have the ability to decide what your deputies do in the Congress of Deputies, why didn't the AP-9 transfer be made? Why did Ana Pastor, Member of Parliament for Pontevedra, not obey him and voted what he had to vote for the transfer of AP-9? [[Applause]] And if not, what are you telling me? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u51	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u52	Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Feijóo, since Sunday, all Galicia knows you're obsessed. But don't be obsessed with me, that there are more important things, man! Look, you're confusing judicial power and legislative power. It's normal and I don't blame him for that, because the People's Party is used to putting up and removing judges when they get uncomfortable, as we could all hear in the ears of Operation Lezo, when Mr. Zaplana, Mr. Granados and other people from his party, from the high direction of his party, conspired to remove judges who were investigating the corruption of the People's Party. It's normal for you to confuse legislative power and judicial power! But it's okay, because we're here to nuance it... of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Home! Here we are to explain to you what every thing consists of. [[Applause]] Look, of course, unfair laws... They are not able to distinguish the sense of legality from the sense of justice, because it takes principles and values, and not everyone... for those who have no values and for those who have no principles, every law seems good to them. [[Murmurs.]] I gave you an example that seemed pretty easy to me: the 40,000 million gifted to the private bank while people were challenged for private debt. It was a pretty easy example. I'm going to make something easier for you, see if that's how I help you. Look, in the 1960s Rosa Parks, who was a black woman, went up to the United States on a bus and sat in a seat reserved for whites, breaking the law. You, if you were there, what would you do? Would you remove it from the seat reserved for whites because they were white and she was black? That law was the law, but was it a fair law? You, if you saw that lady there being dragged by the hair and pulled out of that seat, would you just look at that behavior? No, but how legal it was... To distinguish between what's legal and what's fair, you have to have values and you have to have principles. But you have them too, of course you have them. I don't put it in doubt, no one questions this House that you have values. That's why on February 8, 2009, you stated that the Historical Memory Act was unfair and perhaps unconstitutional. And he said this because it seemed unfair to him that certain people, because they were descendants of Frankish retaliations, had more facilities to access Spanish nationality. You see that the subject of frankism continues to catch them in their throats, in their heads and in many places, eh! It was easy to distinguish between what's legal and what's fair. And when you don't, the courts do it for you too. That's why they stated that what you said was illegal, the wind competition — since after it gave up by means of a law — from this place to an asset liability due to the deviation of power from the administration. 3 million euros had to be compensated, which we all paid. It's been commented here. In public debt we proposed, and we proposed again, to buy debt that is on the private market with the Financial Facility. Now you walk on that line, and we celebrate. We celebrated it four months ago. What's going on is that there's just about sweet enough that we've come to tell them that this was the way and you didn't want to admit it. We would have saved with these operations several hundred million euros that we cannot now spend on health care, education or pensions. You're wrong enough when you give him the papers, because in relation to per capita GDP, you come here all the way around saying you're getting closer to the Spanish average. It's approaching, but not because it's rising the German GDP, but because it's lowering the population. And as it's per capita and there's fewer inhabitants, because it gives it a higher ratio even though GDP doesn't go up. His absolute majority during this year has been as great as his political irrelevance, we must repeat it. Because Vigo was nodal port, and he was in favour of Huelva or Tenerife, because the People's Party did not allow it. Madrid's radials were rescued — they were broken. And that cost 4 billion euros, which didn't go to other things. We here ask not only for the transfer of AP-9, but also their ransom to the public and put in the service of citizenship. But as we contribute to Spain, but nothing else, that we have no right to anything because we have an absolute majority and therefore you keep ourselves meek, because there is nothing to do and we have to comply with it. From the European Atlantic corridor, there is a European Atlantic corridor that passes through Madrid but not through Galicia. And that's for Mr. Nuñez Feijóo's good management. The Constitution and the law, only when it suits you. That's why the application of the Historical Memory Law is an empty set in the Greek administration. That's why all the people who study today at the Virge dos Eye Institute of Lugo, or Lucus Augusti, can still see the Frankish emblems and the Franchise glass that presides the entrance to a public education center. Because you don't want to apply the Historical Memory Law and get out of front of the children and girls who every day go to school a symbol of genocide, a symbol of oppression, a symbol of a dictatorship, which began, by the way, with a coup d'état. [[Applause]] You have committed quite a few inaccuracies, not to say falsehoods — let's leave it inaccurateness — in relation, for example, to the account of people who emigrate or do not emigrate, or who are already emigration. Look, this is INE data from 2016: 20,000 people between 20 and 35 years of age. You do well to count. There are ways to choose one count or another. You simply select those who register or are not registered in consulates and are therefore given different numbers. But the INE gives you other figures that are quite plausible; at least they are official data. You see a good government and talk about budgets and talk about cities, and you always forget about Ourense, who has budgets without approval. He hasn't approved budgets since he governs his ex-counsel. He doesn't have any budgets or PXOM or anything. The province of Ourense is the city without law. Ah! by the way, I think he had a little problem with understanding when I talked about the boat's little ones. Look, the puppies are a few achesporins that are parasitising the chestnut trees and that's why the problems in the chestnut harvest come. You couldn't understand it or explain it, and that's why you, when you came here, said, "No, the chestnuts have a problem with the chestnuts... And Barco is a district in the province of Ourense, the district of Valdeorras It is the district of Valdeorras — the capital, The Barco — where you will delete an area of health and leave the comarcal hospital converted into a simple outpatient clinic [[Protests.]] [[Applause]] It was also spoken here before animals. Valuable animal welfare law, the one that saves the bulls from their application, as if they weren't animals that had the same dignity as the rest of the animals that are saved in the animal welfare law. But it doesn't matter. There was also a falsehood here — in this case, Mr. Puy — in relation to which he declared himself unpunished, or declared himself uncontrastly, that since the Council of Galicia it had not been said that the doctors charged, the inspectors charged, for giving up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u53	Quiet, quiet, please. There's a lot of murmuring in the room, and we must respect who's in the use of the word. For everyone. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u54	There's a decision by the Galician Board that if you issue that order, and that gave rise to a judgement by the National Audience, which is commented on in a book called Crisis, social rights and equality, it's in Tirant Lo Blanch and it's from 2013. It's true that I went to comment on it, but I'm telling you this so that you have the most localized reference. You spoke in the morning of women only to refer to birth. It's completely obvious all the circumstances that still separate women and men from us in many areas of life; among others, a 22% wage gap, or working time, a greater precariousness, about 50%. In the morning, we have already referred to the question of labour, the question of precariousness, the question of equality and the question of the need to put more means to fight against gender-based violence not only when it occurs, but, above all, with a preventive nature to prevent it from occurring. You talked about the electric ticket for the second time. Last year, and during this year, we've raised his papers several times, showing him how you sent the money from the electric ticket to buy bulbs to light up Gaiás. So please don't lie to the fate of that electric ticket. You were asked for housing, and they were looking for housing for young people. Well, look, he's got a huge housing park in Tinería, in Lugo, empty, with flats ruining and you don't put in circulation. Do it, don't wait any longer. From his "Depredation and entrepreneurship law" we've been working on before. It's a law that simply seeks to facilitate the multinationals of wind, mining, etc., the suppression of environmental procedures, the suppression of controls, the bad sale of our territory. Of course we're against them doing that! Look, he spoke before corruption his parliamentary spokesman. It's normal for them to talk so much, because they have a master, they're corruptologists. And they didn't explain it too well, either, with their respect to the law and their respect to the judges, then they started to hammer it with the hard drive of the computers or how they paid their own national headquarters. Or, better, they did explain it by saying that there were gray areas to be taken advantage of. I'm going to end up with a single question I couldn't figure out earlier, which is language. In the language I will say nothing more — or one — you are also failing to fulfil your obligations at international level when you repeatedly fail to comply with your Multilingualism Plan and with the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. That is how the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe continually ditamines it. Maybe if I did that, I'd learn. If we had a language plan according to the European Charter of Languages in teaching and out of teaching, then I don't know... is that we're still curious about it: why don't you say "crise" and say "crisi"? And we don't know why he says "milk" and not "milk" -- but it's not like you say it, it's normative, it's also a law, it's fair because you wrote it -- it's "milk" and not "milk." And it's just that every time we buy a card of German milk, you put "100 percent gaga". No, milk is male! And then it's weird to have to come here... the cow produces milk, of course! [[Murmurs.]] Anyway... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u55	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u56	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u57	Silence! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u58	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u59	I'm sorry. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u60	They comply with their own laws and let those who have other values, that we have other principles, propose their modification to have a more just society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u61	Thank you, Mr. Villares. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u62	I don't know if it has values, but the courage to say some things has a lot of you. [[Applause]] Let's see, I think, as we're approaching the end, we're going to celebrate a good news. The spokesman for the main opposition group ended its first intervention by making a proposal, which was that all the opposition join in a health cord against the PP — that we are evil — in the streets and in Parliament to work together. Well, the response of the groups that made that offer to them was enthusiastic, all of them obviously said they were going to take their orders. And I, in any case, recommend that you present a motion for a resolution, because we shall vote for it anyway. Because, as the president said, I think while you're the leader of the main opposition group we have rope for a lot of time. [[Applause]] More seriously, in this debate we have also seen what the political priorities of each one are. And, of course, they all also agreed in praise to the General Secretariat of the Middles of the Union. It's the only compliment the self-government has. Obviously, the Bloc said the People's Party was dedicated to blah, blah, blah, blah... and, at last, it talks about respect. I'm not going in on it. But it's obvious that you too follow the race, race, race of sovereignty. And, as you will understand, we're not going to follow them there. Which doesn't mean we're not willing to talk to the Block, to reach agreements with the Block. And whenever they propose something that is good for Galicia, of course — it comes from the Block or from any other group — that we will wake it up. The priorities? In an interview before the elections—it was published in La Region, a newspaper read in the Barco— Mr. Louis Villares said that "our first measure"—when the elections won, which did not happen— "will be a decree of minimum social guarantees to ensure the end of the rejections". This was the priority you presented to the elections. Well, since the beginning of the legislation, his group has brought the rejections to the debate once in November 2016 — therefore, almost a year ago — once again. The counsellor was questioned, and since then nothing has been brought back to the full or to the Commission. It was an emergency, but it's been a year — the last year — and they haven't done anything. [[Murmurs.]] What did we do? Well, look, we've been running from the Government the Plan is re-enacting, from attention to victims of evictions. Last month, the Board approved the opening of six new offices for this programme and the extension of the scope of action to victims of non-rentful evictions. Over the past two years, between dwellings in the Union and houses handed over by Sareb and the banks and the Empty Housing Program, more than 150 homes have been allocated to families who needed them. And in May of this year, the Government of Greece launched the Realuga Programme, which funds the rehabilitation of empty homes in exchange for a commitment by the owner of the cedelas for social rent. And while you guys weren't doing anything, what happened? For example, in the Coruña or Ferrol, where The Tides rule, they paralyze the Empty Housing Program. The difference is that for us priorities lead us to action, and for you priorities are the voters; and, as I said before, with the attempt to denigrate by missing the truth — as I have just demonstrated again with regard to the subject of rejections — about the work being done by the PP. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Government has priorities — and we are with them and we will reflect this in the motions for resolutions —: to boost the economy and employment with new tax reductions with incentives to invest in rural economic activities, to invest in forest management societies, to invest in rehabilitation in historical helmets, to invest in business soil, with the objective of dynamicing the economy and continuing to gain productivity. The two spokespersons, both the socialist and the Marea, said that the fact that Galicia, for the first time in 2016, was in the highest position of convergence with the Spanish economy in terms of per capita GDP was devalued by the fact of demography. Obviously, it's the result of a set of productivity increases and a smaller demography. And the question I ask you is, Is that bad? Is it bad that lowering the population increases per capita GDP? I think it's a symptom that the Spanish economy is doing much better. Demography, as we all know — and there is nothing more than comparing the GDP of a small country with a large country — is usually correlated with higher GDP. We're talking about GDP per capita, and what it means is that with fewer people working, because of a demographic issue, the Greek economy is much more productive. And this is good news, very good news. Obviously, if the population and GDP per capita were to grow further, we would grow much more in GDP. That would be the ideal world. But the truth is, while productivity is growing, we can also look at the demographic problem with more optimism. We continue with reforms in the field of employment and also in the field of demographics, with the extension of the Welcome Card up to the age of three and the reduction in the rates of children's schools. We will create the first campus of vocational training and a university excellence programme. They'll increase the dependents attended to 60,000 by now next year. We bet on public health with investments in each of the hospitals, including each and every one of the comarcas, which denies the wishful thinking about their closure that makes the opposition. We bet on intermodal stations, and a public job offer that reaches the number of 14,000 jobs to leave the interim rate around 7%. So we're doing what we promised in the campaign and we're acting accordingly. And by the way, it was the autonomous community that least owed itself to all of them. Because you're still on the subject of obeisance. The Tide criticizes us because we owe ourselves a lot. If we accepted their amendments, we would have 1 billion more direct debt. And they don't remember, when they talk about 7,000, which, of these 7,000, 3,000, are the ones that let us pay for the Bipartite in 2008 and 2009, and that we're still abetting through debt because you've spent it and you didn't even have a debt in the corresponding operation of the Greek economy. You know it's like that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Do we compare with Norway? Of course! An international prestigious organization evaluates public health systems and says Spain has the world's fourth best public health system, alongside Norway, Finland or Sweden. And it turns out that all the reports we know from Spain say that public health is above average. So we look at Sweden or Norway with pride because we're maintaining a great public health. I understand that this data undoes what they've been saying eight years, that we're going to dismantle public health. Well, we're hurting him! We're in the fourth country of the world with the best public health above average. And, of course, I understand that this data to you... because... It's not that we're Social Democrats. What is neither social democrat nor anything else is public health, because public health is everyone's. Capability agreed? Look, when we were in the opposition, about 50 Bipartite bills, we at 20 didn't make them amend to the whole; and another 20, 50, we voted for them. You have never supported a law that has been introduced lately. I want to say about the will agree that, look, the will we have everything. In the previous plenary session we voted on a law which, after the presentation procedure, had agreed to 80% of the joint, and voted against. We put forward a proposal for a business implementation law and we were already put together a collective against it before it even changed. We're doing the Port Bill Project, and the three groups with a withdrawal amendment. And now, when I was in the process of public allegations, not only did they assemble demonstrations but they said the Health Act had to be removed. Well, the will of his dialogue does not remain very explicit with his performance. We — I insist — continue to practice dialogue. In the past legislation we passed six laws at the initiative of the opposition; and when we were in the opposition, zero. And, look where, in this legislation, we have passed more non-propositions of the opposition than most put forward. And, well, we'll keep talking, not because sometimes it's very interesting but simply because, far from applying the knee, we understand that our democratic obligation is to speak and accept what we understand improves the country. [[Applause]] I want to finish by talking about a question that I think is important. Cataluña's supposed independence has a great impact on Galicia. It has institutional effects, has social effects — in the 71,500 Greeks living in Catalonia — it has an economic impact encrypted around EUR 1 billion/year. And, of course, it is affecting the Spanish economy, the uncertainty about the risk premium and the uncertainty about the adoption of budgets. But it's also very interesting to know the attitudes and political positions of this House's groups — especially when they call us extreme right and when they tell us that we are unable to distinguish what is fair from what is unfair. You, who criticise the democratic quality of Spain, find that they advocate that a Parliament should give an hour's time to amend a referendum law when we are told that we are attacking democracy when we do the urgent procedure with a week's amendments. They approve of an urgent procedure against the Constitution, against the Statute, against the report of the House's lawyers and against the report of the statutory guarantees. Apart from this, it turns out that the majority groups close Parliament and do not exercise control over the opposition. We're currently in a situation where there's no control over the House's legal services, there's no external control over Catalan statutory bodies, there's no judicial control, there's no control over the Constitutional Court either, and that's an example of democracy, because then they make a referendum where there's no electoral assembly, there's no census, there's no interveners...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u64	...there are no guarantees, the rules are changed the day before and the results are not known yet, which you don't know who's telling them. You support this as an example of democratic quality, help and support it. Today a judge in special services said the street is the only voice of people. Well, this has another name in political philosophy, it's called "decisionism," which is to identify the people on the street with the state, which is made up of state. It is the people who first create the state and then choose the leader — the führer —. You know perfectly well what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u66	This isn't democracy, this has another name. When the Constitution was approved and the term "nationalities" was included, the constitutional rapporteur for the Catalan minority explicitly said in the constituent debate that "the term nationalities gave a new meaning to Spain's unity by being a recognition of the multinational reality of the Spanish nation and an end point to old domestic disputes." The UCD representative said that the term "nationality" was accepted as a historical gesture of reunion and reconciliation. They practiced dialogue and came to the covenant. And twenty-five years later, Roca himself said: "Consent is not the expression of any weakness, but the result of the conviction that the great challenges can only be overcome from the great political and social majority. If this were so, constitutional reform...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u68	...it wouldn't be a problem. If the consensus is not built, neither reform nor many other things can be effectively addressed." In those terms, we practice dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u69	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Close the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let's close the debate about the state of Autonomy. After a year of this legislation, I think we all learn things from others, we all learn the priorities of others, and we all have a certain idea of what the different groups that we try to represent Galicia think about the current situation. If the Greeks could see us, it would be clearer what everyone thinks. And that would certainly be good for everyone. Because I think there are things that have been said this afternoon, and the government intervention this morning, which are sufficiently explicit, and I regret that we are not able to know exactly what we all said. It's very clear. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs Pontón, I am still the Pearls. I'm no longer a child, as you can imagine. You think he's still from Chorente in Sarria. You know that in the villages some things could not be taught; for example, we had no kind of Greek. You did, we didn't have a Greek class because in my time, we didn't learn Greek. There are some smarts, as you know, that now they know very much about Greek, of course. We learned Greek with grandmothers and people on the street, and we're very pleased to be born in a village. Probably, if I hadn't been born in a village, I wouldn't understand this country as I try to understand it. There are other people, ladies and gentlemen, who studied, who went to foreign universities, who play instruments, and of recognized prestige. [[Applause]] There are others who even had the chance to make an opposition because they paid their parents and mothers. There are even others who put on huge toes and say, "You do, you don't." Anyway, there are other stilts to which it seems to them that village boys are of lesser intellectual nature. But well, look, Your Honor, you know what they taught me in the villages? That it's not the same to tell the truth as to lie. That's what some people think is complex, it's true. No, I don't think it's complicated. In the villages they also taught us, even though you can understand the opposite, that we must be humble. That's right, you have to be firm when you think you're right. But you have to be humble, and when you tell one to direct the Holy Inquisition, you have to shut up. When one tells him he has a "loved leader", he has to fit in. And when one no longer tells you it's extreme right, it's extreme right, because we also have to fit, Mrs. Pontón. It is a pity that, since in his village they surely taught him to have respect for others, I had forgotten that respect which in villages still has pure vigilance every day. Not me, Your Honor, I still have respect for the others. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, Your Honor, we have been taught humility and the truth of lies. "We've lost a job at sea," said Pontón. And it turns out that in the sea we have a positive balance in employment, in billing, a net positive balance, as you can see. "The laughs are getting worse and worse," said Mrs. Pontón. We've recovered about 8 million square meters of surface, we're going to recover by 2020 another 10 million square meters of surface, we've invested about 5 million in 170 projects run by confrries, and we've got the best quality of water since there's measurements. But he even came to say that emigration in Galicia had begun since 1990; that is, about when Fraga arrived, to understand. Because before there was no emigration, of course, before there were... there were people who could tell you what it looks like. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Emigration since 1990 was 544,000 people and immigration, that is, the people who entered Galicia, 728,000. Positive balance, Galicia has won, from the point of view of those who go out and of those who enter, 183,000 people. And you keep going, and they'll go through all the legislation. Because if you couldn't talk about emigration, what would you talk about, Mrs. Pontón? Can't you see the speech falls? If you couldn't say that because of the PP people had to emigrate from Galicia, they would have dropped their speech. Then you have to say it and say it and say it... and then remind me that I am a child of the Pears. Of course I'm a child of the Pearls. But at the Pearls we were taught the basic rules at that unitary school where we were all going. And there was a wax and I told them to add up and stay are different things, Mrs. Pontón. But of course, you kept saying, "The photo." Man, with all due respect. But are you really going to try to trick someone by talking about a photo of the Federation of Private Clinics in Spain, who invite me to give a conference at a Madrid hotel with 350 people and it turns out that I wanted to put the agenda in order for no one to understand? It's a surprising thing, Mrs. Pontón. [[Laughter]] But are you really serious about this? [[Applause]] I think the previous one to me at the conference was my colleague, President of the Extreme Board, Guillermo Fernández Bara, in the same place. [[Applause]] But it turns out that there's nothing going on, of course, because the left can give lectures where you want them. [[Murmurs.]] But look, when you pressed the "yes" button to the PSOE and BNG budget, the health concerts went up by 44%. And when we approved the budget from 2009 to 2016, health concerts dropped by 8.76%. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, do you understand how there is intelligence in Chorente and in the Pearls? One, one intelligence to try not to miss reality, and another, one intelligence to make a parallel reality. No, don't worry that I'm not going to accuse you of what you accuse me of, because if not, we'd be equaling ourselves, and I have no interest. You told me it was extremely right. First he said extreme right and now he said extreme right. The truth is, that "extreme right" was from Mr. Zapatero. It must be that, as you ruled with him so long, they liked the denomination. But now that they don't need them, they call them extremely right. I mean, 47.8% of Galicia is extremely right, Ponton says. And then he says I manipulate. But, ladies and gentlemen, do you think that the Greeks are fools? The Greeks don't believe in you, you know why, Mrs. Pontón? Because he puts before ideology and not the Greeks, he's more interested in nationalist ideology than the Greeks, he's more interested in maintaining his nationalist mantras than the Greeks who are on the street every day and who have to work and get up and get to the end of the month. That's the big difference, and that's why we, ladies and gentlemen, are still voting for us. [[Applause]] Your Honor, come here saying that I committed myself to giving 100 million euros to private health... are you really not going to apologize for this? No, I know you don't dare look at me. But are you really not going to apologize for saying that I committed money to private health? But don't you realize that you in this case are betting with Mr. Villares? And it's not up to him. It doesn't suit you because BNG is a much more solid and rather serious party than we're seeing what the Podemos Tides consist of, Mrs. Pontón. It's a lot more solid and a lot more serious. [[Murmurs.]] And as one of the BNG told me a short time ago, "The question has become clear: those who weren't from the BNG have gone, and now we're the ones who are unique from the BNG." Well, he's right. But, now, to draw on this kind of insult and slander, Mrs. Pontón... gives me the feeling that the BNG should call it in order. Because you can't say that the president of the board is committing crimes, as if he were a Mr. Villares any more. [[Murmurs.]] Look, with all due respect, about the Galician Radio Television Company, do you want me to read the papers again, the newspapers on the right dates, to say, "The news is about the BNG and the programs are about the PSOE." It's published!... Galician Radio Television Company, is published. I recall questions of control of the BNG spokesperson to the president of the board telling him that he was manipulating Galician Radio Television Company. What can I expect? If, for you, the Socialist Party, in the government of what they were, was manipulating television, what are you going to tell me? [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Pontón, I don't expect a lot of things about this matter, but allow me, first of all, to say that this autonomous channel is Spain's largest audience channel, above TV3, and TV3 has eight channels and this one has two channels. And TV3 is in constant public deficit and this one is adjusting to the budget, Mr. Leicega. You tell us to support and look for another director. First, we had one, and now we want another and we want to vote. But it feels like we're not going to agree! If you want to vote what you consider appropriate, but will you agree? If we agree, I think it's all right. But I don't think so, and I'm never going to accept that I'm told and that there are lessons of objectivity in the TVG after the background I've just reported. Mr. Leicea, you say we like social democracy. Some things, yes. The problem is that you abandoned social democracy. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, ask Mr. Solchaga and Mr. Solbes whether or not they have abandoned social democracy, ask him. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ask him, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] You know I do. There are two types of PSOE: the PSOE that ruled — a government agent who knows how to rule because he has already done so — and the new Socialist Party, which is obsessed with the Podemos tides, or with Podemos in Madrid. And, of course, the problem is that you are now lost. You'd better find your place. But, look, I have the sentences here — I won't read them because you will understand that you will make a very important decision in the coming days — Mr. Bono's sentences, Mr. Felipe González's sentences, Mr. Alfonso Guerra's phrases. Is that the Socialist Party or is it not? It's just that I agree with these. I agree with former President González, absolutely. And I agree with what Vice President War says. I know the tides are laughing, but I agree. Can't we talk about this Socialist Party now? I think so, Mr. Leicega. So when you tell me about social democracy, set me an example for Portugal. What are you asking me? What are we trying to reduce wages by 56% to match the Portuguese Social Democracy? There's the Communist Block of the Left. Yes, it's not government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Like it's not in the government of Portugal or the Communist Block of the Left? It is supporting the government in a continuous and constant manner. I didn't think that Podemos de Portugal, who accept that a Portuguese covers 56% less than a Greek, is social democracy. Well, that social democracy doesn't interest us, Mr. Leicega, it doesn't interest us at all. Look, Mr. Leicega, as I agree with Felipe González, Alfonso Guerra and Mr. Bono, you will understand, Mr. Leicega, that the time to reform the Statute of Self-Government is not this, it is not this in any case. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] At the time of joining forces to restore constitutional order, a historical nationality says it wants to reform the Statute of Self-Government... It doesn't count on me for that. We rebuild the constitutional unity of the Democrats and then we will continue to speak, but this is not the time to talk about it. The moment, to speak of this, is to say where the Socialist Party is, whether it's accepting the message from the head of state or not. This is an important moment, Mr. Leicega, because the Socialist Party has always accepted the message from the head of state. And he only gave two messages, one in 1981 and the second yesterday, in 2017, two messages. They were the same. It is true that, as Socialist François Mitterrand said, there are two kinds of coups of state. The coup d'état that lasts one day — the coup d'état of 1981 — and the coup d'état that lasts for months and years, which is what is happening with the independent nationalist politicians of Catalonia. I'm not saying it, François Mitterrand said it. And what is happening right now is that there is a continued coup d'état in the institutions of the Generalitat of Catalonia, and we must make it clear. And if anyone wants to call me irresponsible, call me. I take what I just said because I believe it firmly, and many socialists too. That is why, I do not think, Mr Leicea, that we are getting up this session saying that we are going to reform the Statute. We're going to defend constitutional order, we're going to restore democracy everywhere in our country, we're going to find solutions to a first-order territorial problem -- the most important since the Civil War -- and we're going, Your Honor, to continue in constitutional democracy and in Galicia's Autonomic Statute. Mr. Leicega, with all due respect, you can say what you consider appropriate in relation to the Health Law. You know perfectly well that what I'm accused of is not going to do. But, besides, you know, it's just that it tells you, out of nocturnality. I'm not going to decrease an apex to the hospital service portfolio, in any case. I'm not going to lower an apex a service in a comarcal hospital. On the contrary, I'll try to expand it and improve it. I will not diminish the quality or the benefit or the rights of any citizen. I'm going to increase the rights, increase the benefits and increase the infrastructure. He knows it perfectly, and that's why it hurts me especially to say it. [[Applause]] First they told me that they wanted to go to Madrid and now they tell me that they won't listen to me in Madrid. I'd like them to say exactly what I have to do to guide myself. But as far as the Atlantic motorway was concerned, we had three objectives: to manage the highway, to stop paying for that so intelligent agreement that nationalists made with you to pay more than 60 million euros, which we have already paid, at a fee of a state highway, and thirdly, to get the transfer. Of the three goals we've got two, which are cogesting the highway and stopping paying 400 million euros that we had to pay until 2048. And besides, we've got something important, Mr. Leicega: that you and Mrs. Pontón want the transfer of the highway, that's very important. It is that in 2008 — in the Journal of Sessions — you and Mrs Pontón voted against the transfer of the motorway. But, Mr. Leicega, let's accept the reality of the facts, nothing happens. You voted against the transfer of the highway. I know it hurts, but the truth, even if it hurts, you have to say it. You have to say it, Your Honor. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You say, Mr. Leicega, that we should be more heard in Madrid, and that if we had so much power in Madrid, they should give us the highway, etc. Do you know how many highways and highways are requesting at the moment, taking advantage of the country's independent drift? It's just that you should say, "Look, we're not going to give up that transfer, but maybe we're going to give you a thought when we ask for it." Do you agree to transfer the highways that pass to the autonomous community and come from other communities? I won't ask questions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Leicega, for asking you that question. But sometimes I'm surprised at certain ideas. You were rapporteur for the transfer of traffic to Galicia at the Congress of Deputies. At that time, the Socialist Government was supported by nationalists. You went there and asked for the transfer of traffic. The Socialist Government's answer was no. Yeah, you see, we're tied up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm still asking for it. [[Applause]] What am I supposed to do? [[Laughter]] But there's a big difference, Mr. Leicega: that we can save 400 million euros. You were going to represent the president of the board, that's true. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Leicega won't let us talk, so we can't talk. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u71	Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u72	But we'll keep talking about it, no doubt about it. But, as you will see, in a year that we managed to co-exist the highway and save 400 million euros, that this is an outrage for Galicia — told by the socialists and nationalists who forced us to pay the fares of the highway and were against the transfer — it is at least surprising. It's true that it's important to have values, it's true. Of the values that the spokesperson for En Marea, as I don't know what he has, I daren't say whether they like me or not. But I remember clearly, when you started this -- which was a much more prudent person -- that you said in an interview -- I'll read it the other day: I'm a constitutional activist, and I know that in my party there are people who don't like to say this, but I'm a constitutional activist. Why did you change that courage, Mr. Villares? Now why don't you join the Constitution? But can't you see that you could come here with Mr Coscubila from the Catalonian Parliament and say you don't agree with this? It's from Podemos, too. It's okay with him. Were you going to open a file? Were they gonna throw it out of the game? Anova, who's next to him, would not only keep beating him but would definitely throw him out of the scene. [[Applause]] Mr. Villares, why don't you defend what I was defending before? You defend what I defended before, because they will respect it inside and outside. Because if you change your mind constantly, you don't respect it inside or we don't respect it outside. That's why there are differences in my party on some issues. I keep my posture. There are comrades who agree and others who do not, but I maintain my position. When I was in the opposition, I was told that the opposition had to do it differently. I remember you very much about this matter. You're now in the opposition, they'll tell you a lot of these things. But you keep your principles if you want to remain a spokesman for this parliamentary group. I don't care if you go on, I'm telling you. I can't tell you that I'm worried about your spokesperson, but, if you can go on, for us, well. And I say it in absolute calm and with absolute courtesy. You keep saying we give 40 billion euros to banks and points, and it doesn't matter. A gentleman who should know, at least 28 business law issues, doesn't care. I mean, what we did was secure the savings deposits and say we gave 40 billion euros to the banks. And you go there and you keep poisoning people. What would happen if there was a corralite, after the Banco de España was looking elsewhere continuously and steadily, after they were allowed to sell, at the time of the Socialist Party, to 70,000 Greeks and Greeks? After all this, if people get to the bank and can't take that money away, what would happen? So what did we do? Injecting to secure the deposits of savers as a result of a disaster of the banking system and savings banks in Spain during the socialist period. That's exactly what we did. Look, I have memory. And for historical memory, too. And I'm still saying that there should be no difference in obtaining nationality with the children and descendants of the emigrants who left because of the Civil War and those who left before. I believe that those who were the result of an economic problem should have the same rights as those who went through a political problem. That's what I think, and that's what I say. And that's what I said in the opposition and what I say now in the government. I know that you don't care, because you don't care to say that GDP, per capita income, if divided... Mr. Puy, a public farm professor, said very well. Look, if we are able to export much more than we were exporting with less active population, if we are able to improve our gross domestic product, if we are able to make Galicia's gross domestic product greater than in 2008, when we were in full economic goodness, is that not to highlight? There's another teacher who asks a different question. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But less bad than accepting that the German gross domestic product is above the year 2008. [[Laughter]] There were many teachers in Galicia who said that would be impossible. [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, well, in the first quarter of this year, we're over the year 2008. [[Applause]] It remains within its principles and values and says that we dedicate the money of the electric ticket to the luminaries of the City of Culture, and it remains so bellicose, goes to the stage and even feels happy. We had a credit for the electric ticket. [[Laughter]] We met all the requests that were made, and what we did with that money was we saved on the electric bill that the Greeks pay through the Galician Union. That's what we did and it seems wrong to you. Let's keep saving the money from the Greeks, because for us the money from the Greeks is sacred. And finally, I understand that you, since you teach everyone, say that milk is male. All right. And then the brand is "a hundred percent gaga." That's wrong. But don't you distinguish what's a brand from what's a product? Don't you distinguish "a hundred percent gaga" from the milk, from the product? [[Strong murmurers.]] No, that doesn't distinguish him. [[Applause]] But at the height of culture and, above all, at the height of intellectual superiority, it turns out that I am rebuked because I don't know where The Boat is. And besides, I resented myself because I wasn't able to distinguish that the young lady was what was destroying the brown boy. Mr. Villares, you can't be so smart. What's destroying the brown is the bird, not the quilt, Mr. Villares. You can't be so smart at all. [[Strong murmurers.]] You can't be so smart at all, Mr. Villares. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u73	Quiet, please! Quiet, we're done. Take it easy. Quiet, quiet! Quiet, we're done. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, there's no time in this intervention. Don't ask me for time, Mr Bará. But I suppose the president is about to finish. So let's take it easy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. " Sanxenxo's is a coup d'état, an autolope" — May 30, 2017, tweet by Louis Villares. For, finally, this includes democracy, Mr Villares, that a party that has lacked a few hundred votes for the absolute majority cannot rule, and yet Catalan independence can utterly destroy coexistence, laws, constitution and the state of autonomy. There's a big difference between you and me. For you probably the most important leader in Catalonia right now is Mr. Rufián. For me, the most important leader in Catalonia was Mr. Roca. So the difference between you and me in relation to Catalonia is quite obvious. If for you Mr. Rufián is the leader of Catalonia, for me he is Mr. Roca Junyent. You'll understand that between Mr. Roca and Mr. Rufian there's as much distance as you and me. But finally, there you are. Reconciled with your personal ideology. Don't copy from anyone, say what you think. Maybe it's from En Marea and We can say what you think. And if not, it doesn't deserve military punishment in that political organization. If someone in the People's Party, as far as he thinks, is expelled from the party, he doesn't deserve to be a military in that party and he has to go. It's okay. Mr. Villares, do you think where you're going after you leave this? It's very important, I assure you. We have to think about it every day, this is a matter of time — in my case, of course. It's better if someone reminds me that the Greeks are still voting for us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what is happening in other communities, Galicia has a stable government for four years, and it has the only concerns we have this morning, which are the progress of the country and the well-being of its citizens. We don't have any more. The budget that we present next October 19 will see how innovation will be one of the most growing shares in economic assumptions; you will see the public employees as we assume the commitment of the general negotiating table to grant 14,000 stable jobs for health, education and public services; you will see the Greeks as in January 2018 we have four times lowered the tax: deductions in income tax, deductions in property tax, elimination of the tax of documented legal acts for those who want to invest in industrial polygons, for those who want to invest in forest, in the agricultural sector or for those who want to invest in a housing or building in a historic building, that of the Tinería or any other. Galicia will advance the fulfilment of the target of 60,000 dependents, which we had for four years, half of the legislation. And we're going to consolidate ourselves as the autonomous community that gives most support to mothers and parents to have children, with the Welcome Card for rents of 22,000 euros for three years and keeping the Welcome Card a year for current incomes. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective is that Galicia grows and Galicia creates jobs, that Galicia is controlling public accounts and paying less for public debt and paying the bills. The objective and reality is that Galicia is exporting more than ever and investing more than ever in innovation; that we are recovering automotive, naval and textile; that quality in agriculture, sea and industry is still our identity signs; that Galicia opens up to new sectors and receives new investments. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that Galicia is improving transport infrastructure, which is doing metropolitan transport and discreet transport better and cheaper. The reality is that Galicia is renewing hospitals, making public hospitals new and expanding those that are there, and finishing the health centers. The reality is that we're incorporating technology into health, we're downgrading waiting lists and expanding the rights of the Greeks. The reality is that we have more teachers per student, more languages and more computers in class. The reality is that Galicia is a place where the biggest are respected. The reality is that the parents and mothers who want to have children are more supported, and that Galicia boasts of its culture and receives more tourists than ever. That's the reality, ladies and gentlemen. That's the goal of the debate in the state of Autonomy, and that's what we've been thinking. [[Applause]] And for all this and even more, Galicia has the ability to put on new challenges, and the Union will be beside the Greeks to try to achieve them; first, by fulfilling our word and, second, by fulfilling our duty. Galicia defines effort, work, coexistence, respect for people, people who don't feel like us, people who think differently, people who don't agree with the Government of the Union and people who mostly support that government. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Union has no more aspiration than to be the reflex of Galicia, and Galicia has different thoughts, different feelings, and they are all Germans and they all have to protect. That's why we practice original Welshism, not copying nationalism. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't want an imitation nationalism to see that everything that happens outside Galicia is the most important thing and that we're always here under the rest of us. No, ladies and gentlemen, the independence we aspire to is the independence of the boys and girls to get out of their family when they find a job. The independence we aspire to is, ladies and gentlemen, to be more and more independent because we have higher incomes, and our democracy is the one that we give ourselves to each other, not the one that comes to us to break the rule of turn, the democracy of all. Our statement is of coexistence among the Greeks. The Greeks are never going to split up, nor are we ever going to split up, because we have no interest in dividing up or separating up. The Greeks may argue, the Greeks may disagree, but of course, we're not going to split up or split up. [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, when I gave my speech in a debate like this two years ago, I didn't know if it was going to be the last or not, not because it depended on whether the Greeks voted for us and that the Greeks would give us an exceptional majority again, but because I didn't even know if I would become or not a candidate again. And today I am here as President of Galicia again, thanks to those Greeks, thanks to those people who voted for us, thanks to a party that supported me. And that's why I tell all the autonomous communities and I tell the rest of Spain with total humility that we will not let go, that we are going to be a hundred percent Greek. And that's not going to diminish an apex to our Spanish nationality and that, in no case, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to forget. You know why? Because I know why we were chosen by the Greeks, because I know why we were elected by the Greeks. And I will not fail my promise or my commitment. And, as I said that day and butter, there is no greater honor than serving Galicia, none. And if you want to know how I'm going to serve Galicia while I'm president of the Union, it will be with these two mandates: with the mandate of the Spanish Constitution and with the mandate of the Statute of Self-Government. With these two mandates, I will serve Galicia to the end, with the Constitution and the Statute. [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2017-10-04-DSPG042.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. When the debate is closed — if you will excuse me for a second — I will inform you of a matter which is of interest to all your ladies. Parliamentary groups may submit up to 40 motions for resolutions per group, referred to in the Rules of Procedure, to the broad lines of general policy, not local, of simple wording and which cannot give rise to a separate vote within each proposal. The deadline will be until 10.30 a.m. on Thursday, October 5. The general record of the House is where they should be presented. And then... pardon a moment, silence, please, this is an important topic. [[Murmurs.]] Subsequently, the Bureau shall, at 12 noon, proceed to the qualification and distribution of the groups of all the proposals admitted. So, the deadline for the submission of the proposed transactions and the request for separate groupings or votes from the proposals will end on Thursday 5 October at 22.30 p.m., which will be qualified by the Bureau the following day, Friday 6 October, at 9.30 a.m. Nothing more and thank you very much. The session is suspended until Friday, 6 o'clock in the morning.
